 Mid-States PLC
Chairman's and Managing Director's Statement 3
Dear Shareholder
This is the first Annual Report of Mid-States PLC (Mid-States  or the Company ) since our appointment respectively as Chairman and
Managing Director. We report to you on the significant developments in the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group ) during and since the
financial year ended 30 June 2008, and what we believe to be its promising prospects for the future.
Background
As most shareholders will know, the Group owns intellectual property relating to atmospheric chemistry and specifically to the control or
eradication of pathogens through the open air factor , scientifically known as the hydroxyl radical. With this intellectual property, the Group
has developed a method of achieving the high levels of natural disinfection, that exist in the fresh air, within enclosed rooms. The result of this
development is the Group's groundbreaking air disinfection device, the AD.
The current AD product has a proven and scientifically established ability to kill viral, bacterial and fungal pathogens, including some 
non-vegetative spores, with a very high degree of efficacy. Further validation of this has been provided by results achieved last year at
Sunderland Royal Hospital. The hospital found that for 95% of the time a level of sterility equal to or better than that required of an operating
theatre, was being achieved with the AD deployed in an intensive treatment ward set aside for infectious patients suffering from, for example,
Clostridium difficile. The implications of these results obtained under severe hospital conditions are, we believe, remarkable. 
The Group expects that the results from Sunderland Royal Hospital and from other hospitals will generate further interest from the healthcare
market, as will the recent inclusion of the AD in the NHS Smart Solutions programme. Smart Solutions for Healthcare Acquired Infections is a
national programme run by TrusTECH
   
(the North West of England NHS Innovation Hub) on behalf of the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency
and supported by the NHS National Innovation Centre. Nine products have been competitively selected to participate in the programme from
approximately 250 applications submitted. The products will all be evaluated in a hospital setting and the programme will begin shortly.
Whilst the Group's principal focus continues to be on the healthcare market, building on the considerable success of the technology in the
clinical environment over the past year, there are also other significant opportunities for the underlying air disinfection technology in the
commercial and domestic markets, and the Group will pursue these in due course.
Ongoing strategy
Having now achieved entry of the AD into the UK hospital market, the strategy of the Group is to achieve penetration of that market and of
hospital markets in other selected countries, initially Ireland and Spain. The Group is already working with its business partners toward this,
including a focused effort to further develop successful UK hospital distribution arrangements with Sunlight Service Group Limited (a Davis
Group company, and the UK's leading provider of support services to the NHS). The Group will also continue to progress additional routes to
market. 
The future strategy for the AD business will be marketing led, and product development will continue to reflect identified customer and market
requirements, delivering clear customer benefits and building on the Group's biotechnology reputation. 
The basis of this marketing strategy will be the development of a rental model for the AD supported by a clearly focused sales and public
relations effort. Whilst the AD is a unique and potentially global product, we cannot assume it will sell itself. Therefore a concentrated effort is
being made to demonstrate the compelling economic benefits, quite apart from the human benefits, of the Group's technology. Investment in
additional sales and marketing resources will be made in 2009 to drive the sales, marketing and product development plans. 
The sales and marketing plans are focused on:
  Demonstrating the importance of the underlying science to decision makers and influencers.
  Demonstrating the efficacy of the AD in significantly reducing the incidence of healthcare acquired infections, thus improving the availability
of hospital beds as well as saving lives.
  Demonstrating the compelling financial benefits of deploying the AD in the healthcare environment.
New Products
The Company has designed a series of new products around the air disinfection technology used within the AD. These products are in the late
stage of development and include an automatic air quality sampler, a hand disinfection device and a water disinfection device. These new
products are mainly aimed at the healthcare and commercial/industrial markets. Mid-States PLC
4 Chairman's and Managing Director's Statement (continued)
Placing
Esmo Empresarial S.L. together with Bottin (International) Investments and David Macdonald, all existing shareholders of the Company, agreed
with the Board on the potential for the development of the AD and accordingly subscribed for a total of 30,000,000 ordinary shares at a price
of 10 pence per share in a placing completed following shareholder approval in March 2009. This raised approximately  2.8 million after
expenses for the future funding of the Company. It followed on the placing of 6,970,000 ordinary shares at a price of 16 pence per share raising
approximately  1.1 million after expenses completed in July 2008. The Board considers that the Group is now well funded for the ongoing
development and implementation of the strategy for the AD toward the increased penetration of the hospital and other markets in the UK 
and overseas. 
Board Changes
In addition to the cash investment, the placing of shares completed in March of this year brought additional experience and expertise to the
Board. Representatives of the major participant in the placing, Esteban Monegal and Javier Segura, joined the Board. Javier Segura was also
appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of the Group's operating subsidiaries on completion of the Placing.
Esteban Monegal held several executive positions in his thirty years at Enterprise Myrurgia, a cosmetics company, including the position of CEO
of the Myrurgia Group. In 2000 he sold that group and since then has built Esmo Empresarial S.L., an investment company, with interests in the
industrial, financial, real estate and international consultancy sectors.
Javier Segura has spent much of his career at Pirelli Telecom Cables & Systems Spa, being CEO of Europe, Middle East, India and Africa until
2004. He is Managing Director of MMSR Associates S.L., which dedicates its activity to international consultancy services in various sectors. 
In August 2008, Glenn Cooper was appointed a non-executive Director of the Company. Prior to joining Mid-States, Glenn held senior
positions within a number of groups including Henry Ansbacher & Co and Altium Capital and is the former Chairman of Zeus Capital. He has
also previously served as a Director of listed companies in the U.K. and U.S.A.
We would like to welcome them all to the Board.
In view of his recent move to the United States, David Plucinsky resigned as Chairman and as a Director of the Company on completion of
the Placing. The Board would like to thank David for his services to the Company over many years and wishes him well for the future. 
During 2008, Mike Heath, the Group's former Managing Director, and Paul Dumond and Christopher Mills, formerly non-executive Directors
of the Company, stepped down from the Board. The Board would also like to thank these former Directors for their services to the Company,
in the cases of Christopher and Paul over many years, and wishes them all well for the future. The Board also recognises the significant
contribution to the company of Bill Eberle who retired as a non-executive Director in 2007 and sadly passed away in 2008.
Former Engineering Division
During the latter part of 2008, the Group's engineering division, which supplied specialised metering equipment for the global automotive
market, experienced the increasingly severe pressures in that industry. The Board investigated a number of alternative courses of action to limit
any further losses from that division. Regrettably, in the current economic climate, it proved necessary to place the Group subsidiary, Inov8
Technologies Limited, through which this division operated, into administration. As a result of this action, future trading losses in, and funding
requirements for, the engineering division were eliminated. The appointment of administrators to that subsidiary did not and does not affect
the operation of the Company, the Group's environmental division and its air disinfection business, nor its other trading subsidiaries which are
separate legal entities and which continue to operate. 
Results for the Financial Year Ended 30 June 2008
Revenue for the financial year to 30 June 2008 was  4.9 million (2007:  4.1 million). The loss for the year before tax and exceptional items was
 4.5 million, and after exceptional items was  8.0 million (2007:  2.8 million). At 30 June 2008 the cash at bank was  0.3 million (2007: 
 2.4 million), and shareholders' funds were  1.2 million (2007:  8.3 million). 
As mentioned previously, subsequent to the balance sheet date, in March 2009, the Company completed a placing as a result of which cash
held by the Group at 31 March 2009 was  2.7 million. 
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend for the year ended 30 June 2008 (2007  nil).
The Financial Review on pages 6 to 8 provides further details of the results for the year. 5
Mid-States PLC
Trading on AIM
On 24 December 2008, the Company requested the suspension of its shares from trading on AIM pending publication of the Company's annual
accounts. We anticipate that the Company's shares will be restored to trading on publication of the Company's interim accounts for the period
ended 31 December 2008 in mid-May 2009.
Current trading and prospects
As the Group has now achieved entry of the AD into the UK hospital market, it is working to improve the initial revenues which, whilst
encouraging, have been relatively low and not yet begun to reflect the Board's expectations for the AD. The addition of new distribution
partners in other territories in 2009 is expected to provide significant additional revenues. The Board remains convinced by the potential of the
AD. The success of the AD at, for example, Sunderland Royal Hospital, and its selection for the NHS Smart Solutions programme supports
this belief. We look forward to reporting on progress later in the year.
John Bateson Andrew T onks
Chairman Managing Director