 Milestone Group Plc Report and Financial Statements Year ended 30 September 2010 3
Chairman's Statement
Foreword
It is with great pleasure that I deliver this statement on behalf of the Board and the management team. 2010 was a year of 
transition and while significant steps were taken to transforming the Company into a digital solutions provider, progress was 
slower than anticipated. As a result, for the year ahead the focus is to build on the progress made in 2010 and in particular, 
to develop the Group's revenue streams and to strengthen the Company's financial position.
Highlights of the year
  Financial highlights: revenue produced
  Investment in JumpStart Wireless Corporation and Ve Interactive Ltd
  Reseller agreements with JumpStart Wireless and Ve Interactive
  Key personnel: appointment of Guy van Zwanenberg as Finance Director
Financial Summary
The Group is pleased to announce it has generated sales from website and smart-phone application development in the 
year of  56,752 (2009: nil). However, the transition of the Company to a digital solutions provider has taken longer than 
anticipated which has impacted the Group's ability to generate revenues. In addition, as a result of the interest shown in the 
JumpStart technology, the Company has been targeting larger companies than initially planned, which has resulted in longer 
lead times due to their procurement processes being a minimum of 6-9 months. Despite generating its first revenues under 
the new strategy, the Group made a loss for the year of  1,225,480 (2009: loss of  392,002), due to the costs associated 
with establishing the business as a provider of digital solutions as well as the associated costs of dealing with historical 
issues.
Balance sheet net liabilities at the year end were  1,027,031 (2009: net liabilities  410,637). The significant increase was 
due to an increase in trade and other payables to  837,289 (2009:  373,424) and an increase in short term borrowings 
which increased to  392,300 (2009:  50,000). These increases were offset by an increase in the Group's assets as a result 
of its investments in JumpStart Wireless Corporation and Ve Interactive Ltd. However, since the year end, the Company's 
net liabilities have been reduced significantly through a number of equity placings which raised an additional  580,000, 
as well as the conversion of  150,000 of interest bearing loans and  25,000 of trade and other payables into new shares 
and also the issue of new shares to certain Directors in respect of  320,000 of accrued but unpaid remuneration and the 
settlement of a discretionary award, as explained in note 6 of the financial statements.
These results are presented under Adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (Adopted IFRS ). 
Investments and reseller agreements
In October 2009, the Company entered into two reseller agreements with JumpStart Wireless Corporation and Ve Interactive 
Ltd. 
The Company secured the distribution rights for JumpStart's mobile enterprise application software solutions in the UK in 
return for a strategic equity investment of  61,713 in JumpStart Wireless Corporation. JumpStart's innovative technology is 
a cost-effective solution to transform any mobile device into a reporting tool for employees working remotely from company 
premises. 
The Company also entered into a UK distribution agreement with Ve Interactive Ltd., a leading provider in the Online 
Shopping Cart Abandonment solutions market, in return for a strategic equity investment of  101,111. Online Shopping Cart 
Abandonment solutions are specialised, web-based solutions for e-vendors to improve sales conversion from abandoned 
shopping carts. Converting even a small percentage of those abandoned shopping carts into sales represents significant 
value to e-vendors. 4 Milestone Group Plc Report and Financial Statements Year ended 30 September 2010
Chairman's Statement | continued
Moving Forward
The technology and media sectors are changing rapidly, with new overlaps and opportunities being created at an 
unprecedented rate. The age of austerity  has forced businesses across Europe to rethink their IT and technology 
expenditure and strategies in order to leverage benefit from existing assets, or to purchase technology more wisely than 
before (Source: Digital Britain Report June 2009).
Additionally, the USA is investing heavily in cyber-security and technological growth, with the UK striving to become the 
global trend-setter for digital advancement (Source: Digital Britain Report June 2009). Milestone believes that these factors 
have combined to create an opportunity for a new breed of consulting and solutions business. It is the intention of Milestone 
that it will help traditional businesses invest in and exploit technology and digital media in new and strategically valuable ways 
to maximise business function efficiencies whilst retaining control of their cost base.
The Board believes that they have identified an opportunity in the market place where the specialist services offered, 
combined with the strengths of their strategic partnerships and network across business, could bring new possibilities to 
the Company. While a significant proportion of the targeted sales will focus on large companies, which inevitably have long 
lead times and procurement processes, the Company is also seeking to generate revenues from smaller clients in the nearer 
term. 
Management Changes
In December 2009, Guy van Zwanenberg, who has significant experience of growing small media businesses, agreed to 
step up to the Board as Finance Director and he is a valuable member of the team. 
During the year both John Sanderson and Mark Hargreaves stepped down from the Board. John had spent considerable 
time helping the transition of the business and felt that his skills were best suited elsewhere. Mark had joined the Board 
during the year to help cultivate the relationship with Ve Interactive but as Ve Interactive has grown, he felt he needed to 
focus solely on Ve Interactive Ltd and hence he has had to step down from the Board of Milestone, although he remains a 
firm ally of the Company.
Other matters 
A significant shareholder in the Company has made certain allegations against the Company and the Directors. For the 
avoidance of doubt, no formal proceedings have been brought against the Company or the Directors and the Board is of the 
opinion that such allegations made against the Company and the Directors are without any merit and would be vigorously 
defended in the event that any formal claim was forthcoming.
Funding
During the year the Company raised additional funds in order to meet its liabilities and to provide working capital through 
a combination of equity issues and new interest bearing loans. During the year 38,769,779 new shares were issued for a 
total consideration of  609,087, of which  411,000 was received in cash with the remainder being issued to existing and 
new creditors in exchange for goods or services received or in settlement of loan balances. In addition, the Company raised 
 307,500 through new interest bearing loans. 
Since the year end, the Company has raised  580,000 in cash through the issue of 49,765,030 new shares and converted 
 150,000 of interest bearing loans and  25,000 of trade and other payables into new shares in addition to issuing new shares 
to certain Directors in respect of  320,000 of accrued but unpaid remuneration and settlement of a discretionary award, as 
explained in note 6 of the financial statements. As a result, the Group's net liabilities have been reduced significantly since 
the year end. 
In the short term, Milestone's focus is on strengthening its financial position in order to create a stable position from which to 
grow the business and its revenues. As such, until such time as the Company is generating revenues on a consistent basis, 
the Company continues to be reliant on its ability to manage the timing of settlement of its liabilities and to raise further funds 
in the immediate to short term thereafter.  Milestone Group Plc Report and Financial Statements Year ended 30 September 2010 5
Potential further subscriptions
Protecting the interests of the Company's current shareholders is a priority and the Board's strategy is to seek to raise funds 
on a basis which is fair to all. 
During the year the Company has raised a series of subscriptions to support the Company's working capital requirements. 
The Board was pleased with the appetite which has been shown for these subscriptions and welcomes its new shareholders.
As set out above, the Company will likely have to raise further monies through subscriptions for new shares in the immediate 
to short term thereafter and as such, any enquiries in relation to participating in any further subscriptions should be sent to 
the Company Secretary at the registered address or emailed to him at graham.urquhart@milestonegroup.co.uk.
Outlook
The Board has a clear strategy for developing the Company and taking advantage of opportunities as they arise. The 
Company has developed a pipeline of potential sales and it is anticipated that this will lead to revenues within the next 12 
months. In addition, with the funds raised post the year-end, the creditor position has improved and while the Company is 
better placed to take advantage of the changing media landscape, in the short term it continues to be reliant on its ability to 
manage the timing of settlement of its current and future liabilities and to raise further funds in the immediate to short term 
thereafter.
In conclusion, we remain confident that during the coming year the Company will take advantage of the changes that have 
taken place and consolidate its position as a digital solutions provider. 
Deborah White 
Executive Director
28 February 2011