 Introduction
I am pleased to report on the consolidated results of Mondas for the year ended 30 April 2003. During
the second half year to 30 April 2003 Mondas PLC (the Group , the Company  or Mondas )
achieved its best operating results to date, posting record revenues and operating profits with
substantial cash generation. Investment in new products throughout the year has now been translated
into sales in both Financial and Education Markets. Complex large-scale systems have been
successfully deployed in both the Financial and Commercial Sectors. Our client list has continued to
expand both in quality and quantity, with major elements of the Credit Suisse group adopting our
flagship financial solution, Radica CAPS (Corporate Actions Processing System). All this was
accomplished despite the ongoing bear market and general economic slowdown and has reinforced
our position as a market leader in accounting solutions for the Further Education market, and in
Corporate Actions (CA ) processing in the Banking & Securities Sector.
Results
Turnover for the twelve months to 30 April 2003 was  3.713 million (2002:  3.742 million). The final six
months saw revenues grow by 12% to  2.260 million (2002:  2.012 million). This partially offset the
turmoil in the first six months of the year that adversely affected sales, particularly in the Financial
sector. Turnover was split approximately equally across the business units. Material licence and
service income from the major new contracts from financial institutions and final deliveries to Blue
Arrow Limited (Blue Arrow ) and GNI Limited (GNI ), contributed to the increased revenue in the
second half.
Our operating loss before goodwill amortisation and depreciation was  679,000 (2002:  416,000).
This was after a restructuring charge of  154,000 (2002:  180,000) reflecting reductions made to
address the continuously challenging economic environment. After allowing for this charge, the
second half saw an operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of  229,000
(2002:  84,000)
Despite the trading environment Mondas continued to invest in new products and during the year
increased its Research & Development investment to  616,000 (2002:  363,000). Major projects
included the development of Resource Learning Management System (LMS ) and the new version of
Radica CAPS.
Cash balances as at 30 April 2003 were  977,000 (2002:  1.420 million). During the second half
Mondas generated significant cash from operations in addition to the  350,000 net proceeds from the
December 2002 placing. The Company placed, at 23.5p per share, 1,004,749 new ordinary shares and
573,722 existing ordinary shares (resulting from the Reality warranty claim settlement, raising
 134,000. Such shares would otherwise have been cancelled and had been fully provided for at 30
April 2002). Both new and existing institutional investors, as well as members of the Board and staff,
participated in this placing. 
Trade debtors represented the last 19 days of sales based on billings in April 2003 (2002: 23).
Deferred revenues increased to  856,000 (2002:  796,000), and the order book stood at  900,000
(2002:  1.700 million). The change in the value of the order book primarily arises from significant
deliveries against the large order from Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited (Brewin Dolphin ) received
in April 2002.
Mondas PLC
Chairman's Statement
for the year ended 30 April 2003
3 Operations Review
The Company now comprises two discrete business units: one addressing the Banking and Securities
Sector (Banking and Securities Business Unit ) and one focused on the Public and Commercial
Sectors with Resource accounting and financial solutions (Resource Business Unit ). The Company
has been structured to withstand the uncertainties in the market and will continue to match resources
with market demands.
Banking and Securities Business Unit Review
We were delighted to announce in December 2002, that Mondas has signed an agreement with Credit
Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited (CSFB ), for the largest sale to date of Radica CAPS. The
contract for the initial phase, covers licences, project and support services for their UK, European and
possibly Asia Pacific based investment banking and securities businesses. This order is worth a
minimum of  640,000 to the Company, with CSFB having the option of confirming an additional
 450,000 of professional services work.
Following on from this, in April 2003, contracts were signed with Credit Suisse Asset Management
(UK) Holding Limited (CSAM ) worth a minimum of  112,000 for Radica CAPS. Both these sales were
won against strong competition from both European and U.S. vendors. 
In the period, the Corporate Actions team has been extended to bring additional skills and more
resources into the unit. The latest version of Radica CAPS was implemented at GNI, part of the Man
Group plc, where they stated that the Mondas team had managed the project extremely
professionally and proved its ability to deliver a quality, functionally rich CA solution . We believe this
has helped to demonstrate to the market that we are a credible vendor for increasingly larger
Corporate Actions projects.
In addition, client demands have led to enhancements addressing the specific needs of the global
investment banking arena which, the Directors believe, will expand the market for Radica CAPS to
many different institutions across the Banking & Securities Sector.
Mondas has continued to develop new solutions and deliver enhancements for its existing clients
such as Man Securities, Close Wealth Management and leading private client broker, Brewin Dolphin.
Mondas continues to look for new areas to deploy its technology and has now developed a complex,
workflow-based control system to monitor and reconcile disparate applications and replicate data.
The first deployment of this new system will be in the current reporting period and may trigger new
opportunities in due course.
Resource Business Unit Review
The Mondas strategy to take its accounting and finance solution, Resource 32000, into larger
commercial organisations was validated by the successful implementation of the Credit Management
system for Blue Arrow, one of the UK's largest recruitment businesses. This was the largest delivery
that the Resource Business Unit has made with over 100 users of the system in a contract worth over
 350,000. The Directors believe that similar contracts, despite their longer sales cycles, represent a
significant opportunity. Mondas is therefore further investing in its ability to win and deliver these
solutions.
Mondas has worked with its Education sector customers to broaden its product offering. This has
produced an integrated suite that adds learning management and continuous professional
development applications to our existing accounting, human resources and payroll solutions. Your
Board believes that there are few companies capable of delivering a truly integrated solution such as
this and the investment during the year is beginning to bear fruit. In June 2003, we achieved our first
Resource LMS sale and, indeed, first integrated solution sale combining Resource LMS with Resource
32000 for Richmond Adult Community College in a pioneering agreement worth approximately
 100,000.
Mondas PLC
Chairman's Statement
continued
4 Launched in November 2002, Resource LMS manages the people and processes within an education
environment including enrolments, examination management and, vital to colleges, the production of
the government reports required to secure their funding. The Directors believe that many more
colleges will be seeking to replace their systems in this area over the next few years.
Management Changes
In January 2003 Tom McClelland resigned from the Board of Mondas Information Technology Limited,
the Company's only wholly-owned trading company, and announced his intention to pursue other
ventures, leaving the Company in July 2003. Mondas would like to thank him for his contribution to
the Company and wish him all the best for the future.
Dividend
The Directors are not recommending the payment of a dividend in respect of the financial year under
review (2002: nil). 
Future Prospects
The strategy within the Education Sector has been to extend the range of products offered to both
new and existing customers. The new Resource LMS product is already generating significant
interest. A consortium of Sixth Form Colleges have been evaluating the product recently and a number
of non-legally-binding Letters of Intent have been received which, if all the consortium convert to firm
contracts, will represent an aggregate value of approaching  700,000 over five years.
A recent report from US research company, Celent Communications, claims that spending on
Corporate Actions projects is projected to total almost US$830 million between 2003-2007 as the
securities and investment industry looks to automate one of the last remaining manual areas within
the securities processing chain . We believe that Mondas is in an enviable position in one of the few
markets where global institutions are still spending. Today, the Company is in exclusive contractual
negotiations with one of the world's largest banks with retail and wholesale operations, which wishes
to automate its CA processing with Radica CAPS. 
Your Board believes that the opportunities facing the Company today will enable Mondas to expand
both organically and through acquisition. In the Banking and Securities Sector, following approaches
from US organisations, members of the management team visited sales prospects, clients and
alliance partners to discuss US openings. The Company is actively seeking acquisition opportunities
to help both Business Units extend their reach.
Having earned an operating profit in the second half of the period under review, the Directors expect
this trend to continue into the current year. I am hopeful that we will be able to announce much
improved results when I report to you next year.
The Board would like to thank all at Mondas for creating, through their hard work and commitment,
the opportunity that we have now.
D T A Simon
Chairman
14 July 2003
Mondas PLC
Chairman's Statement
continued
5