 MONITISE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 3
OVERVIEW
I am pleased to report the first results for the Monitise group (the Group) since its demerger from Morse plc
and admission to the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) on 28 June 2007. In the last year we have made
strong progress both with our UK business and our international expansion strategy and we are extremely
well-positioned to become a leading mobile banking and payments platform.
This was our first full year of trading since Monitise commenced operations as a separate operating company
within Morse plc in October 2005. The Group is still in its investment phase and, consistent with this and in
line with the Board's expectations, we reported an operating loss, after  0.6m of exceptional charges, of
 8.7m, (nine months ended 30 June 2006:  3.3m) and a doubling of turnover to  0.5m (nine months ended
30 June 2006:  0.2m).
This year has seen the Group establish the foundations for its next phase of growth. We have now created
the first mobile banking and payments ecosystem in the UK market. Importantly, our secure, robust method
of delivering bank-grade transactions via an intuitive interface on mobile devices is not tied to proprietary bank
or operator technologies, which gives us the ability to provide our service to all of the major banks and mobile
operators. Moreover, by leveraging and replicating the existing ATM technical infrastructure already 
ATM/payment switches. 
The international mobile banking and payments market is growing very rapidly and we have entered this
market with a strong foundation of proven, trusted technology and established relationships with high-profile
banks, mobile operators and switch providers.
Based on the success of the MONILINK service in the UK and our recently agreed joint venture in the United
States, we are confident that our ecosystem model provides the most sustainable route to market for banks
looking to provide mobile banking and payment services in other territories, providing them with rapid returns
and helping them introduce new value added services to their customers.
Our vision is to deliver low-cost mobile banking for the mass market and we aim to become a leader in mobile
banking services worldwide. Having established our platform in the UK and built strong operational and
contractual relationships with a significant number of banks and mobile operators, including global brands
such as HSBC, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, Vodafone, O
2
(part of Telefonica) and Orange (part of
France Telecom), we are seeing our customers acting as advocates for the adoption of Monitise services in
the other geographies in which they operate.
OUR MARKET AND MODEL
Although the mobile banking and payments market is still in the early stages of development, the evidence
suggests that it should rapidly become one of the main channels to market for banks and financial services
firms. Banks around the world have progressively expanded banking services from branch networks to 
self-service channels (such as ATMs) to internet banking and telephone banking. Our view is that mobile
banking is now the logical continuation of this trend, leveraging automation to reduce costs and improve
customer convenience. In addition to delivering new income streams and providing cross-selling opportunities
for banks, mobile banking has the potential to reduce the incidence of fraud, protect the banks from
disintermediation of transaction business and provide a response to the increasing regulatory pressure 
for transparency.
Chairman's Statement

We have made strong progress both with our
UK business and our international expansion
strategy and we are extremely well-positioned 
to become a leading banking and payments
platform.
 
Duncan McIntyre
Chairman
74338 pre  17/9/07  19:30  Page 3
used by all of the major retail banks, we have ensured simplicity of implementation for banks and MONITISE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 4
HSBC and first direct were proud to be the global pioneers of the MONILINK service
when it launched in 2006.   
first direct, through its award winning SMS balances and alert service, was already a
recognised leader in mobile banking.  However for HSBC, MONILINK was its first
significant move into mobile banking services, having considered various options over
a period of time.   
We felt the time was right to move to the next generation of mobile banking to provide
our customers with the convenience and control that is central to ensuring we offer
flexibility and choice in servicing our 12m+ customers. 
As with most financial organisations, IT is a scarce resource so the very low integration
effort required to launch the service was of great appeal to us together with the comfort
of knowing the service was underpinned by VocaLink with all the inherent security and
resilience that an ATM switch provides. It was also important for us to be able to offer
this service to all our customers and not just those registered for on-line banking. 
The MONILINK service presents significant opportunity in the broader mCommerce
space with the ability to be a strategic revenue stream in the future as our personal and
business customers increasingly use mobile phones to manage their finances. 
We are seeing some very encouraging registration rates from our customers and
through enhancements to the service are receiving positive feedback, including from
a 71 year old who called us to say how  wowed' he was by the service! 
Alison Leonard 
Head of eCommerce 
HSBC

 
74338 pre  17/9/07  15:57  Page 4 The customer's ability to interact with his or her bank is only part of the mobile banking and payments
revolution and there are major developments within the industry that will lead to the mobile handset becoming
the initiator of payments on a broader scale. Mobile banking will, in due course, allow consumers to initiate
peer-to-peer and remittance payments, manage accounts from which payments are made and access their
sources of funds to reload whatever electronic payment method is used. There is already a fledgling market
for cashless transactions using stored value cards, such as the  Oyster' service successfully deployed by
Transport for London, which requires access to funds directly from users accounts. Through our mobile top-
up mechanism, we have already demonstrated our ability to meet the demand for a payment mechanism for
these services. Furthermore, as the stored value card market develops, primarily in response to the industry
requirement to reduce the cost involved in low value transactions currently serviced by cash, a mobile
interface and top-up mechanism will be essential to its future success. Monitise is well placed to meet this
requirement, both in the early stages and in the future as Near Field Communications (NFC) technologies
within mobile handsets develops. 
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
Monitise has established a clear footprint in this market with a unique, defendable and sustainable model
capable of addressing the huge opportunities presented by mass-market global mobile banking and
payments as well as related applications for our technology and intellectual property. 
Our strategy for growth in its simplest form rests on three key areas:
  Sign up the world's leading banks and ATM/payment switches to the Monitise platform;
  attract the appropriate partners to deliver sustainable, local ecosystems; and 
  develop a compelling and customer-centric product roadmap ahead of the market.
We are pleased with the progress of the business in meeting these objectives. We are confident that we will
reach agreement to provide our services to other UK banking groups over the coming months and we are
already seeing our customers acting as advocates for the adoption of Monitise services in the other
geographies in which they operate. We will continue to add partners in the UK and overseas and anticipate
that the number of customers to whom our services are accessible will continue to build in line with the fast
growth mobile banking and payments market.
The individuals who have worked on bringing Monitise to market demonstrated exemplary tenacity,
commercial acumen and technical flair and they should be justly proud of their achievements so far. 
I would like to thank them all for their hard work and dedication and I look forward to continuing to work with
them as we enter this exciting phase of the Group's development.
Although we will remain in an investment phase for the near future, we are seeing encouraging early signs of
revenue generation and, as we establish a presence in more overseas markets, this revenue opportunity will
continue to grow.
Monitise has strong momentum, an excellent competitive position and compelling prospects. We believe the
current year will be a period of substantial progress.
DUNCAN McINTYRE - Chairman 
MONITISE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 5
Chairman's Statement (continued)

We are seeing encouraging early signs of revenue generation and, 
as we establish a presence in more overseas markets, this revenue
opportunity will continue to grow.
 
74338 pre 17/9/07 21:03 Page 5 MONITISE PLC REPORT&ACCOUNTS2007 6
With the launch of the Vodafone Internet On Your Mobile we wanted to
give customers access to all the services they see as essential, in the
palm of their hand. Banking is one of the most important services that our
customers use and by partnering with the MONILINK network we can
ensure that all of our customers are able to access their bank accounts
on the move, whenever they wish.
Al Russell
Head of Mobile Internet and Content Services
Vodafone UK

 
74338 pre  17/9/07  18:01  Page 6