 4 3
www.appian-tech.com 03
15027 14/03/2008 Proof 3
I am pleased to update shareholders on the progress we
made during the year ended 30 September 2007 and to
give an overview on current trading.
Since my last report, Appian Technology Plc has seen
some significant changes, which I believe have
strengthened its position in the market, enabling us to
maximise the potential of its proprietary ANPR related
products and services. Progress has been made in a
number of areas, particularly in product and market
development, resulting in Appian now being recognised
as a global brand in ANPR and traffic management. We
carried out over 30 trials worldwide, which have led to
product approval in a number of markets, tailoring of
our product for specific circumstances which we
anticipate will lead to future business. We also made
progress in camera development and product roll-out
and we believe that we now have the best of breed in
recognition cameras, which we have commenced selling
as stand-alone products.
However, whilst the underlying business was
strengthened, the second half of the last financial year
was a difficult period for Appian, during which many
anticipated orders were delayed by circumstances
outside of our control or our customers'. Importantly, we
did not lose any business which we expected to win and
the order flow has increased in the first quarter of this
year. In addition, there was an increase in cost due to the
acquisition of Genesis, which was only sustainable at the
higher levels of sales experienced in the first half. All costs
have been reviewed and, following the end of the Genesis
earn-out period, greater focus on cost management is
being achieved, which will reduce our ongoing cost base,
particularly in the second half of this year.
On a more optimistic note, the Group's addressable
markets are expanding. The UK market is continuing to
develop   for example, we have contracts with all
major high-spending metropolitan police forces.
International markets are forecast to replicate the UK
penetration levels, and ANPR spend is predicted to grow
by 20% per annum. We have secured additional market
footholds notably in the Middle East, Central and South
America, Europe and North Africa, so we believe the
door has been opened and the concept is tried, tested
and proven.
In the UK, we have a blue-chip customer base. During
the year, the Group won various UK police orders, in
many cases displacing competing ANPR providers to
become the supplier of choice. Notable contract wins in
the period included a  270,000 order for a fixed site
system from a UK metropolitan police force, orders for
our new COBRA ANPR camera range and a  350,000
order from a West Country constabulary. We also won
an order from the Civil Nuclear Constabulary, for mobile
systems worth  185,000. In the commercial sector, we
are selling static and mobile systems to individual
companies and commercial systems integrators at an
increasing rate. A new parking ANPR system was installed
at the prestigious NEC site in Birmingham. Follow-on
business is expected for this type of application.
Internationally, we won orders in Latin America, the
Middle East, Europe and the USA. The Group has a 30%
interest in a consortium which has a 10-year contract to
run a new congestion charging scheme in Malta. This
sophisticated system combines ANPR with a state-of-
the-art hourly billing system, allowing motorists to view
and pay charges on the Internet. The consortium
Chairman's
Statement
With our addressable markets expanding and showing strong potential, a wider
product portfolio and more focused business, the Board is confident that Appian
can capitalise on its position as a leading internationally recognised brand. 
1 Cars at a busy junction
in the USA
2 Installation Team
3 Cobra ANPR cameras
4 Police car fitted
with ANPR
1 2
15027APPIANTE:Layout 1  18/3/08  06:36  Page 3 04 Appian Technology Annual Report 2007
15027 15027 14/03/2008 Proof 3
Chairman's Statement continued
intends to roll out this initiative to further congestion
charging schemes.
In the USA, we signed our first original equipment
manufacturer agreement ( OEM') with a leading security
software solutions group, Civica Software ( Civica'), our
California based distributor. As part of the agreement,
Appian receives an equity position with an option to
increase this shareholding at a defined price in the
future. Civica is focused on developing and distributing
technology products for the US Government and law
enforcement agencies. Under the terms of the
agreement, Civica will integrate Appian's TalonSP 
recognition engine into its proprietary hardware and
software system, PlateScan , to create a superior
product that enables customers to identify proactively
vehicles of interest during routine patrols. The new
integrated system is already generating considerable
interest, with the first sale recently agreed. 
Following an intensive investment and development
programme over the last 12 months, we now have a
wider product portfolio including both fixed site (Cobra,
Stinger) and mobile (Viper and MShark) applications. As
reported in the interim results, we remain focused on
developing innovative, high specification ANPR related
products, which incorporate unique design features, in
order to keep our systems at the forefront of technology
and accuracy. Our new COBRA camera, which
commenced production in February 2007, has been
well received in the market. STINGER, a camera 
combined with a processor, is designed to recognise and
process licence plates and associated imagery in
extreme conditions and transmit the data to the user via
wireless communications. Our third new camera, the
VIPER, a miniature in-car ANPR camera for the mobile
market, was also launched in 2007, as was the hand-
held MShark, and the order book is improving.
A number of changes have been made to our
management structure. In particular, we reorganised the
sales teams, enabling them to further capitalise on
opportunities and strengthened the management team.
The management of Research & Development has also
been significantly strengthened.
David Hearn has given notice of his intention to leave
the Board to pursue other opportunities. Philip Lindsell,
a chartered accountant who has held a number of 
senior finance roles within major UK companies, has
been appointed as Interim CFO. 
Furthermore, I am pleased to announce that the Group
has commenced the search for a non-executive
Chairman, and look forward to updating shareholders
in the near future. 
We were also delighted to welcome Arbuthnot
Securities Limited as our new nominated adviser and
stockbroker. Its highly professional team supported us
during the recent fundraising and continue to provide
valuable advice. 
Financials
After an encouraging first six months of continuing the
increased trend in sales growth, sales for the year ended
30 September 2007 were slightly down at  4.78 million
from  5.15 million previously, as a result of the 
slowdown in sales in the second half. Gross margins
decreased to 39.6% (2006: 52.8%) as a result of some
one-off  costs totalling  384,000 in respect of stock
write downs and the additional costs associated with
delivering the congestion charging scheme in Malta.
The Group incurred a loss after tax of  2.97 million
(2006: profit  5,000) which is equivalent to a loss of 2p
per share.
Other operating expenses increased to  4.48 million
(2006:  2.65 million) due to: a full year's costs from
Genesis of  894,000; an increase of  243,000 on
research and development; an increase of  572,000 
on sales and marketing; and, an increase of  121,000
on continuing to strengthen the management and after
sales team within the delivery and maintenance
departments. These cost increases have significantly
improved the Group's product lines and market
position. 
In December 2007, the Group raised  1,390,000 net of
expenses through the placing of 36,913,700 new 
ordinary shares at 4p per share with existing and new
institutional investors as well as certain directors of the
Group.
The Board is finalising plans regarding the issue of a
convertible loan note to raise up to  1 million, of which
interest for  480,000 has already been received, to
strengthen the balance sheet and provide additional
working capital to fund the strong level of contracts
won since the end of December. The cash tightened to
February 2008 as a result of forecast Quarter One sale
orders being received later than anticipated in the 
quarter, a delay in supplier deliveries in January which
are now ramping up faster than the Group's credit lines
allow resulting in certain key suppliers granting 
shortened credit facilities and limits being imposed on
the invoice discounting facility due to debtor
concentration. 
Current Trading and Outlook
The delayed orders from the second half of 2007 are
now materialising. After the year end, Appian won a
 540,000 contract with a major national police force in
the UK to install a new ANPR system, capable of 
processing in excess of 20 million vehicle licence plates
per day. This contract is the first phase of a larger two-
phase contract, which is expected to be completed
within 12 months. 
We also won two contracts with major UK police forces
in the south and north of England worth a total of
 410,000. These comprised a  260,000 order to install
our ANPR technology at a number of strategic fixed sites
in the south of England and a  150,000 order for a
fixed site ANPR system for a major city police force in
the north of England. We also recently announced two
further orders totalling  350,000 to supply ANPR 
technology to a UK military base and a prestigious
Middle Eastern hotel. 
With our addressable markets expanding and showing
strong potential, a wider product portfolio and more
focused business, the Board is confident that Appian
can capitalise on its position as a leading internationally
recognised brand in ANPR and traffic management and
deliver significantly enhanced sales. Whilst the timing of
the receipt of large orders will always be an issue for us,
I believe that 2008 will prove a pivotal year for the
Group as successful trials are converted into real 
contracts. I am therefore confident that the initiatives
we implemented during 2007 will have a positive
impact on Appian during 2008 and look forward to 
regularly updating shareholders with positive news flow. 
Pat Ryan
Executive Chairman and CEO 
3 March 2008
15027APPIANTE:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:39  Page 4