 Introduction Chairman's 
Summary
02
Report and Accounts 2007
Mouchel Parkman plc
Chairman's
Summary
This year's progress meant that we achieved pretty well all of the
objectives set out in our first corporate plan, drawn up at the time 
of the merger in the summer of 2003. The Group has doubled since
then. In 2006/07, we consolidated our presence in almost all of our
chosen markets and, with the potentially transformational acquisition 
of HBS Business Services Group Limited (HBS) in August 2007, we
entered some important new markets. Our corporate plan sets out 
our aspiration to double again by 2012. Such ambition is founded 
first and foremost on the opportunities that we see ahead for the 
Group; but also on the quality of people, infrastructure and systems 
that we continue to put in place in order to run a business growing 
at a rate of 20% to 25% per annum. 
Performance
Revenue in 2006/07 reached a record level of  448.4 million; underlying
operating profit increased by 23% to  33.0 million and adjusted earnings
per share increased by 18%. At 7.4%, operating margins continued to
make progress towards our medium-term target of 8%.
Our ability to win work has again been demonstrated to the full, with 
a win-rate at the top end of our target range of 33% to 40% of bids 
by value. In August 2007 our forward order book and bidding pipeline 
stood at  2.2 billion and  2.5 billion respectively, after allowing for the
impact of HBS. These figures highlight the excellent visibility of our future
earnings, the strong platform that we have created for further growth
and also the scale of the opportunities that are open to us. 
Strategy 
The strategy that we have focused on in recent years will remain 
unchanged going forward. We continue to believe that the 
UK public sector, together with those industries that are regulated 
by Government, offer us sufficient opportunity to realise our goals. 
We are however slowly beginning to consider additional avenues 
of growth that complement this strategy, including work with some
private sector clients and possibly in selected overseas locations. 
In all of our chosen markets, clients are looking to place more work 
with fewer suppliers for longer periods of time. As this consolidation,
which involves both horizontal and vertical market integration, continues
we will progressively extend the range of capabilities that we can offer,
either through joint venture and partnership or through acquisition. 
It has been another really good year for the 
Group. Once again we have delivered an excellent
performance, underpinned by some high-profile
contract wins but above all by the ingenuity, talent 
and sheer hard work of our employees. We are very
proud of them, of our resulting financial and business
achievements and of the quality of the relationships
that we have continued to build with a wide range 
of clients and partners. 
Richard Benton
Chairman  03
Report and Accounts 2007
Mouchel Parkman plc
Introduction Chairman's 
Summary
Today we are a trusted partner, providing a mix of consulting and
business solutions to the people and communities that our direct clients
are there to serve. For example, we work in joint venture to provide a
complete highway management service for road users in London and
the South West; we provide bundles of highways, property, ICT and
business process outsourcing services for residents of local authorities 
in the North West; we work with partners to design and install new
signalling equipment for the benefit of travellers on the London
Underground; and we have recently been selected preferred bidder 
by the London Borough of Hackney to be their long-term partner,
improving facilities for school-children under the Building Schools 
for the Future programme.
Business environment
Society is changing; and so are the demands placed on our business.
The public expects more from our transport systems, in terms of
reliability, predictability and the provision of information that is timely 
and accurate. Charging for road space could quite soon become a
reality in our major conurbations after decades of debate. Climate
change, sustainability and carbon management are issues demanding
policies and incentives that influence not just good practice but also 
day-to-day behaviours. Our childrens' education needs to be in modern
facilities which are appropriate to our changing climate, to more flexible
methods and to a more diverse population. There is significant and
growing demand for more affordable and more accessible housing,
creating pressures on the availability of land, services and infrastructure.
And advances in technology are changing the way we all live and work,
particularly in terms of the need for greater flexibility. 
As a result of these pressures, our business, and the solutions we
develop, are today very different from those we have offered in the past.
The people we employ are different too. The acquisitions we have made
in 2006/07 are a direct consequence of these changes. We also believe
that the time is right to reflect these changes in the way we are seen 
by staff, partners and clients.
Brand
In future, we will be known as Mouchel and intend to seek the
permission of shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting (AGM)
to rename to Mouchel Group plc. The creation of Mouchel Parkman
in 2003 was the right way of demonstrating the importance that both
parties brought to what was very nearly a merger of equals. The merger
is long behind us now. The rather long and unwieldy company name
has, however, not helped to establish our profile and often this has 
been abbreviated to MP . The change to Mouchel retains our history 
and heritage, is unique and differentiated, and offers us the chance 
to re-emphasise our positioning in the market and highlight everything
that is distinctive about the Group and the services we now offer.
Organic growth, alliances and acquisitions
This has been a year of growth on every front for Mouchel. Over the 
last five years we have achieved sustained growth in the range of 20%
to 25% per annum and this remains our target for the next five years. 
We think organic growth offers us growth potential of 10% to 15% per
annum, as a result of market growth, inflation and increasing market
share. So acquisitions account for the balance. 
Acquisitions contributed some  27 million to our revenues in 2006/07.
Three acquisitions were completed on the same day in November 2006
when we bought Hornagold & Hills, Ewan Group plc (Ewan), and Traffic
Support Limited (TSL). These deals strengthened our service and
product offering respectively in project management and management
consultancy, water engineering and parking and congestion
management - all areas where we want to expand and develop 
in response to changes in the business environment.
Immediately after our financial year end, in August 2007, we acquired
business process outsourcing specialist, HBS. This move is in line 
with our strategy for horizontal integration, opening up a new range 
of services which are complementary to those we already offer and for 
the same principal client base of UK local authorities. Since its foundation 
in 1999, HBS has undergone successive periods of rapid growth,
stabilisation and recovery. On acquisition the business was not profitable.
We are nevertheless confident that it is a business positioned in 
a high-growth market and will respond very favourably to being part 
of Mouchel. This belief is strengthened further by the revenue synergies
we anticipate in the local authority bundled services market, by our
track record of successful acquisition integration and by our ability 
to identify savings in HBS' operating costs of at least  2.5 million 
per annum. The process of transition and growth is however unlikely 
to be complete until well into 2008, with consequent impact on Group
margins for the year to July 2008.
People 
Mouchel was this year ranked as the second largest employer of
technical staff in the UK engineering consultancy sector.
1
Staff numbers
grew by 37% to 8,168 at the year end. The subsequent acquisition 
of HBS has further increased our headcount to very nearly 11,000. 
There is a strong sense of pride in an organisation that we think places
its people first. We want to be a great company and to be known as
a great place to work, a place where people can make a difference to
society and have an impact on the communities where they live and
work. This year we've put considerable effort into those things we think
will make us a great company. So, as well as providing challenging
careers for the many thousands we employ, we rate job security and
stability amongst our most important measures of success. We also
think it is very important that everyone - and we celebrate the fact 
that we employ an extremely diverse population - enjoys working 
at Mouchel, not only deriving job satisfaction but also having fun. 
All of our people have again done a great job for the Group this year,
regularly giving their discretionary time to help our clients and the
communities they serve, often under exceptional circumstances. 
We have supported the residents of flooded housing estates in
Gloucestershire; we have provided relief accommodation for children
whose schools have been closed by fire damage in Kent; and we have
organised drinking water for drivers queued on the M25 in extreme 
hot weather. Without this dedication, commitment and willingness to 
go the extra mile, we would not have come anywhere near realising 
the level of performance that we have reported this year.
Outlook 
We are content with our progress this year. But we also know we 
have lots still to achieve. We are excited by our prospects and by the
challenges of continuing to build this business until Mouchel is number
one in all of its chosen markets. We are facing the future with what we
consider to be well-placed confidence and optimism.
Richard Benton
Chairman 
31 October 2007
Note
1 New Civil Engineer Consultants File 2007. 