 Murgitroyd Group PLC
Directors' report and financial statements
31 May 2010
3 
Chairman's statement 
Financial review
The Group has continued to show resilience during the year, with performance in line with expectations in spite
of the continued challenging economic backdrop.  For the year ended 31 May 2010, Group turnover increased
by 2% to  29.4 million (2009:  28.9 million) as we won new contracts and improved market share.  Gross profit
was flat at  18.3 million (2009:  18.4 million) due to continued pressure on margins, which was anticipated by 
the Group and was to some degree offset by increased volumes.  Gross margin was 62.3% (2009: 63.7%),
again an anticipated change, and reflecting the mix of work, particularly new types of work won at lower margins
in a competitive market place.  Operating profit rose by 14% to  4.0 million (2009:  3.5 million).
Murgitroyd's head office, Scotland House, is owned by the Group and is revalued annually as at the financial 
year end date.  The annual revaluation of the head office building resulted in a property revaluation credit of
 156,000 as compared to an exceptional charge of  355,000 being made against profit in the previous year. 
Excluding the impact of property revaluations (both years), profit before income tax increased by over 6% to
 3.67 million (2009:  3.45 million).
As announced in the interim statement, the Group completed its annual review of facilities with Clydesdale Bank
as at 30 November 2009.  Net debt as at 31 May 2010 was reduced to  5.8 million (2009:  7.0 million).  We 
continue to trade comfortably within our trading and cash flow banking covenants, and the Group has sufficient 
headroom across all facilities.  The Board believes the Group's banking facilities are competitively priced and are
sufficient for our current purposes.
Murgitroyd benefitted from low interest rates during the financial year and, as anticipated, interest charges for the 
year were substantially lower than in the previous period.  The Group also continued to benefit from careful 
foreign exchange management.  As a net purchaser of the Euro, and with growing operations in both the United 
States and Japan, we will continue to carefully monitor exchange rates and movements thereon.    
Both capital expenditure and working capital have been managed to optimise cash flow. The programme of
carefully restricting capital expenditure that commenced in the last financial year continued during the year under
review, with expenditure unchanged year on year.  Debtor days have lengthened by just one day as compared
with 31 May 2009, and the Group's bad debt provision, and experience, both remain at less than 1% of sales.  
The Group will continue to closely manage cash flows. 
Management continued to monitor the Group's overheads, resulting in an overall reduction during the year and, 
excluding the property revaluation credit of  156,000, administrative expenses have fallen as a percentage of 
turnover.  The tight control of costs, combined with the savings accrued from reduced interest charges and our
foreign exchange management, has allowed us to continue to invest in our business development activities.  The
streamlining of administrative processes has also allowed Murgitroyd's fee earners to focus more time on 
revenue generation. Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements
31 May 2010
4 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
Operating review
The Group operated fourteen offices in nine countries during the year, and the growth and development of 
Murgitroyd's offices and network is ongoing.  As announced previously, the Helsinki Office in Finland was
formally opened in March 2010 to represent clients' interests in the Nordic countries.  Since the year end the 
Group opened its fifteenth office: a new business development office in Tokyo, Japan, replicating the US 
business development office. 
The Group's US business development office in Raleigh, North Carolina, remains of key strategic importance to 
the Group, as new US business offset reductions in sales in other geographic areas.  Sales to US clients 
increased by  1.9 million during the year to  5.8 million (2009:  3.9 million). Reflecting the importance of the US 
market to the Group, I have taken on the role of Global Head of Business Development based in the Raleigh 
office.  The office expanded to seven people over the year, an increase from three as reported in last year's 
Directors' report and financial statements.  We continue to look to recruit new staff to meet expected growth in
this key region as our IP Portal service attracts new clients.  The team based in Raleigh will relocate to larger
offices in the autumn.
In addition to pursuing organic growth, Murgitroyd continues to look for and evaluate suitable acquisition
opportunities which are assessed against our highly-selective acquisition criteria. We will only consider 
acquisitions that are immediately earnings enhancing, competitively priced and complementary to the Group's 
existing offering. 
People
The total number of employees as at 31 May 2010 was 221, a slight reduction compared with the previous year, 
due to those leaving the Group not necessarily being replaced immediately.  However, since the year end the
Group has successfully recruited three qualified Attorneys for roles in the Newcastle, Helsinki and London 
offices.  In addition, since the year end, five part-qualified Attorneys have been recruited to the London, Belfast, 
Dublin, Edinburgh and Glasgow offices, and two new trainee Attorneys have been recruited to the Dublin and 
Belfast offices.
The average age of all fee earners at Murgitroyd remains under 40, which is relatively young for the industry, 
and the Group remains committed to investing in in-house training, as the lead-time for new graduates is 
generally between five to seven years.  We view our fee earners as a long-term asset to the Group and our
recruitment, training processes and career development are aimed at maximising staff retention.  In line with our 
long-term growth strategy, the Group continues to look to recruit new professional and support staff. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for their continued commitment to the Group.  The 
Group's Deputy Chairman, David Castle, has announced his intention to leave the Group at this year's AGM.  
David leaves by mutual agreement and with the good wishes of the Board, to pursue other interests.  On expiry 
of his contractual obligations, or by agreement of the Board, David may return to the IP profession either in the
UK or abroad but has no firm plans to do so at present.  I would like to take this opportunity to thank David for
his valuable contribution to Murgitroyd since he joined us in 2005, when we acquired David W.J. Castle & Co. 
Limited.  Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements
31 May 2010
5 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
The market
Against a difficult economic backdrop, Patent applications at the European Patent Office (EPO) in the calendar
year 2009 fell by 7.6%, whilst Community Trade Mark applications were flat.  According to the EPO Future 
Filings Survey, 2009, Patent applications are expected to fall by a modest 2.4% in 2010 before returning to
growth in 2011. 
The Group continues to see a number of opportunities to tender for work and gain market share, albeit under
price pressure.  Given the Group's resilient performance in difficult markets, investment in business development 
and fee earners, and its continuing tight control over costs, we believe we will be well placed to take advantage 
of what is hoped will be an improving marketplace.
We are monitoring with interest the UK Government's proposals on a Patent Box and its possible beneficial 
effect on Corporation Tax rates applicable to profits derived from patented products.
Share price 
During the period, the middle market price of the Company's shares fluctuated between 225p and 302.5p.  The
current middle market price is 272.5p. 
Change of adviser
As announced previously, the Group was pleased to appoint Brewin Dolphin Limited as sole Nominated Adviser 
and Broker to the Group in March 2010.
Dividend 
Two interim dividends, of 3p and 5p per share respectively, were paid during the year, reflecting the Board's 
confidence in the continued performance of the Group.  A final dividend of 2p per share is being proposed, 
giving a total dividend for the year of 10p (2009: 9.5p). 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 3rd December 2010 to 
shareholders on the register on 5th November 2010. Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements
31 May 2010
6 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
Outlook
Despite the continued challenging economic backdrop, Murgitroyd has continued to perform robustly and gain
market share, increasing sales and profits. We continue to successfully pursue organic growth in the new
financial year in addition to continuing to review acquisition opportunities where appropriate, and where they
meet our highly selective criteria, whilst keeping careful control of costs across the Group.
Given the Group's prudent management and robust performance in difficult markets, the Board believes that 
Murgitroyd is well positioned to take advantage of current and future opportunities within the market.  We remain 
confident of our ability to generate long-term growth and value for shareholders, as we continue to invest in 
business development activities, such as the recent opening of our Tokyo office, replicating the IP Portal concept 
used to establish the Group in the US.
Ian G Murgitroyd, Chairman
3 September 2010