 Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2012 
3 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
Financial review  
 
Murgitroyd has continued to deliver a robust performance which represents the eleventh consecutive year of 
sales and earnings growth with turnover increasing by 7.5% to  35.7 million (2011:  33.2 million).  The Group 
continued to expand organically and attract new clients in a market where fee levels remain competitive.  
 
Operating profit* rose by 9.2% to  4.5 million (2011:  4.1 million) before the impact of the annual revaluation of 
the Group's head office building (an uplift of  30,000, 2011: an uplift of  55,000).  Profit before income tax* 
increased by 10.3% to  4.4m (2011:  4.0m) reflecting the organic growth achieved as well as continuing tight 
control on costs. 
 
The period also saw a continuation in the increased use of specialist paralegal and formalities staff assisting in 
the streamlining of delivery of particular types of service and in the winning of new business in an increasingly 
price-sensitive market place.  We pride ourselves in providing our clients with a high quality service at 
competitive prices. 
 
The Group's basic earnings per share* increased to 36.4p (2011: 30.5p) during the period under review and net 
cash flow after financing for the period was positive at  185,000.  The comparatively large year on year increase 
in earnings per share of 19.3% arises in part because of the impact of the prior year adjustments to overseas tax 
in 2011.   
 
The Board proposes a final dividend of 8.5p per share, giving a total dividend for the year of 12p (2011: 10.75p), 
an increase of 11.6% year on year.  
 
Gross profit was up 4.8% at  20.9 million (2011:  19.9 million), with the gross margin percentage falling to 
58.4% (2011: 59.9%), reflecting ongoing market pricing pressures as well as changed sales mix.  The Group 
also continued to successfully manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange movements.  
 
Interest charges for the period under review were down by 22.8% compared to the same period last year 
amounting to  112,000 (2011:  145,000) as debt linked to historic acquisitions continued to be paid down and 
interest rates remained at historically low levels.   
 
The Group benefits from competitively priced banking facilities and continues to operate comfortably within its 
trading and cash flow banking covenants.  Against the continuing macro-economic uncertainty, management 
recognises the importance of maintaining tight cost controls.  This has been successfully achieved during the 
period. 
 
* before impact of property revaluation 
 
   Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2012 
4 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Operating review 
 
Murgitroyd operated fifteen offices in eight countries worldwide during the period and we continue to develop this 
global network.  We have expanded our presence in Munich where Group Board Director Graham Murnane, 
most recently head of professional practice, and an experienced European Patent practitioner and former 
European Patent Office Examiner, is now based alongside two German Attorneys.  We are looking to further 
expand this office in the coming year, and a fourth Attorney starts in the second quarter of the new financial 
year, joining as the office relocates to larger accommodation in November. 
 
The Group also opened a central London office during the period for which we have recruited two new 
employees in addition to the staff who relocated from existing offices.  The office will primarily serve as a client 
service centre similar to other such centres in Glasgow and Munich.  It complements our existing presence in 
south London (Croydon).   
 
London and Munich are two of the locations where the new unified European Patent Court will sit.  The Court's 
third location, and the seat of its central division, will be in Paris.  We will consider how best to service our 
clients' needs in Paris in the course of the coming year. 
 
Take up of the IP Portal service showed strong growth during the period and we saw a further increase in 
business generated from the US where the Group's new business development office in San Francisco made its 
first full year contribution. The Group's global business development centre in North Carolina remains of key 
strategic importance by driving our organic growth.  Sales to US clients continue to grow, up by 20.3% year on 
year, contributing just under 60% of the total increase in sales. 
 
Our business development presence, on the ground, in Tokyo started two years ago.  We stated that we would 
assess the return on the Group's investment in this method of servicing, and expansion into, the Japanese 
market on an ongoing basis.  This assessment led us, during the period, to review how we carry out business 
development activity in Japan and resulted in the Group no longer directly employing its own business 
development staff in Tokyo but instead working closely with a local associate to develop this market. 
 
People 
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for their hard work and commitment.  As at 31 May 2012 
the Group employed 234 staff (31 May 2011: 230).  While we have not increased the number of Attorneys, the 
overall number of employees did rise as we continued to recruit professional and paralegal staff across our 
network of offices.  Future recruitment, including Attorneys, will see additional staff join our central London and 
Munich offices.  Recognising talent early on, and as part of our corporate social responsibility, we will also recruit 
graduates into our recently launched intern programme which provides a year of structured work experience and 
training for up to six graduates and will provide an opportunity of remaining with the Group on a training contract 
thereafter.   
 
As a company we remain committed to continued investment in people, systems and service offerings. 
 
In February the Board was sad to announce the untimely death of our non-Executive Director Dr Chris Greig.  
Chris, who chaired the Audit Committee, was appointed to the Board in January 2002 and contributed 
enormously to the Group's growth and development for more than ten years.   
 
  Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2012 
5 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
People (continued) 
 
In March we announced two further changes to the Board.  Firstly we were delighted to welcome David Gray, as 
non-Executive Director, to the Board.  David is a non-Executive director of Superglass Holdings plc and Scottish 
Water Horizons Ltd, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, and a member of Court 
at the University of Strathclyde.  Secondly, Edward Murgitroyd was appointed Deputy Chairman thus reinforcing 
the Group's commitment to business development, and to our IP Portal offering which, as noted, has been a 
significant component of our growth in the last few years. 
 
The market  
 
Statistics available from the European Community Trade Mark Office (OHIM), based in Alicante, show an 
increased number of Trade Mark applications, to the end of July 2012, on the number of applications in 2011, a 
calendar year that had, in turn, seen a record high number of filings, up 7.7% on 2010. 
 
The European Patent Office (EPO) published its filing statistics for 2011 in early 2012.  These reported a 3% 
rise in applications on what had been the record number of filings in 2010.   
 
Approximately one quarter (2011: 24.4%, 2010: 25.8%) of all European Patent applications continue to be filed 
by applicants whose country of residence is the US.  Filings from applicants in the six European countries in 
which the Group has offices represent a further 24% of all filings.  The Group is, therefore, operating on the 
ground in territories from where almost half (48.4%) of European Patent applications emanated in 2011. 
 
Both OHIM's and the EPO's statistics are used as benchmarks for the number of new filings for Intellectual 
Property Rights and are considered good indicators of current market conditions. 
 
In addition the Group is preparing to accommodate an increase in activity resulting from the UK Government's 
Patent Box initiative that will provide a Corporation Tax reduction to companies earning income from qualifying 
Intellectual Property Rights such as UK Patents. 
 
Share price  
  
During the period, the middle market price of the Company's shares fluctuated between 292p and 405p.  The 
current middle market price is 387.5p. 
 
Dividend 
 
An interim dividend, of 3.5p per share, was paid during the year, reflecting the Board's confidence in the 
continued performance of the Group.  A final dividend of 8.5p per share is being proposed, giving a total 
dividend for the year of 12p (2011: 10.75p), an increase of 11.6% year on year. 
 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 23 November 2012 to 
shareholders on the register on 12 October 2012.  The ex-dividend date is 10 October 2012. 
 
  Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2012 
6 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Outlook  
 
Although we remain cautious in light of the uncertain economic environment, we are confident in the Group's 
ability to continue to generate organic growth.  Tight cost control and maximising the funds available to invest in 
direct business development, systems improvement and efficiencies to drive competitive pricing remain priorities 
for the Group as we pursue growth.   
 
The Board will consider acquisition opportunities if they are complementary to the Group's existing offering and 
immediately earnings enhancing.  The focus will however be on growing organically and continuing to generate 
value for shareholders.   
 
We continue to believe that Murgitroyd remains able to generate long-term growth and value for shareholders. 
 
 
Ian G Murgitroyd, Chairman 
10 September 2012 