 4
Chairman's	Statement
Michael Beckett 
Chairman
Last year, your Company reported a loss before tax of 
 17.4m (restated to comply with IFRS). This year, I am 
pleased that we made a profit before tax of  43.8m.
This was our first pre-tax profit since 2001, and showed 
an improvement of more than  60m over the previous 
year. This is the third year in succession that we have 
achieved a significant improvement in results. Our return 
to profitability is a significant milestone for MyTravel  
and may be seen as the culmination of a long process of 
financial restructuring and operational turnaround which 
began with the appointment of Peter McHugh as Chief 
Executive towards the end of 2002. However, while  
we are proud of what has been accomplished to date, 
we consider that the Group has some way to go before 
we can say that the turnaround is complete. We have 
now set ourselves new objectives.
Results	
I am particularly pleased with the achievement of  
a 20% improvement in operating profit, to  61.7m  
(2005:  51.3m) in such a difficult year for the travel 
industry and I return to this theme below. Management 
calculates that the costs of fuel and foreign currency 
increased year on year by  25.8m and  22.5m 
respectively. We also faced fees of  8.4m payable on our 
bonding and letters of credit facilities for the remainder  
of the year following the normalisation event  in 
January 2006. However, our actions to reduce selling 
and marketing, general and administration costs were 
successful, and we reduced these costs by  54.4m  
in the UK and a total of  66.8m for the Group.
In the UK, we improved the loss from operations by 
53% to  12.9m (2005:  27.4m). In Northern Europe, 
we achieved another record performance, with profit 
from operations of  64.1m (2005:  60.7m). Our 
operating margin in Northern Europe was an industry 
leading 8.1%. In North America, the profit from 
operations was  10.4m, compared with  16.9m  
in the prior year.
The basic earnings per share for the year was 5.67p. 
The diluted earnings per share was 5.63p (2005: basic 
and diluted loss per share 10.89p). Before exceptional 
items, basic earnings per share was 9.19p (2005: 6.08p)  
and diluted earnings per share 9.13p (2005: 6.05p).
Dividend	policy	
In my last statement, I wrote that due to the lack of 
distributable reserves, the Board was unable to pay  
a dividend. Since then, we have taken the necessary 
measures to facilitate the resumption of dividend 
payments. At an Extraordinary General Meeting on  
26 May 2006, a special resolution was passed by the 
Company's shareholders to reduce the Company's share 
capital by way of a reduction in the share premium 
account. On 28 June 2006, this reduction of capital was 
confirmed by an order of the High Court. The Company 
is now in a position to pay dividends out of distributable 
profits earned from that date onwards. If the Board's 
expectations for 2007 are achieved, the Board would 
expect to be in a position in December 2007 to propose 
the resumption of regular payments.
The	market
In common with other tour operators, 2006 turned  
out to be a difficult year in all our markets, which were 
affected to a greater or lesser extent by three factors:  
the World Cup, record high summer temperatures  
and a series of terrorist incidents and alerts. In the UK, 
market conditions for summer were already difficult as  
a result of the World Cup and unusually warm weather. 
As a result, sales volumes through to the end of July were 
down 3% on 1.4% less capacity, and average selling 
prices were up 2%. At the beginning of August we had 
approximately 300,000 holidays left to sell. Following the 
UK security alert in August, there was a significant fall in 
demand for the remainder of the summer and prices had 
to be heavily discounted to stimulate sales. This resulted 
in average selling prices achieved in August, September 
and October for travel in those months being 10%  
below the prior year. Northern Europe also had a difficult 
summer, affected by the World Cup, very warm weather 
and terrorist incidents in Turkey. In addition, North 
America was affected by the UK security alert, 
particularly on our transatlantic programme.
However, your Board does not believe that 2006 
represents the shape of things to come for the package 
holiday business. All the evidence suggests that summer 
2006 was an exceptional season, caused by an unusual 
combination of factors timed to disrupt the normal 
patterns of demand. We estimate that despite the  
poor summer, the number of package holidays sold in 
the UK in 2006 was 19m, broadly unchanged since 1999, 
whereas the total number of holidays taken abroad has 
risen from some 35m to 46.4m. The growth has been  
in independent travel, but there is no question that 
millions of consumers in Northern Europe and North 
America as well as the UK, find the value, service and 
security of a package holiday the most attractive holiday 
product. Serving this market will continue to be our  
core business.
Strategy
This month we have announced the results of a strategic 
review which has been in progress for much of 2006.  5
MYTRAVEL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SECTION
0
SECTION
03
SECTION
04
SECTION
05
SECTION
06
SECTION
07
We initiated this review to plan for the next three years, 
2007-2009. The restructuring plan put in place in 2004 
focused on returning the UK business to profitability at 
industry standard margins. The most significant changes 
in our business environment since 2004 have been the 
higher cost of fuel and the increased volatility of foreign 
exchange, in particular the US dollar. However, the 
number of package holidays taken in the UK has not 
varied materially from our original estimates.
In the review we made a number of assumptions.  
We assumed stability in the economies of our home 
markets and a mature package holiday market, with 
demand in the UK remaining at 18-20m customers.  
We assumed that while natural and man-made disasters 
would continue to occur, no one incident will cause  
a sustained disruption to the holiday market. We 
assumed that the regulatory environment will not change 
unpredictably. Finally, we assumed that the overall 
holiday market will continue to evolve - it will be  
no less rational, access to aircraft and accommodation  
will not change materially, and some consolidation  
is inevitable.
The Group's overall goal is to become a leading leisure 
travel business, delivering shareholder value. Our success 
will be measured not by the Group's size, but by our 
profitability, the quality of our operations and products, 
and our relations with our people, our customers and 
our shareholders. Our targets are to achieve industry 
standard margins in the medium term and industry 
leading margins in the longer term.
In order to achieve growth we will continue to work  
to improve the performance of our core businesses  
in the UK, Northern Europe and North America. We  
also see opportunities for growth through acquisition  
and consolidation, which we will judge by their ability  
to strengthen and differentiate our product offering,  
the available synergies and financial measures. We will 
develop consolidation opportunities, principally, but not 
solely, in the UK, which offer cost reduction potential 
and, ideally, allow us to expand our brand reach. The 
possible acquisition of First Choice's Mainstream business 
and certain related operations, which we announced on 
27 November 2006, is one of a number of opportunities 
we are evaluating. While we believe that consolidation  
is both desirable and inevitable, it is not dependent on  
a successful outcome to any one of these opportunities.  
We will expand our participation in leisure growth 
markets, such as cruise distribution, independent  
travel and Non-Risk specialty packages. We will  
expand our current offerings into adjacent geographies, 
leveraging the capabilities of our management teams  
in Northern Europe and North America. In the UK,  
we will look to enter the domestic leisure market  
and cruise operations.
We have also adopted seven specific strategies to manage 
the business. We will anticipate and respond quickly  
to evolving consumer attitudes and demands. We will 
differentiate our products by focusing on customer 
relevance, quality and value. We will target profitability 
rather than market share by balancing the supply of 
holidays offered against demand. We will facilitate and 
support the move to the internet, while balancing and 
improving the effectiveness of the traditional distribution 
channels. We will maintain a rigorous approach  
to reducing costs while investing in, and developing, 
improved processes. We will continue the process of 
developing and improving the quality, motivation and 
effectiveness of our people. We will maintain a balanced 
financial strategy by focusing on cash management, 
hedging, prudent borrowing and adherence to best 
practice financial and accounting policies. 
Finally, we will conduct our business in an ethical and 
responsible manner, contribute to the communities in 
which we operate and respect the needs of customers, 
shareholders, staff, suppliers and the environment.  
This Annual Report includes an expanded review  
of the ways we are meeting our social and 
environmental responsibilities.
Outlook	
The Group continues to make good progress in improving 
the quality of its product offering, the differentiation of 
these products, the move to the internet, the employment 
of customer relationship management tools and cost 
cutting. We continue to target an operating margin  
of 3.5% in the UK, but only a significant improvement 
in market conditions will allow us to achieve this target 
in 2007. In December 2006, the UK government doubled 
Air Passenger Duty at short notice. Tour operators are 
uniquely prevented by law from collecting this tax  
from customers who have already booked, resulting in  
a significant unexpected additional cost to MyTravel in 
2007. We consider it unacceptable that the government 
should impose this new penalty, whose only justification 
is the need to raise funds, on an industry which is 
heavily regulated, without even giving the industry  
time to collect it from customers.
Once again, on behalf of the Board and the shareholders, 
I would like to congratulate Peter McHugh and his 
management team on their leadership of the Group. 
Again on their behalf, I would like to thank all the 
employees of MyTravel for their excellent contribution 
to the progress we have made to date, and the progress 
we will make in the coming year. 
In conclusion, we have a clear strategy, a strong 
management team and each year we are delivering  
an improvement in performance.
Michael	Beckett
Chairman
14 December 2006
SECTION
02