 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 08
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
We are pleased to report that the group made good trading 
progress throughout last year and that this has continued 
into the new financial year. This is despite the continuing 
difficulties in the economy as a whole and for consumers 
and retailers in particular.
We have achieved these positive results by maintaining a clear focus on improving 
the product, presentation, value and service to our customers. In addition 
we have invested heavily in our online systems, new customer recruitment, 
international expansion and concept stores which have the potential to be 
significant growth drivers in the medium term, although they reduce profits in 
the short term. The early signs from these activities look promising.
Financial Results
Total group revenue increased by 
6.0% to  784.7m versus the 52 week 
comparative and by 5.5% on a like-
for-like basis, excluding the non-
comparable periods for newly opened 
stores. Having seen a reduction in the 
rate of gross margin in the first half of 
1.6%, an equivalent increase in the 
second half resulted in an unchanged 
rate for the year of 53.0%.
Operating profit was up by 3. 1% to 
 102.2m, after accounting for losses 
of  6.8m from the expanded customer 
recruitment programme, international 
trading and the Simply Be/Jacamo 
stores. Excluding these items core UK 
home shopping profit rose by 7 .9% to 
 109.0m, despite the tough economic 
environment for consumers.
Profit before taxation was  96.4m 
(2012,  96.9m) but was up 2.6% to 
 95.1m after excluding the impact of 
the 53rd week last year and the fair 
value adjustments to financial 
instruments.
Adjusted earnings per share were 
28. 15p, almost identical to last year 
despite a slightly higher tax charge 
of 1 7 .6% (2012, 16.4%). The board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.23 pence 
per share, up 6.3% on last year , giving a 
total dividend for the year of 13.68 pence 
up by 5.0%, and covered 2. 1 times. 
Net borrowings at 2 March 2013 
reduced to  188.7m (2012,  192.5m) 
despite the continuing higher level of 
capital expenditure of  25.0m, primarily 
for online and stores development.
Net finance costs increased from 
 6.4m to  7 . 1m, covered 14 times by 
operating profit. Gearing has fallen 
from 48% to 42% on net assets which 
have risen by 10.9% to  446.0m.
Trading Highlights
The results for the year show the 
benefit of a portfolio of brands and 
the breadth of our product range 
which has enabled us to allocate our 
marketing investment to those areas 
giving the best return. Consequently 
we have seen the fastest growth, 
15%, from our younger brands, such 
as Simply Be, Jacamo and Fashion 
World, as it has been easier both to 
recruit new customers, predominantly 
online, and get higher sales from the 
existing customers. Conversely the 
brands targeted at the over 50's, 
such as JD Williams, Fifty Plus, 
Marisota and Julipa have exhibited 
slower growth, 1%, as these customers 
have continued to be cautious with 
their spending. However this group 
did increase revenue by 3% in the 
second half compared to flat sales in 
the first half.
 52 wks  53 wks   52 wks 
 m 2013  2012  % 2012  % 
Revenue 784.7 753.2 +4.2 740.3 +6.0 
Operating profit 102.2 102.0 +0.2 99.1 +3.1 
Adjusted profit 
before taxation 95.1 95.6 -0.5 92.7 +2.6 
Adjusted earnings 
per share (p) 28.15 28.91 -2.6 28.16 -  N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09
The continued investment to make our 
websites match best practice has been 
rewarded with an increase of 15% in 
online revenue to  424m, which now 
represents 55% of home shopping 
revenue. The increase also reflects the 
cultural changes we are making in the 
business to have everyone thinking 
from a multi-channel perspective.
Revenue grew in all our major product 
categories. Ladieswear recovered from 
a first half decline to grow by 4% in the 
second half, and by 1% for the year as 
a whole. Footwear and menswear grew 
by 5% and 8% respectively, capitalising 
on our size and fit expertise. However 
the fastest growth came from the home 
and gift category where sales grew 
by 15% and now account for 30% of 
group revenue. The more aggressive 
pricing policy on key value indicator 
lines in home and gift drove sufficient 
incremental volume to cover the lower 
rate of gross margin and, coupled 
with extensions to the product ranges, 
especially online exclusives, resulted in 
an encouraging performance.
Our international expansion is focused 
on building a presence in the USA, 
where revenue rose by 75% to  8.4m. 
We continue to believe there is a major 
strategic opportunity for the group to 
win a share of the $35 billion plus size 
ladieswear market in the USA, and 
we are building the marketing and 
operational capability to achieve this. 
We traded from seven Simply Be 
stores in the UK, three of which had a 
Jacamo menswear section, and these 
dual fascia stores have been the most 
successful. We are now evaluating the 
potential for rolling out this format in 
other major UK cities, recognising that 
they help to build brand awareness 
and online penetration in addition to 
the revenue transacted in the store.
Current Trading and Outlook
Sales for the 7 weeks to 20 April 
2013 are up by 6.3% on last year and 
by 6. 1% on a like-for-like basis. The 
cold weather in this period has had a 
significant negative impact on the sales 
of summer clothing but we have seen 
good performances from menswear 
and home and gift which have more 
than offset this issue. 
We started the new financial year with a 
stronger customer base than a year ago 
as a result of the increased investment 
in customer recruitment. We intend to 
maintain this higher level of recruitment 
activity and continue to drive the 
proportion of our revenue transacted 
online through positive trading actions, 
whilst at the same time reducing the 
volume of catalogue mailings through 
our contact optimisation programme. 
The trading teams are being reorganised 
to give greater focus on the key brands 
and the product development required 
to deliver growth in market share. In 
addition we are looking to give our 
customers more choice by offering 
more options for payment, delivery 
and ways to contact us.
Dedicated websites for Marisota and 
Jacamo are being launched in the USA 
to complement Simply Be to deliver a 
more segmented offer and maintain 
high growth momentum, and Figleaves 
is also looking to boost sales there. 
We will identify possible new sites for 
UK store expansion in the autumn 
once we have fully evaluated the 
potential of this channel and developed 
the essential features for a roll-out.
There are also major projects 
underway to assess the requirements 
of our information technology systems 
and processes and the operational 
capacity to ensure we can manage our 
anticipated growth in the medium term.
Although we expect market conditions 
to remain challenging, based on the 
stronger customer file and the planned 
activities to drive further growth, the 
board remains confident in the outlook 
for the business. I would like to thank 
all stakeholders in the business for their 
contribution, and especially all of the 
staff for their hard work and dedication 
throughout the year.
Board Composition
My appointment to the board in July 
2012 and accession to chairman in 
September 2012 was the start of 
a significant transformation of the 
board which will be completed during 
2013. I succeeded Lord Alliance of 
Manchester CBE when he stepped 
down to the role of non-executive 
director after over 40 years as 
chairman of the group. I have very 
much appreciated his wise counsel 
over the last few months.
Angela Spindler , currently the chief 
executive of The Original Factory Shop, 
will join N Brown Group as chief executive 
on 1 July 2013. She has had extensive 
retail and consumer experience at Coca 
Cola, Pedigree Petfoods, Asda and 
Debenhams. Angela will take over from 
our current chief executive, Alan White, 
who will retire to a plural career after 
1 1 successful years as chief executive 
and after an appropriate handover period 
to effect a smooth transition.
Nigel Alliance OBE retired in December 
2012 having been a director of the 
board since 1969 and Lord Stone of 
Blackheath stepped down after 10 years 
service on the board. We thank them 
both for an outstanding contribution.
We have now announced three new 
non-executive directors who will 
enhance the diversity of the board as 
well as ensure we comply with best 
practice in corporate governance. Ron 
McMillan was deputy chairman of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in the Middle 
East and will become chair of audit later 
this year and also our senior independent 
director. Fiona Laird, the senior vice 
president of human resources at 
Unilever PLC, will chair the remuneration 
committee. Simon Patterson, managing 
director at Silver Lake, will chair the 
nominations committee and brings 
extensive knowledge of the global 
technology industry including digital 
media and e-commerce. 
There has been significant change at the 
Board in the last few months. I wish to 
record my thanks and congratulations 
to the departing directors, particularly 
Alan White as CEO, who have delivered 
strong growth and returns for investors 
over the years. As the business 
continues its migration online, they 
have left strong foundations and I am 
confident that the new board has the 
right blend of skills and experience to 
build on those foundations and deliver 
growth in the future. 
Andrew Higginson