 02 napier brown foods plc annual report 2004
chairman's statement
Overview
I am pleased to present the results of the company for
the period ended 28 March 2004 and I would like to
welcome our new shareholders and thank them for
their support at the time of our flotation. We look
forward to keeping them informed of our progress and
to delivering some excellent results in the years ahead.
Napier Brown Foods plc was formed in July 2003 to
acquire three trading companies from a subsidiary of
Napier Brown Holdings Limited. These were Napier
Brown & Company Limited, Garrett Ingredients Limited
and Sefcol Ingredients Limited, and they were
acquired for an initial consideration of  35 million and
deferred consideration of  15.8 million. These
acquisitions were completed on 18 December 2003,
the day on which the company's shares commenced
trading on the Alternative Investment Market.
The results for the period under review, which show a
profit before taxation of  788,000, only include the
results of the trading companies since the
completion of the acquisitions on 18 December 2003
and do not represent a full year of trading. As the
company only commenced trading in its current
form in December 2003, there are no comparative
figures for this period.
In order to provide a measure of the improvement in
the group's year on year results we have included a
pro forma profit and loss statement showing the
combined trading results for the three companies we
acquired. The pro forma figures, which are set out in
the additional unaudited information to the financial
statements, show the adjusted results (excluding
non-recurring and public company costs) of the
operating companies for the full year. These show a
4.9 per cent increase in turnover to  194 million
(2003:  185 million) and a 21.8 per cent increase in
adjusted operating profit to  6.91 million (2003:  5.67
million). These are encouraging results for the
operating companies and we are benefiting from
the cost review and actions taken in 2002/3 which
included the closure of three sites allowing us to
focus our operations on our main site at Normanton.
When we acquired the subsidiary companies, they
were each managed by their own individual teams.
We intend to grow our
business through strategic
acquisitions and joint ventures
and where possible bring
consolidation to enable us to
reduce our cost base.  napier brown foods plc annual report 2004  03
In March we merged the three businesses into
one within Napier Brown & Company Limited. This
has enabled us to simplify control and decision-
making and will provide us with a solid base for future
expansion.
In February we entered into a lease of a warehouse
adjoining our Normanton factory, based near Leeds,
which has allowed us to reduce the number of
depots we were using from seven to two and which
will continue to assist us in reducing our working
capital requirement.
A major reason for becoming a public company was
to be able to use our shares and increased borrowing
power to build an integrated business within the UK
market supplying a range of food products to the
manufacturing, food services and retail sectors. The
current competitive marketplace, largely driven by
retailers, is having the effect of squeezing the supplier
base. We intend to use this situation to grow our
business through strategic acquisitions and joint
ventures and where possible bring consolidation to
enable us to reduce our cost base.
James Budgett
On 7 July 2004 we acquired James Budgett Sugars
Limited (JBS ) for approximately  17.4 million
payable as to  12.1 million in cash of which  500,000
is deferred until the second anniversary of
completion, with the balance satisfied by the issue of
4,186,046 new ordinary shares. The JBS acquisition is
a significant step forward in our strategy of acquiring
complementary companies and we intend to
integrate the administrative functions of JBS within
our existing structure as soon as we are able.
Through this acquisition we are delighted to
welcome ED&F Man as a shareholder. Also as part of
this agreement Napier Brown Foods and ED&F Man
(the world's largest sugar brokers) have agreed to
work together to take full advantage of any changes
in the sugar regime which may affect the UK market.
This purchase has strengthened our position in the
UK sugar market. We are now the largest
independent sugar merchant in the UK and your
directors believe that we are well positioned to take
advantage of the proposed changes to the sugar
regime. The expected reduction in the EU support
price for sugar will mainly affect the inefficient sugar 04 napier brown foods plc annual report 2004
chairman's statement continued
refiners within Europe and open up the market to
cheaper sugar imports.
As an independent merchant, we will have a wider
choice of supply and will be able to continue to
choose the most suitable and cost-efficient product
for our customers.
Equity fund-raising
As part of our initial funding, the company raised
 9 million (net of costs) through the placing of
9,090,909 ordinary shares at  1.10 each.  0.5 million
of the costs have been written off against the share
premium account, with the balance being treated
as part of the acquisition cost. In addition, 13,636,363
ordinary shares were issued to the Vendor as part of
the initial consideration
Since the year end a further 4,186,046 ordinary shares
were issued on the acquisition of JBS and these were
admitted to trading on AIM on 12 July 2004.
Bank finance
Bank finance was obtained from the Royal Bank of
Scotland to assist with the acquisitions.
The facilities include a fixed term loan of  4.0 million
at a rate of 1.5 per cent over LIBOR, a revolving credit
facility of up to  18.5 million at an initial rate of
1.75 per cent over LIBOR, and a working capital
facility of  5.0 million at a rate of 1.5 per cent over
LIBOR. The facility fees of  324,000 will be amortised
over the 8 year period of the loans.
Since the financial year end and to facilitate the
acquisition of JBS, the Bank has increased its
revolving credit facility by  4.0 million and provided
an invoice discounting facility of  11.0 million at a
rate of 1.625 per cent over base rate.
Acquisition costs
The consideration payable to Napier Brown Holdings
Limited for the three businesses acquired, based on
the adjusted profit of the operating companies for
the year ended 28 March 2004, is  50.8 million
(before completion accounts adjustments). Of this,
 20.0 million was paid in cash on completion,  15.0
I am confident that we can
look forward to further growth in
the year ahead. napier brown foods plc annual report 2004  05
million was satisfied by the issue of 13,636,363
ordinary shares in the company and the balance of
 15.8 million is represented by loan notes which are
repayable over the next two and a half years.
The costs of acquisition of the three trading
companies were  679,000. These have been
included in intangible assets as goodwill and will be
written off over 20 years.
Gearing
At 28 March 2004, the company had drawn down
 12.0 million of the Bank's facilities and had net cash
of  0.5 million. The net borrowings, excluding loan
notes, at 28 March 2004 of  11.5 million represent
gearing of 46 per cent.
The loan notes held by the vendor total  15.8 million
and bear interest at 0.5% above LIBOR. They are
repayable in three instalments:  6.5 million on
31 December 2004,  6.5 million on 31 December 2005
and the balance on 31 December 2006. Under
certain circumstances the loan notes payable in
December 2005 and December 2006 are convertible
into ordinary shares. Gearing at 28 March 2004,
including the loan notes, is 109 per cent.
Following the acquisition of JBS and the payment of
the initial cash consideration of  11.6 million, gearing
including the loan notes, has increased to
approximately 126 per cent. The group is cash
generative, but we do not expect to see any
significant reduction in bank debt until the loan
notes have been repaid.
Hedging
The company has taken steps to hedge its interest
rate exposure on borrowings. During the period the
company entered into two interest rate swaps, which
fix the interest rates payable on  12 million of our
borrowings at an average rate of 5.2 per cent for
eight years. The company is reviewing its interest rate
hedging strategy following the increase in debt on
the JBS acquisition.
The company also hedges foreign currency exposure
by forward exchange contracts to protect itself from
fluctuations in exchange rates.
The EU sugar market
The current Sugar Regime was introduced in 1968 as
part of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) to
support and protect the production of sugar within the
Community by establishing a stable market through
regulated prices and import and production quotas.
This has created a situation where prices for sugar in
Europe are higher than in the rest of the world. It has 06 napier brown foods plc annual report 2004
chairman's statement continued
now been agreed that some deregulation is
necessary, to improve access for  developing
country' producers and to reduce the subsidised
exports of surplus European sugar.
The expected reduction in the EU  support price' for
sugar will affect the less efficient sugar refiners within
Europe and open up the market to cheaper sugar
imports. In Europe, over the next few years, we expect
to see sugar prices fall, quotas cut, and imports rise.
As an independent merchant, rather than a refiner,
we believe that these changes will be positive for the
company.
Staff
Following our listing in December and having
effectively carried out four acquisitions in the last
eight months, it has been a challenging time for our
staff, a large number of whom are now shareholders
in the company. My co-directors join me in thanking
them for the efforts they have made in our first year
of trading. Without their commitment we would not
have achieved our excellent results.
Outlook
The results for the first quarter of 2004/5 are in line
with our expectations. With the reorganisation and
integration of Napier Brown, Garretts and Sefcol now
complete and with the additional benefits to flow
from the acquisition of James Budgett Sugars, I am
confident that we can look forward to further growth
in the year ahead.
P G Ridgwell
chairman
6 August 2004