 14
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2003 WAS AN
EXCELLENT YEAR
Michael Davies
Non Executive
Chairman
Our coach division marked its 30th
anniversary with a complete rebranding of
its operations, reinforcing our high quality,
value for money services. During this year
we have taken the business forward with
new, exciting marketing and pricing
initiatives which, together with the
introduction of a new concessionary fares
scheme in association with the Department
for Transport, have increased the overall
attractiveness of coach travel.We
experienced significant patronage growth
on our key routes, including the airport
services and, as a result, we carried a record
number of passengers during the year.
Within our Trains division, we have made
considerable progress working with the
Strategic Rail Authority (SRA ) in their rail
refranchising programme.We secured two
year extensions at Central Trains
(Central ), Great Northern and Wessex
Trains (Wessex ).We anticipate signing the
Silverlink two year extension this summer
and await news of the preferred bidder for
the ScotRail franchise.Two year extensions
provide a strong financial footing for our
franchises and give the Group a firmer base
from which to develop our train portfolio.
In January, we were awarded the new
Greater Anglia franchise by the SRA.This
franchise, which combines the existing Anglia
and Great Eastern franchises, and the West
Anglia Liverpool Street services (including
Stansted Express) from the Group's Wagn
franchise, marks the introduction of the first
of the new franchise template agreements.
This franchise will run for seven years with
an automatic extension of three years,
subject to the achievement of performance
and service quality targets set out by the
SRA. We now have a portfolio of seven
franchises which run until 2006 or beyond.
We look forward to welcoming our new
colleagues from Anglia Railways and Great
Eastern to the Group.
I am delighted to announce that
2003 was a year of significant
progress for the National Express
Group. Despite the market,
economic and business
challenges that we have faced,
we are very pleased with our
performance and I would like
to thank all our staff for their
contribution during the year.  15
We continue to work with Network Rail, other key suppliers
and the industry participants to improve the level of operating
performance.We are particularly encouraged to see consistent
patronage growth returning across all our train operating
companies (TOCs ).We welcome the major review of the
structure of Britain's railway announced by the Transport
Secretary in January 2004 and we are already playing an active
part in the consultation process.
During the year, the Wales and Borders franchise transferred
ownership to Arriva following three years of operation in which
the Group significantly developed this business. I would like to
take this opportunity to thank our employees for their hard
work during our tenure and we wish them well for the future.
Our bus operations delivered another strong set of results.We
were particularly pleased with the response to the Travel
Coventry branding which we launched at the end of last year.
The signing of the Coventry Concordat, which marked the
culmination of a partnership between Coventry City Council,
Centro and ourselves, is aimed at ensuring further development
of the bus network in the region.This initiative was supported
by Central Government which provided  35 million of funding
to improve bus priority measures and passenger facilities.We
have also introduced smartcards onto the network.We look
forward to the signing of the first bus industry statutory quality
partnership on our Castle Vale service in Birmingham.We
continue to work with Centro and the City Council to stabilise
traffic flows arising from the redevelopment of Birmingham city
centre to improve reliability of our services.
I am pleased to announce the acquisition of Connex's London
bus operations for a nominal consideration.This gives the Group
an important entry into the London bus market through
established depots in Battersea and Croydon.With 200 buses
operating twelve contracts on behalf of Transport for London,
this gives us the critical mass we require to develop our bus
operations in this fast growing market thereby increasing our
presence in the UK bus market overall.We welcome our new
colleagues from Connex bus to the business.
Our North American operations have continued to grow and
we improved profits despite the weakening dollar. Our student
bus operation continues to provide essential services to school
boards in 20 states and two Canadian provinces. Following its
first full year of contribution, our Canadian acquisition, Stock
Transportation, has proved to be a strong business run by an
experienced management team.The Canadian market with its
longer term contracts provides stability and, in common with the
United States, relies on strong relationships with school boards.
We look forward to increasing our presence within Canada.
The results from the public transit division showed year-on-year
improvement.We continued to exit poor performing contracts
and renew existing ones at higher rates to reflect the increased
cost of accident claims in the United States. Safety is a priority
and we were pleased to see the frequency of accidents reduce.
We are pleased with the performance of our Australian Bus
operation.
We continue to negotiate an exit from our shareholding in
Eurostar.These negotiations are expected to be completed
when the new structure for Eurostar is put in place.We are
committed to achieving a solution which benefits all parties as
soon as possible but will ensure we act in the best interests of
our shareholders.
THE BOARD  With my retirement from the Board taking place
at our next Annual General Meeting in May, I would like to thank
all the members of the National Express Group Board for their
support and contribution during the period of my Chairmanship.
I was Chairman of the Group at the time of its flotation back
in 1992 and it is very pleasing to see the progress and
developments that have taken place over the last decade.T oday
we are a leading international transport group with a sound
financial base and I look forward with confidence to watching the
Group capitalise on its many opportunities for further growth.
The process of recruiting a successor is well underway and an
announcement will be made before the Annual General Meeting.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Larry
Durham who has decided to retire from the Group. Larry
joined the Group in 1999 when we acquired Durham
Transportation, the company that he founded. Since joining he
has been responsible for the successful growth of our North
American operations.We are delighted that Larry has stayed
with us for nearly five years since we acquired his business. In
this time he has successfully integrated a number of major
acquisitions as well as established a strong management team.
We wish Larry all the best for the future. He leaves behind a
business that continues to perform well.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND  Turnover from continuing
operations increased by 6% to  2.6 billion (2002:  2.4 billion)
and normalised Group operating profit increased by 3% to
 134.6 million (2002:  130.9 million).After interest and the
Group's share of losses from associated undertakings, normalised
profit before tax was  105.5 million (2002:  106.8 million).
Normalised diluted earnings per share were 59.7p (2002: 60.3p).
The strong cash performance of the Group's continuing
operations continues with  139.7 million operating cash flow
(2002:  105.5 million). Our effective net debt has reduced
from  334.6 million to  307.8 million.
Given the Board's confidence in the Group's operations, as well
as its financial strength, we are recommending an increased final
dividend of 17.5p per ordinary share (2002: 16.4p) to be paid
on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at 13 April
2004. Including the interim dividend, the proposed total
dividend for the year is 26.0p (2002: 24.5p).
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK  We have made a
good start to the year. In the Bus division, we remain focused
on growing our UK business by delivering further bus priority
measures and investing in additional quality partnerships.We
look forward to signing the first statutory quality partnership in
the bus industry during this year.The acquisition of the Connex
bus business creates an important entry for the Group into the
London market.
Our Trains division continues to perform well and we expect
to build on this success during 2004.We are working closely
with Network Rail to gain further improvements in reliability
and punctuality.We are already well advanced with our plans
for the merging of the three TOCs which will create the new
Greater Anglia franchise, due for launch in April, and looking
forward to submitting our pre-qualification questionnaire for
the Intercity East Coast rail franchise.
The Coach division has started the year well and we anticipate
building on the growth we achieved last year.
We are encouraged by the opportunities in North America.
Our US student bus business is in its bidding season.We
remain confident of securing new business wins and retaining
our current contracts. Our entry into the Canadian market has
been successful and we are actively seeking opportunities to
expand this part of our business.
Overall, we look forward to the future with confidence.