 2010/11
39.28
36.37
33.68
38.49
35.64
33.00
2011/12 2009/10
rebased for
rights issue
2008/09 2009/10 2007/08
Chairman's statement
Results 
I am pleased to announce a good set of results for 201 1/12. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 1% to 51.3 pence per 
share, compared to 50.9
(i)
 pence per share in 2010/1 1. This increase 
is particularly pleasing in light of the significant timing differences 
and major storm costs incurred this year.
Dividend policy
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 25.35 pence per share 
making a total of 39.28 pence per share for the 201 1/12 financial 
year. This represents an increase of 8% from last year.
Our dividend is an important part of our returns to shareholders 
along with growth in the value of the asset base attributable to equity 
holders. This year is the last of our current dividend policy, which has 
been in place since January 2008. The Board has agreed a new one 
year dividend policy under which we plan to increase the dividend 
by 4% in nominal terms over the proposed dividend of 39.28 pence 
for 201 1/12. This policy reflects the outcome from the one year 
TPCR4 rollover review and forecast inflation of around 3% for 
the same period. It will apply to the interim dividend to be paid 
in January 2013 and the final dividend to be paid in August 2013. 
We expect to announce a longer-term dividend policy after the 
current regulatory review is complete and its implications are clear. 
Safety
This year has seen three fatalities occur. Any fatality associated with 
our business, whether an employee, contractor or member of the 
public, is deeply regrettable. Following thorough investigations, we 
are undertaking a wide range of measures to ensure we learn from 
these tragic events. 
Safety is a top priority and will remain at the forefront of our core 
objectives. The Board's governance arrangements for the oversight 
of safety are being strengthened and the Chief Executive is leading a 
new drive to further improve our safety performance. We will always 
be exposed to high risk working environments on a daily basis and 
embedding safety procedures and principles in our people is a key 
part of improving our performance. We continue to foster the belief 
across our businesses that all accidents can be avoided. 
Operating responsibly
We are mindful of our responsibility to the environments in which 
we operate and ensuring we continue operating in a socially 
responsible manner is fundamental to our continued delivery of 
sustainable profits and creating long-term value for our investors.
This year, we have made significant contributions across a number 
of areas including new education initiatives, such as the opening 
of the London tunnels energy education centre, our ongoing 
partnership with Special Olympics Great Britain and our work 
in the US on the engineering our future initiative. Our UK and US 
employees also continue to give up their time to volunteer and support 
community projects such as City Year. Details of a range of activities 
we and our employees support are available on our website.
Innovation is a key driver in our business, especially when it comes 
to connecting new sources of energy. The UK public debate around 
overhead lines versus underground cables provokes strong opinion 
and we are mindful of Government guidance when developing new 
connections and consider carefully the impact of our work on local 
communities. What is clear is that, at higher voltages, undergrounding 
is much more expensive. The right balance between landscape and 
affordability needs to be struck with society deciding whether it is 
Business Review
Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman
 We remain committed to growing 
National Grid, establishing long-term, 
sustainable shareholder value and 
ensuring that all our stakeholders' needs 
are considered while achieving our goals.   
Dividends per share
pence
25.35p
2010/1 1: 23.47p
The Board is proposing a recommended final dividend of
(i)  Comparative earnings per share data has been restated for the impact  
of the scrip dividend issues.
04 National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1/12 Governance
We are again committed to setting the tone at the top and look 
to adopt best practice in corporate governance. Personally, I am 
dedicated to this approach and will continue to ensure that, as 
a Board, we remain engaged in exploring ways that can further 
improve our performance. Further details on Board evaluation 
and effectiveness are provided on page 82. 
Outlook 
The Board and I remain committed to delivering increased 
shareholder value and returns. We are more focused than ever 
on improving our safety performance, recognising the need for 
all our employees and contractors to be able to operate safely on 
a day-to-day basis to enable our business to continue to operate 
at an optimum level. 
I extend my thanks to our US employees, who demonstrated 
outstanding commitment in responding to the severe storms 
experienced earlier this year, as well as to all our employees for 
their hard work and dedication to the success of the Company. 
This reinforces my belief that we are well positioned to meet 
the future opportunities and challenges we face. 
Sir Peter Gershon
willing to accept the higher cost. We continue to work with those 
concerned to inform the debate, while also exploring innovative 
solutions to issues such as the visual impact of pylons (see page 50). 
We have established a new energy partnership with the Buffalo 
Niagara medical campus which engages community stakeholders 
in innovative energy initiatives and helps support economic 
development and growth in the region. This partnership aims to set 
the benchmark for future energy efficient living and offers valuable 
insight into how people can embrace smart technologies in their 
everyday lives.
People
I am privileged to have taken over the role as Chairman of National 
Grid and would like to thank Sir John Parker for his personal 
contribution to the Company's success during his time as chairman, 
and for all the guidance and support he offered during my induction. 
I am delighted to be his successor.
A balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity is key to an 
effective Board and will remain a priority as we continue to refresh 
the composition of our Board over the next two years, as outlined on 
page 81. During the year, we welcomed Ruth Kelly and Paul Golby 
as Non-executive Directors. Both bring with them independence, 
knowledge and experience which will be invaluable as we address 
future opportunities and challenges. 
Furthermore, Nora Brownell will join our Board as a Non-executive 
Director from 1 June 2012. Nora brings with her a vast amount of 
experience of the US energy industry and regulatory environment 
that will help further strengthen our Board.
Stephen Pettit and Linda Adamany will step down from the Board 
with effect from 30 July and 31 October 2012 respectively. Both 
have made an invaluable contribution to the Board, with Stephen 
chairing our Risk & Responsibility Committee for a number of years. 
I would like to thank them both for their committed service.
We must continue to develop robust succession planning for 
our Directors and senior management by actively looking to 
recruit new and diverse talent into the business, and by ensuring 
our existing employees are developed and challenged to reach 
their full potential. Attracting new talent into the business through 
innovative recruitment drives, the development of new recruits, 
our apprentice schemes and the maintenance of our graduate 
programme as one of the industry leading programmes, will 
continue to form part of our focus.
The Board is aware of the ongoing discussions and opinions being 
voiced with regard to executive remuneration and the heightened 
profile of this topic. We acknowledge this is an important area for 
shareholders. Our new chair of the Remuneration Committee is 
focused on this matter and we have taken steps to enhance our 
disclosures as part of the Remuneration Report starting on page 90.
The Chairman's Awards, a global employee recognition scheme, 
are an excellent initiative introduced by my predecessor and I am 
delighted to offer these my full support. This year attracted more 
than 160 submissions and the winners will be announced in June. 
They provide a perfect illustration of the talent and tireless effort of 
our employees to make National Grid an improved place to work 
and to make positive contributions to local communities. We were 
particularly interested in ideas to improve safety and wellbeing in the 
workplace and are pleased that a number of the initiatives submitted 
really strove to go the extra mile and demonstrate innovation.
Chairman's Awards winner - The National 
Grid meter assessment and recycling 
centre (MARC) 
The winner of last year's environment award continues 
to make a valuable contribution. The centre not only 
recruits via the Young Offender and disability network 
schemes, it also continues to refurbish over 115,000 
meters a year and recycle 3,000 tonnes of waste - 
saving us money as well as really making a difference 
to the environment.
www.nationalgrid.com
05 Annual Report and Accounts 201 1/12 National Grid plc
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information