  
 
4
 
This year has seen the continuance of the return to form first evidenced last year, and in March 2007, I was able to 
announce a healthy profit of  78,000 before tax and amortisation on an increased turnover of  2.16 million for the six 
month period to 31
NBA Quantum Plc 
Chairman's Statement 
 
 
Introduction 
 
In my last statement, I explained that the Board had taken the decision to return to the fundamental principles that 
differentiate the company from its competitors and peers across all the markets that it works in.  
 
In 2006, we undertook a thorough review of Group performance and developed and implemented a framework around 
which the Group would pursue its future development - driving growth and profit upwards.  
 
The development of that framework has continued into 2007 with further changes to the management structure of the 
company and the reorganisation of certain elements of the business operation. 
 
st
 December 2006.   
 
This clearly demonstrated that the strategy was succeeding. 
 
Six months on, I am delighted to announce that this profit level has again risen significantly and we have posted a 
healthy final profit of  815,000 before tax and amortisation on a turnover of  3.9 million.  This profit of  815,000 
includes the exceptional profit of  571,000 arising on the disposal of the DMS business. 
 
This represents a gross turnaround in profit of  360,000 in the twelve month period and I am pleased to say that this is 
the strongest indication yet that we are back on track.   
 
Despite showing a measurable improvement in performance, our Chief Executive, Peter Elliott-Hughes said in 2006 
that we are not there yet  and I will repeat that sentiment again today. 
 
We are not there yet - there is still much to achieve. 
 
The fundamentals that are at the heart of the company have been rediscovered and the Chief Executive and his 
management team are looking at 2008 with a renewed sense of confidence. 
 
Business Review 
 
Performance 
 
As stated above, the problems of 2005/6 were a salutary lesson and the subsequent measures introduced by the Chief 
Executive began to pay dividends. 
 
These measures have vastly improved operating conditions, but the work does not end there.   
 
In 2006, the Board took the decision to write-off the balances that related to previous years and which were associated 
with the problems brought about by the previous management team. This resulted in a loss for the year of  127,000 
before tax and amortisation. 
 
However, whilst the medicine was unpleasant, even more work was undertaken during 2007 to improve performance 
and I am pleased to be able to announce that the Group has returned a sizeable profit for the year.   
 
The resultant turnaround of over  360,000 has been achieved by a great deal of hard work by all members of the team.   
 
5
 
This year we took the further decision to close TRCL's offices in Chichester and consolidate their operations in 
Guildford and this decision has again helped reduce current and future overheads and to improve operational efficiency. 
NBA Quantum Plc 
Chairman's Statement cont/d 
 
 
Group Companies 
 
Quantum International Consulting (QIC ) and Taylor Rumford Consulting (TRCL ) 
 
The turnover and profit contributed by the two UK businesses was a significant factor in these improved figures.  
 
TRCL was acquired in 2006 and as reported last year, both teams have worked very well together servicing clients in 
the UK and overseas. 
 
As part of the process, the decision was made in 2006 to relocate our head office from London to Guildford and close 
the Birmingham office. This offered opportunities to reduce significant unnecessary overheads. 
 
 
The offices in London Colney will also be relocated in the near future and in turn will allow us to realise further 
reductions in our overheads. 
 
The decision was recently made to introduce (and thus streamline) several time-consuming internal administrative and 
accounting processes, which will offer significant improvements in operational efficiency. 
 
It is the intention of the Board to consolidate TRCL into QIC in 2008, re-brand the resultant UK company and affect a 
further rationalisation of the UK / European management structure.   
 
The Board also hopes to announce further changes to the UK and European business in 2008, which we anticipate will 
further, strengthen and consolidate its position in the market.   
 
My thanks go to all concerned for their hard work and dedication. 
 
Bionic Productions 
 
Bionic Productions was a start-up company that brought many benefits to the Group through the provision of its multi-
media services.  However, after several years in which its performance was commendable, Bionics began to make 
significant losses principally as a result of a decline in the PFI market and in the demand for multi-media services 
generally.   
 
The Board allowed Bionics management the time and means to improve their performance, but it was unable to do so.  
Having made a loss in 2006 and further losses in 2007, the decision was taken to scale back the entire operation and 
remove the management team. 
 
The focus of the market in which Bionics currently operates is under review by the Board and a strategy to improve 
Bionics' results is being developed. 
 
Quantum International Consulting (Australia)(QICA) 
 
In 2007, as part of the new framework we installed a more focussed management team who have been charged with 
turning the performance of QICA around. 
 
We have not asked this team to deliver anything spectacular in 2007 as we prefer to focus on more immediate 
opportunities elsewhere, but nonetheless the team has been working to put the basics of a revised operational structure 
into place and we expect to see significant advances in the coming year(s).     
 
6
 
DMS International was sold at the end of 2006 through a management buy-out although the company remains a source 
of cash through the agreed repayment mechanism. The structure of the sale has also secured the goodwill of the 
business and DMS continues to offer significant opportunities for us upon the expiry of our non-compete period. 
NBA Quantum Plc 
Chairman's Statement cont/d 
 
 
We consider that Australia and the S.E. Asian region offers great potential for QICA and again my thanks must go to 
the team in Sydney. 
 
Lucid Edge 
 
Formed as a start-up in 2005, the company has continued to meet our expectations and my appreciation must go to 
Malcolm Beddows who has worked tirelessly to ensure that Lucid Edge delivers all that we believe it can.  
 
Between Lucid Edge and QICA the two businesses have delivered a profit of some  22,000 up from losses last year of 
 255,000. 
 
DMS International 
 
 
Quantum Qatar 
 
Founded in February 2007 as a joint venture between Quantum International Consulting and APM Project 
management, Quantum Qatar has thus far proven very successful.  
 
The results to-date have strongly indicated that the decision to move into the market in the Gulf was a sound one and 
the successes that have been achieved are a testimony to the efforts of the team there. 
 
The Board 
 
Last year, I was asked by Peter Elliot-Hughes to re-assume the position of Chairman thus allowing him to focus on the 
implementation of Group strategy and the development of the business as a whole.   
 
This has been very effective and I continue to work closely with Peter in addressing matters of strategy. 
 
Finance Director Angela McBride has been joined by Group Accountant, Sandra Lambert. 
 
Further rationalisation has taken place at Board level where John Fyfe joined us as our second Non-Executive officer 
alongside Mike Friend. 
 
Peter Taylor has decided not offer himself up for re-election, preferring to dedicate his time to dealing with technical 
matters associated with assignments.  
 
The Board will go into 2008 a more streamlined and dynamic structure and for 2008, we shall be forming a 
Management Board comprising key individuals from each regional company - UK and Europe, The Gulf and near East 
and Australia and S.E. Asia. 
 
Outlook 
 
We now have a much improved management structure and a great palette of opportunity with which to work and the 
Board's focus continues to be on strengthening the company and delivering solid results.  
 
More than ever, we feel that the company has regained a new lease of life and that there is a genuine impetus within the 
business to improve further.   
 
7
 
NBA Quantum Plc 
Chairman's Statement cont/d 
 
 
Summary 
 
I believe that we have done what we set out to do at the end of 2005, namely to address the fundamental problems that 
caused us to show below par results for the last two years.  
 
The Board rightly anticipates that the coming year will bring some very interesting developments and we look forward 
to 2008 and beyond with much anticipation. 
 
I hope that you have a very happy Christmas and a peaceful 2008. 
 
 
 
 
Robert G. Jervis 
Chairman 
 
 
Date: 19 December 2007 