 www.nccgroup.com 21 NCC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 22
Markets
Escrow - SaaS and a safe way back
NCC Group remains as one of the leading global providers of 
escrow services. The Group mandates quality; offering excellent 
value, quality and strong protection to customers, ahead of price. 
The Group does not intend to change that philosophy. 
The market dynamics have remained unchanged since the 
introduction of software escrow in 1982. Both public and private 
sector corporations and organisations still believe that they have 
several times more cover than they actually have. 
The purchase of escrow services is very rarely a centralised or 
co-ordinated purchase. Although it is increasingly more common  
for a procurement process to be involved, it rarely looks at the cover 
that should be in place and so most organisations are unaware that 
they are exposed, or by how much. 
This will ultimately get worse as organisations are not sure how  
to get escrow protection in hosted or co-located software as a 
service (SaaS) environments as there are a number of points that 
need to be considered when outsourcing the applications and 
hardware to as a service  environments.
The move to cloud computing still has not largely 
happened for businesses' critical applications, 
with the pace of change being slower than is 
generally publicised. But with low up front costs, 
rapid deployment and high scalability SaaS will 
continue to grow in popularity.
 
Eventually improvements in security, mobile and broadband Internet 
connectivity, as well as the continued global economic climate, will  
see some business critical applications outsourced into the cloud.  
Whilst source code software escrow will still provide business continuity 
and protection, the solution needs to take into consideration the 
environment and infrastructure in which the application is operated. 
The failure of a traditional application owner is typically not 
accompanied by the loss of infrastructure, data, Internet 
communications and application support, all of which can  
be lost following the failure of a SaaS owner. 
In order to protect customers from a SaaS owner failure or the 
breakdown of the relationship as the service levels are not delivered,  
a mechanism has to be put in place, cost effectively, that addresses  
the fundamental infrastructure, data, communications and IT support 
issues. Mechanisms to address these issues by duplicating 
infrastructure and data are not cost effective for most SaaS customers. 
What is needed is a mechanism to allow time for the customer  
to transition to an alternative for the infrastructure, data and 
communications used to run the application uninterrupted if the 
SaaS supplier fails. Many SaaS vendors already use infrastructure 
as a service (IaaS) for either their primary or business continuity 
platform for the same reasons customers are turning to SaaS  
for their applications. This provides them with low up front costs, 
rapid deployment and high scalability.
NCC Group's solution to this is to deliver a cost effective service  
for customers that keeps the infrastructure and communications 
used to run the SaaS solution, provided by a third party 
infrastructure provider, still operational. Not having this capability  
as part of the solution will cause an interruption of service for the 
customer, which is an unacceptable risk where business critical 
SaaS applications are being used.
Infrastructures needed by SaaS vendors with large numbers of 
concurrent users require significant numbers of virtual servers both 
for the primary platform and consequently for the corresponding 
business continuity platform. IaaS vendors will provide virtual servers 
inexpensively as long as these servers are dormant. 
 
For this reason the products NCC Group is developing provide 
protection to SaaS customers regardless of whether the IaaS is 
used for the SaaS vendors' primary or business continuity platform. 
As an IaaS based solution, NCC Group SaaS 
Escrow has by far the greatest potential to 
provide SaaS customers with the protection 
many are seeking at a price they can afford. 
Operational and 
Financial Review 
www.nccgroup.com 22
Gartner: Survey analysis: 
buyers tell us about SaaS 
and cloud adoption through 
2014, November 2012. www.nccgroup.com 23 NCC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 24
Assurance - The need for change  
in the cyber world
Improvements in security have failed to keep up with the  
ever-increasing pace of function led improvements in technology, 
but with that has been an acceptance that being hacked is now  
an everyday experience. A once traumatic event that would have 
attracted considerable publicity today hardly warrants a footnote, 
unless it is of a scale, magnitude or complexity that could shock 
even a hardened security expert. 
The sophistication of hackers is now at a level that would not 
embarrass a government operation but more ominously governments 
are becoming more open about the level of their operations, as they are 
clearly becoming more engaged in complex cyber warfare - both within 
their own country and against other perceived cyber hostile nations. 
The frequently disclosed security breaches, 
hacks and data losses are making it difficult  
to judge whether the ordinary individual now  
has a resigned reluctant acceptance that the 
internet has become a largely lawless place  
and that Nation State Internet eavesdropping  
has become just one of those things . 
Certainly the lack of backlash for revelations such as the recent  
US PRISM scandal seems to suggest that the majority of ordinary 
individuals do not mind if they are in fact observed by the nation that 
they live in. However in terms of control of personal financial data 
and individual identity, corporations and governments really need  
to treat it more seriously. 
Part of this remains an NCC Group theme, that there is a clear  
and pressing need to increase standards in cyber defences from 
large corporations to governments through to consumers. One way 
to prompt this is by increasing transparency around security. 
This transparency must cover the way businesses view, act and 
respond to cyber security issues. They must also set out the 
reporting of corporate breaches and the consequences for those 
affected, as well as mapping out how incidents should be dealt with. 
Until organisations are publicly held to account for security breaches, 
there will be a lack of incentive for them to implement stringent 
digital policies and infrastructures.
The answer lies within enterprises themselves to strengthen 
significantly their corporate networks, test their protections 
vigorously and prepare a clear and comprehensive operational 
response plan. This will happen if there is better transparency,  
as admitting that a corporate security system failed can only serve  
to damage reputation and weaken customer trust, which should  
be motivation enough!
The adoption of .secure and the policies, processes and protocols 
that it mandates will help drive this change. By subscribing to the  
.secure framework, the hard work of determining and driving change 
is done within. Through a team of the most globally recognised 
organisations, ranging from internet pioneers through to retailers  
and the largest financial institutions, all sectors and user groups  
are being considered. Allowing the creation of commonly accepted 
policies that mandate best practice of internet and information 
security is the best starting point. 
Overlaying that in an environment where only the organisation  
with the actual right to the domain can apply to own it and all  
of its algorithmic derivatives and lookalikes, will aid the user  
so that the most common spoof attacks become impossible  
to create. Whilst it will never ensure that a site or an organisation  
will not be hacked, it significantly blunts the hackers' armoury  
of basic tools.
This type of change needs to happen, acceptance 
of being hacked and compromised should not be 
an accepted consequence of using the Internet. 
Operational and 
Financial Review 
23 NCC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
Gartner: Bring Your Own 
Device: the facts and the 
future, May 2013 www.nccgroup.com 25 NCC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 26
Rob Cotton
Chief Executive
NCC Group plc
4 July 2013
Current trading
 
The Group's good growth track record was slowed briefly by a number 
of unrelated issues as it consolidated the various business units to 
exploit the scale and international reach that has now been attained.
 
All of the issues have been addressed, although Intrepidus has yet 
to be fully integrated. More importantly, a structure is now in place 
that will allow the Group to benefit from the significant opportunities 
that exist across Assurance's markets. 
The whole organisation is totally focused on client risk mitigation and 
delivering peace of mind, through a complementary range of services 
offered to multinational clients to address their business issues. 
Artemis continues to develop its systems, processes and policies, 
with a view to being able to offer a service to its customers through 
.secure or its own branded gTLD during the second half of the 
financial year. This complex development is on time and budget.
Integrity and credibility, alongside technical 
capability, are the leading cultural values  
of the Group. This ensures the Group remains  
an independent, unbiased organisation and 
maintains its place as the trusted provider  
of choice in a security marketplace. 
The start to the year sees Group Escrow renewals at  18.0m  
up from  17.7m in the year to 31 May 2013 and a verification  
order book of  2.3m of which  0.7m relates to Escrow Europe  
and Escrow US. 
The Assurance division order books have improved to  24.2m 
(2012:  19.7m) and have  6.5m (2012:  5.8m) of monitoring 
renewals forecast for the current financial year. 
The outlook for NCC Group remains very good  
in growing markets.
Operational and 
Financial Review 
www.nccgroup.com 26
Technology Strategy Board: 
Revolution or evolution? 
Information Security 2020, 
June 2013