   Nestor Healthcare Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
2006 was a transformative year 
for Nestor. The demerger of the 
Staffing business to form the  
AIM-traded Pinnacle Staffing 
Group, completed in September 
2006, enables our management 
to focus exclusively on providing 
service solutions to the Social Care 
and Primary Care markets where 
there are significant opportunities 
for growth.
 
On 7th March 2007 the Group 
completed a rights issue, raising 
 32.5m, which will enable 
these opportunities to be more 
effectively pursued. The Board 
acknowledges the support it has 
received from its shareholders  
and bankers and looks forward  
to making good use of the  
capital provided. 
Results summary 
The results of Healthcare Staffing are reported 
as discontinued operations .
   006  2005
Continuing operations:
Revenue    7 .6m  205.7m
Operating profit    8.6m   17.4m
Profit before tax    3.8m   11.8m
Earnings per share -  
  continuing operations   0.3p  9.3p 
(Loss)/profit from  
  discontinued operations  ( 0.5m)  1.8m
The loss from discontinued operations 
comprises the previously reported goodwill 
write down of the Healthcare Staffing 
business, totalling  14.5m, plus trading  
losses and the cost of the demerger process.
Results from continuing operations 
     006  2005  
  Operating  Operating 
 Revenue profit Revenue profit
Social Care    .4m    4. m    112.4m  13.5m
Primary Care   6 . m   4.4m   93.3m   3.9m
T otal   7 .6m    8.6m   205.7m   17.4m
Social Care
These business units provide community 
services, primarily homecare, to Local 
Authorities and private patients through 
a network of 142 owned branches with a 
further 127 franchised operations branded  
as Carewatch.
The reduction in revenue is due mainly to the 
full year effect of contract losses in the first 
half of 2005, most notably the Staffordshire 
contract where we withdrew our tender 
due to the onerous nature of the contract 
provisions. Revenue in the second half of 
2006 was marginally ahead of the same 
period in 2005. Looking ahead, revenue is 
expected to grow from the full year effect 
of the contract wins over the last twelve 
months including the previously announced 
Hertfordshire contract, which is anticipated to 
generate revenues of approximately  10m per 
annum, and to contribute to profit in 2008 
following the restructuring costs incurred in 
2007. The contract commenced in February 
2007 and our performance to date in 
delivering the standard of service required  
has been excellent.
The primary purpose of the rights issue 
was to enable the Group to return to the 
previously successful acquisition programme, 
adding small domiciliary care businesses in 
geographic areas where the current network 
is not represented; as well as more specialist 
businesses, for example in learning disabilities, 
which extend the Group' s expertise and 
service offering. Two such acquisitions have 
been completed since the year-end and 
discussions are under way on a number of 
other suitable opportunities. The acquisition 
programme in 2003 and 2004 created the 
Medico network of branches, which have 
performed consistently well and in 2006 
Medico has again increased both its volume 
and profitability. 
Social Care margin has continued to improve 
to 12.7% from 12.1% reported in 2005. This 
increase stems largely from the growth of the 
higher margin businesses within the division, 
including Medico and the two privately 
funded homecare businesses, Country Cousins 
and Patricia White' s, both of which had an 
excellent year, and Carewatch, which is a 
franchise model, where much of the income is 
derived from a management service fee.
Primary Care
Primary Care comprises Primecare Primary 
Care, which provides unscheduled care 
services to Primary Care Trusts (PCT s) and 
out-of-hours services to GPs; and Forensic 
Medical, which delivers primary care services 
in secure environments and to Police 
Authorities.
Chairman's statement
 The primary purpose of the rights issue was to enable 
the Group to return to the previously successful 
acquisition programme, adding small domiciliary care 
businesses in geographic areas where the current 
network is not represented. 
John Rennocks Chairman 3  Nestor Healthcare Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Primecare Primary Care continued to 
improve its profitability in spite of the 
anticipated reduction in revenue from  52m 
in the previous year to  41m following the 
finalisation of the transfer of out-of-hours 
care to PCT s. The business has continued 
to improve its operational efficiency whilst 
maintaining a high level of service, which we 
believe is amongst the best in the sector. The 
restructuring of PCT s and Strategic Health 
Authorities has meant there have been few 
new business tenders in recent months but 
the expectation is that the coming year will 
present more opportunities both with our 
existing customer base to extend our current 
services, as well as with additional PCT s 
with whom we do not currently contract. 
The focus of management in Primary Care 
has rightly been directed towards service 
excellence and efficiency as the market has 
gone through significant change. Investment 
is now being made to improve our business 
development capability to ensure we are 
better equipped to tender effectively for 
the opportunities we expect to arise in the 
coming year. 
Forensic Medical continues to perform 
to expectations with a number of tender 
opportunities expected in both the Police 
business and in prisons and other secure 
environments where PCT s have assumed 
responsibility for healthcare provision. 
Cash flow
Year-end net borrowings were  76.7m (year-
end 2005:  79.9m), a net inflow of  3.2m 
despite a net outflow from discontinued 
operations of  5.0m. Cash flow from 
continuing operations totalled  20.2m (2005: 
 20.2m), with continued improvements in 
working capital management; debtor days 
outstanding of 37 days represented the best 
achieved at any year-end point and compare 
to 40 days at the end of 2005. 
This period' s cash flow includes the sale, in the 
second half of the year, of our 51% stake in 
Care Monitoring 2000, a business providing 
software capable of monitoring care worker 
attendance; net proceeds from the sale 
totalled  0.8m in the year. 
Bank facilities 
The Group reduced its banking facilities to 
a total of  80m as part of the demerger 
process. These facilities remain in place at 
this level after the rights issue, significantly 
increasing the financial flexibility of the Group.
T axation
The tax charge for the year was  4.2m (2005: 
 3.1m), equivalent to 30% of taxable profit 
(2005: 27%). The underlying tax rate for 
the Group remains at 30%, savings having 
been made in 2005 following the successful 
outcome of settlements and claims from 
earlier years.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 2.0p per share (2005: 2.0p) payable on 
1st June 2007 to shareholders on the register 
on 4th May 2007. The payment of the 
final dividend will be made to the holders 
of approximately 112m shares following 
completion of the rights issue at a cost of 
 2.25m, compared to last year' s final dividend 
payment of  1.75m. The final dividend is in 
addition to the interim dividend of 1.0p per 
share (2005: 1.0p) paid in October 2006. 
Employees
This has been a turbulent year for the Group 
and its employees and, on behalf of the 
Board, I thank them all for their continuing 
contribution to the recovery of Nestor from 
the previous difficult trading circumstances.
Board changes
Dr Bill Holmes resigned from his position as 
the Group' s Medical Director and left Nestor 
on 31st December 2006. Ingrid Alexander 
resigned as a non-executive director with 
effect from 2nd March 2007. As the two 
longest serving members of the Board both 
Bill and Ingrid made important contributions 
during a time of dramatic change in Nestor' s 
markets for which I thank them, and I wish 
them both well for the future. 
Outlook
The Board believes the demerger of the 
Healthcare Staffing business to have been 
in the best interests of both companies and 
now allows Nestor to focus wholly on its 
service-based strategy. The funding from the 
rights issue presents management with the 
opportunity to build upon the strength of 
its market position in Social Care and also 
to make the investment in management 
capability to extend our Primary Care activities. 
Elements of the markets in which we operate 
are beginning to show the first signs of 
converging as PCT s take a wider responsibility 
for out-of-hospital care. The performance of 
our business and the excellent service quality 
of both Social Care and Primary Care mean 
we are well placed to support PCT s and Local 
Authorities to meet the significant challenges 
they face. 
John Rennocks, Chairman  
8th March 2007
 
 The performance of our business and the 
excellent service quality of both Social Care and 
Primary Care mean we are well placed to support 
PCTs and Local Authorities to meet the significant 
challenges they face.  