 3
The year ended 30 June 2005 saw Netb2b2 reaping the benefits of the operational changes and investments made in 
all our divisional companies during the previous year.  I am delighted that we moved ahead on all our key financial 
indicators with organic growth in turnover, profit and earnings per share.  This is a good indication that we have a 
successful strategy in place and importantly all the divisional businesses are now positioned for further growth with 
particular scope for increased scalability in cScape and Blue Sky.
Stability and growth in the operating businesses, strong operational management in each division and a healthy financial 
position has meant that senior management has had more time to devote to significant acquisitions, the first of which, 
Fernhart New Media, we announced we had completed in September 005.  
Financial Results Summary
The Group's overall financial performance for the year is summarised below:
 2005 2004
  000  000
Turnover for Group 6,303 5,65
Operating profit before exceptional item 132 1
Exceptional Item (8) -
Net interest paid (9) ( 4)
	 	 	 	 Group profit/(loss) for the year before tax 95 (23)
Taxation 9 -
	 	 	 	 Group profit/(loss) for the year after tax 114  (23)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Overall the Group's financial performance was very encouraging, with significant improvement in turnover and 
operating profit, which enabled us to achieve a post tax profit of  114,000 (2004: loss  23,000).  For the reported 
year the business had three main areas of activity: internet services (cScape and NetPen), publishing and digital 
communication services (ITM) and specialist hosting (Blue Sky). 
As can be seen from Note , year on year turnover growth came across all our operations, with the biggest contribution 
coming in internet services.  This continues the trend reported previously and shows that cScape is indeed going from 
strength to strength. Profit before tax also increased in all three areas - showing that organic growth is now starting to 
translate into profitability following the changes we made in the year to 30 June 2004. 
This is reflected in the figures with an increase in earnings per share to 2.3p per share (Restated 2004: loss 0.6p).  Net 
assets also grew to  2.03 million (2004:  1.70 million) and cash at bank as at 30 June 2005 stood at  571,000 (2004: 
 478,000).
The directors are not recommending the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2005, as we feel it is 
important to re-invest in our operations and keep cash available for acquisition activity.  We will however continue to 
review this on an ongoing basis.
NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 4
Operational Review
As highlighted above all divisions performed well and achieved increases in turnover and profit.  Margins remain 
stable and new business wins over the reported period have been numerous across the Group.
cScape Strategic Internet Services (cScape )
Our consultancy business, cScape, led by Rob Killick should be congratulated.  The team has turned in an impressive 
performance this year and the directors consider this has justified the investment we made in the sales and marketing 
function.  They maintain a very high retention rate for existing clients whilst adding new ones.  cScape has a growing 
portfolio of  significant clients including CIPD, CILIP and Carbon Trust with multi-year relationships and contracts 
giving us comfort in terms of earnings visibility for this subsidiary.
cScape added clients in both the commercial and public sectors with notable wins including: Barclays Bank plc along 
with several local authorities including Tower Hamlets and Lewisham Council.  The company's status as a Microsoft 
Gold partner, the development of further .Net tools based capabilities such as BizTalk and Commerce Server to 
complement the original CMS focus and the addition of a design practice have enabled the company  to continue 
to address a wider market with a deeper proposition ranging from business consulting through to implementation 
services.  This shift has given cScape access to the clients' boardrooms where it can advise on a company's overall IT 
strategy and its link to business to complement the traditional IT functional focus.  This fulfilment across the whole 
decision making chain leads to bigger contracts and higher margins.
Blue Sky Hosting (Blue Sky )
Blue Sky, a key UK IBM business partner and a leading provider of Application Hosting, enjoyed its first full year of 
benefit from the acquisition of Esna Hosting.  Having focused on maintaining and retaining its client base immediately 
after the acquisition of ESNA during the first six months of the reported period it extended its focus to include heavier 
marketing for new business which bore fruit in the form of contract wins with clients such as: Sanctuary Housing, 
Riverford, Magirus, Greater Manchester Police and Bromley Council.
Overall client churn was low and hosting provides high and stable margins.  With a strong and stable client base the 
next stage is to add a managed services business, which can leverage the hosting capabilities of Blue Sky.  We are 
currently exploring a number of acquisition opportunities, which would enable us to achieve this.
ITM Graphics (ITM )
ITM, the Group's publishing and digital communication services subsidiary, managed a small year on year increase in 
both revenue and profit before tax, which was pleasing given that the market in which it operates has continued to be 
challenging.  As more publications take pre-press in-house ITM will continue to concentrate on broadening the range 
of services it offers and we expect to see continued reasonable profit performance in this business
NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 5
NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
NetPen UK Limited (NetPen )
NetPen continues to progress and although it has yet to win its first client, we have worked hard on expanding our 
partner networks, defining the service offering and marketing to corporates.  Accordingly we now have developed 
relationships outside of just Hewlett Packard with notable links to Nokia and Anoto. Market opportunities look 
particularly promising in the airline sector, NHS and supporting the mobile professional market.
Advisory Committee
We announced in February 005 that we had formed an advisory committee, which consists of three eminent businessmen 
Sir William Proby, Dr James Bellini and David Montgomery.  Each has a distinguished business career and their 
experience spans a number of key sectors for the Group including; professional bodies, NGOs, local government and 
public sector and media.  The formation of the advisory committee has been of great benefit to the Group as it has given 
us access to an additional pool of experience and advice, complementary to that offered by the Board.  On behalf of 
shareholders I would like to welcome them to Netbband thank them for their contribution.
Post period end activity
Acquisition of Fernhart New Media Limited (Fernhart )
We announced in September 2005, after the end of the reported period, that we had completed the acquisition of 
Fernhart for a total consideration of up to  2.5 million.  This comprised an initial consideration of  125,000 in cash; 
the issue of 706,880 new ordinary 10p shares at a price of 53.05p per share, amounting to  375,000; and a deferred 
consideration comprising the allotment of Ordinary Shares of up to a value of  2 million depending on the performance 
of Fernhart in each of the three years ending 30 June 008.
Fernhart offers consultancy that designs, builds and maintains web sites and interactive television (DiTV ) services 
for businesses.  The company specialises in a number of sectors including broadcast media, financial services, gaming, 
insurance, property, public services and institutions.  Its experienced DiTV business has delivered full transactional 
systems, complete user interfaces and consultancy services for a number of high profile clients.  Companies which 
Fernhart has supplied services to include: BBC, ITV plc, BSKYB plc, BACC, Sporting Index, Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors, Royal Yacht Association, Atlas International, PR Shots and Iberian International. Fernhart also 
holds licences for a range of betting games that it is developing for the burgeoning gambling sector and plans to 
develop these games for both the web and Interactive TV .
We were delighted that Fernhart recently announced that it was launching a new internet based racing information and 
gambling portal to be called OneStopRacing.com. This portal will provide comprehensive horse racing and betting 
information with links to leading bookmakers and betting exchanges. The service will be free to customers who will be 
able to analyse racing data using a range of criteria, view bookmakers odds and receive free tips from racing experts.  
Fernhart has already signed affiliate agreements with a number of partners including Victor Chandler, Sporting Index 
and Profitable Play (Jackpot Joy) and reached an agreement for the provision of a OneStop branded betting interface 
enabling bets to be placed with a wide range of bookmakers.   6
NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Current Trading and Outlook
The acquisition of Fernhart has moved the Group onto a different level and is, we believe, a sign of things to come.  
Early indications are that Fernhart is benefiting from group synergies, particularly cScape's Microsoft Gold certification 
along with leveraging new opportunities off the back of Blue Sky's hosting capabilities.  Across the whole Group we 
can offer clients a higher level of expertise and we are increasingly targeting bigger corporate clients.  The interactive 
media market and in particular the on-line gambling market in which Fernhart operates is experiencing real growth and 
we hope as a Group to capitalise on this.
Outside of that we remain strong within the public and local government sectors and our businesses (particularly 
cScape, Blue Sky and Fernhart) are all performing well in the first months of trading this year.  ITM is still facing a 
challenging market, but despite churn is maintaining a steady level of turnover and acceptable profitability and NetPen 
which is still in its infancy has yet to contribute to the overall profitability of the Group.
Given our continued improved financial and business performance we are even more focused on suitable acquisitions 
which will bring synergy with our existing operations and which will provide the opportunity of building upon the 
progress we have achieved to date.
Keith Young  31 October 2005
Chairman