 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Overview
The year under review has seen the acquisition of Custom Micro Products Limited (  CMP'') as detailed below.
During the year the Group disposed of its subsidiary company, Newmark Onroerend Goed SA, a property holding
company in Belgium. Since the year end, NSP Europe Limited (  NSP'') has been sold and Concept Hardware and
Security Solutions Limited (  Concept'') has been closed. We had been hopeful that both of these businesses
would grow over the last two years to eliminate the trading losses that they had been incurring. However, as
these levels of activity have still not been achieved, the decision was made to dispose of these two operations
and eliminate the losses that were still being incurred. The results of these two businesses are included within
discontinued operations for the year under review.
Acquisitions and share issues
The Group acquired the entire issued share capital of CMP, for a total consideration of  2.725 million (before
costs and interest discount adjustment). Further details are included in note 23 to the financial statements.
The initial consideration of  800,000 was satisfied by cash on completion, with two tranches of deferred
consideration of  1.4 million and  525,000 respectively, the latter payable on the basis of the profit before tax
for the year ending 30 April 2005.
In order to part fund the acquisition of CMP, the Group raised an additional  1,700,000 (before expenses)
through a placing of 136,000,000 ordinary shares at 1.25p per share.
Financial results
The operating profit for the year was  414,000 (2004: loss  523,000).
The operating profit for the year for continuing operations before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
was  1,519,000 (2004:  935,000), both figures exclude the operating losses of  734,000 and  1,160,000 from
the discontinued businesses.
Turnover for the year for continuing operations was  12.3 million (2004:  8.7 million). The main commercial
factors affecting the results of the divisions are set out below.
Electronic Division
Turnover  6,682,000 (2004:  4,032,000)
Operating profit  1,350,000 (2004:  828,000)
The combined access control operation comprising Grosvenor and Newmark Technology was ahead of plan for
the year. CMP's sales for the ten months from date of acquisition were  2.5 million for the period under review.
The previously anticipated major end-user sales opportunities did not materialise and, as a result, profits were
lower than the projected level.
Sales of Siteguard Access (manufactured by Tyco under license from Grosvenor) remain strong and a new
training initiative by Grosvenor has directly targeted the ADT branch network. This will endorse the position of
the Siteguard product within the Tyco/ADT portfolio and should increase sales where some branches have yet to
be converted to the product.
Grosvenor continues to develop its core product, JANUS access control, and has released a new software
module to allow generic CCTV control and integration. The product will be further developed to include
multiple CCTV systems within the same JANUS platform and is due for release early next year. Also being
developed is an Enterprise edition where multiple JANUS access systems can have their personnel
administration managed from a single database source.
We have developed and released a brand new high-end access control product, N-TEC Access (  N-TEC''). A
distribution deal with Simplex and Thorn International has already been agreed, where N-TEC will be
interfaced directly to their fire systems and sold exclusively throughout the Middle East, Africa and Russia
(  MEAR''). The product was launched in July 2005 in Abu Dhabi, UAE, and Amman in Jordan. MEAR is a brand
new territory for the company with orders already being processed. N-TEC, being unique to Newmark
Technology will run side by side with the third party C.Cure business and provides a new opportunity to
revitalise sales which will be entirely under the company's own control.
The combined sales of Newmark and Grosvenor remain on-plan for the current year and are expected to remain
so for the remainder of the period.
Newmark Security PLC
3 The underlying business trends remain strong, particularly for Grosvenor, with a continuing steady volume of
core business. Other contracts, some of which have been delayed from last year, are being sought and due to be
placed in the coming period and include a major bank looking to upgrade its entire security infrastructure,
defence companies and government facilities.
CMP is a leader in the UK market for Time & Attendance (  T&A'') terminals and associated peripheral equipment,
including access control and shop floor data collection equipment. The company has well established sales
channel alliances in the UK, USA and Europe and is a UK sales channel for T&A software.
CMP is set to benefit from synergies with Grosvenor Technology, where mutual cooperation is enhancing the
Group's access control and T&A offering, particularly into new export markets. Recent promising discussions
with new potential partners in the UK suggest that an additional share of the UK T&A market is available and
CMP is diligently pursuing these prospects. CMP is also taking steps to secure and enhance it's presence in the
US market, through opening an additional sales channel.
CMP maintains a UK based product development and production capability and is seeking to reinforce its
current position in the T&A marketplace, whilst looking to exploit its capabilities to broaden its product base
and take full advantage of its strong market position.
Asset Protection Division
Turnover  5,666,000 (2004:  4,694,000)
Operating profit  787,000 (2004:  720,000)
Safetell's trading throughout the year was broadly in line with plan with the major benefit of a single
programme of work for Abbey through the summer of 2004 to achieve revenue growth of 21 per cent over
the previous period. However, that large programme was at lower than usual margin. The new maintenance
work for HBoS that was started in March 2004 and the revised tender/contract for The Post Office were also
at lower than normal margin. These two factors on the product mix depressed the overall gross margin by
4.2 per cent compared to the previous year. Overheads were controlled to the essentials required to manage
the additional business level, resulting in a rise in operating profit of 9 per cent compared to last year.
The Eclipse rising screen programmes were maintained with long-term customers in retail finance and petrol
retailing. For the first time, the value of reconfiguration/refurbishment works for Eclipse exceeded the value of
new installations.
Both CounterShield and Eye2Eye were successful during the year with increases in revenue compared to the
previous year of 21 per cent and 488 per cent respectively. The new customers for these products have been
mainly Police Authorities and this market opportunity is being pursued vigorously with other forces.
The demand for RollerCash and BiDi Safe cash handling equipment is dependent on the roll-out programmes of
established customers. Order intake from The Post Office for a specific programme was very high in the later
months of the year but during June 2005 this project was put on hold with only one third of the originally
expected value completed. New interest in this product range is being expressed by both historical and new
retail finance customers who are tending towards an open plan format requiring secure cash management at
the work station.
The development of the new product (  CashCycler'') by the OEM supplier has been severely delayed by technical
problems and the first unit has only just been made available in July 2005. Much testing and training will be
required before this product will generate any significant volume.
Changes to the premises of service providers to comply with the Disability Discrimination Act in October 2004
continue to fuel demand from public bodies to make reasonable adjustments to their service areas. Police
authorities, public train and bus ticketing organisations, central and local governments are proving to be a
good source of work for all forms of screens as the best defence against violence in the front office/reception
areas.
The service and maintenance business continues to increase pro-rata to the installed base of primary
equipments. During the year new contracts were won to maintain all screen systems for a number of clients,
irrespective of the screen OEM.
The early months of the current year are affected by the delayed Post Office contract works and performance
will be below plan in the first half year.
Newmark Security PLC
4 The prospects for the second half are more difficult to predict but the level of outstanding quotations and
orders is promising and a number of excellent prospects for major roll-out programmes offer good grounds
for growth.
Balance sheet and cash  ow
The balance sheet varies significantly from last year with the acquisition of CMP. Goodwill on the acquisition
has been calculated as set out in Note 23 to the accounts, and other creditors include the deferred element of
the purchase consideration which will be paid in September 2005. Cash balances include  1.2 million held as
security for the deferred payment.
Working capital at April 2005 was affected by some shipping delays on major contracts with Safetell which had
a significant impact on stock holding at the year end, although this was offset by advance payments from those
customers, which are included in accruals and deferred income. Trade debtors were also high at the year end
with large sales volumes in CMP in April.
With the shares issued in the year to finance the acquisition of CMP, shareholders funds increased from
 1.4 million to  3.3 million.
Net cash flow from operating activities increased from  0.3 million to  0.8 million. With the disposal of the
property in Belgium, net capital expenditure was minimal.
Employees
The Board wishes to thank all employees on their contribution during the year.
Summary
The results for the year have obviously been severely affected by the ongoing losses in NSP and Concept. These
activities have now been terminated and all remaining businesses are profitable, although the results for the
current year will include the trading losses for the three months to termination and the losses on termination
of the businesses.
The Company has made an encouraging start to the new financial year which will be mainly reflected in the
second half, experiencing a high level of interest in its products and services, particularly within Grosvenor
Technology, with a number of new contracts with major companies in advanced stages of discussion.
M DWEK
Chairman
14 September 2005
Newmark Security PLC
5