 Chairman's statement
 The year ahead promises 
to bring further solid 
progress towards our 
goal of bringing Red 
Rabbit into production. 
It gives me great pleasure to review our 
activities, at a time when we are proud to 
celebrate the first 10 years of operation for 
Ariana Resources. 
In that time, the Company has advanced 
from unassuming origins as an imaginative 
research concept to become a vibrant 
and successful exploration and mine 
development company, now on the threshold 
of becoming a profitable gold producer. It 
has been a privilege to have been Chairman 
since that key date in July 2005 when Ariana 
listed on the AIM market and successfully 
launched its IPO. 
During this period, there have been many 
important milestones, on a journey which has 
shaped our well-defined business strategy. 
We continue to pursue aggressively our  
three-pronged approach. The main thrust 
remains the Red Rabbit Gold Project in 
western Turkey , on which we made major 
progress during the year . After successful trial 
mining in 2009, Red Rabbit - comprising the 
Kiziltepe and Tav an sectors - is now being 
developed as a mine in Joint Venture (JV)  
with Proccea Construction Co. who will earn 
into a 50% stake by committing US$8m to  
the project. 
In 2011, the pre-feasibility study was 
completed, defining a phased project to bring 
into production initially the Kiziltepe sector , 
with an eight-year-plus mine life. This is 
planned as a 20,000 oz/year open-pit gold 
operation, scheduled to come into production 
during 2013, based on in-pit JORC resources 
of 118,200 oz gold and 1.5 Moz silver .
Kiziltepe accounts for just over half the total 
Red Rabbit JORC resource of 448,000 oz  
gold equivalent. Kiziltepe's core operation 
will be the Arzu South open-pit, with four 
additional satellite pits on adjacent gold-silver 
bearing veins. The processing route will be  
via a conventional CIL (carbon-in-leach) plant. 
As part of the planning process, we are well 
on the way towards completion of the EIA 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) and 
obtaining the necessary permits for mining 
Kiziltepe. In addition, by year-end we had 
purchased most of the requisite freehold land 
for our mining operations. 
Exploration continues at Kiziltepe, which 
shows strong potential for further discoveries. 
During the year we identified four new 
gold-bearing vein systems. These are being 
investigated as part of our 4,000-metre 
2011-12 drilling programme, using our own 
drill rig and dedicated drilling team. Similar 
in character , these veins all form part of 
the sub-parallel vein system at Kiziltepe. 
Significantly , continuity of mineralisation was 
finally established in the gap area between 
Arzu South and Arzu North with the discovery 
of the Emel vein. 
It is intended that mining the Tav an portion 
of Red Rabbit will follow on the completion 
of Kiziltepe. A preliminary assessment of 
Tav an, geologically very different in character , 
indicates it to be economically viable as a 
simple heap leach operation, with a potential 
output of 30,000 oz/year gold equivalent.
 
The second cornerstone of our business 
strategy is our programme of grassroots 
exploration, prospect definition and licence 
acquisition, whose bold objective is to locate 
areas with the potential to host multi-million 
ounce deposits. We are successfully using 
surface exploration techniques to identify 
a number of prospective targets over wide 
areas of western Turkey. The Company is 
actively seeking to secure the corresponding 
licences containing the best of these targets 
via the Turkish Government's auction process. 
Michael Spriggs
Chairman
Red Rabbit Gold Project area, western Turkey.
Our business
04
Annual Report & Accounts 2011   Ariana Resources PLC In parallel, we continue to expand our licence 
portfolio through acquisition. During 2011, 
we purchased from KEFI Minerals plc four 
licence areas some of which lie within the 
Red Rabbit area of interest. 
Finally , the third element of our strategy: 
the diversification of our portfolio through 
JVs and investments. Since 2008 we have 
been in JV with European Goldfields 
(subsequently acquired by Eldorado Gold), 
which is funding the exploration of the Ardala 
and Salinba  prospects in north-eastern 
Turkey. This project is yielding increasingly 
exciting results, and the 2012 drilling 
programme is designed to take this project 
to the resource estimation stage. 
Additionally , we have our strategic 13% 
investment in Tigris Resources which gives  
us access to their pioneering exploration work 
in south-eastern Turkey. Tigris' extensive 
airborne reconnaissance work during 2011 
in this highly prospective region led to the 
definition of a number of targets, which are 
currently the subject of licence applications.
Turkey is becoming an increasingly  
attractive destination for investment in 
mining. In the gold sector , there are now 
six operating mines and a further six in the 
pipeline. Having overhauled the mining law 
in 2010, the Turkish Government has further 
demonstrated its support for the mining 
industry by improving its mining legislation 
to provide a more favourable platform for 
exploration and mining companies. It has 
introduced tax incentives to encourage  
foreign investors, introduced a competitive 
royalty and corporation tax framework, and 
now waives VAT and customs duty on gold 
exploration. 
Globally , exploration expenditure on  
the precious metals sector continues  
to grow and now attracts the lion's share  
of the total. In 2010, according to the Metals 
Economics Group of Canada, gold for the  
first time accounted for over half of total  
world exploration spending of US$11.2 billion.  
With a strong correlation with the bullion 
price, this spending growth trend is likely  
to continue. 
For gold, it was another year of buoyant 
investment demand and strong overall  
price performance, with bullion reaching  
an all-time high of US$1,921/oz in London  
in September 2011. 
For 2012, the outlook is again broadly positive 
for gold in its role as a safe investment 
haven: real interest rates remain low or 
negative and the US Federal Reserve is 
committed to further monetary stimulation; 
inflationary concerns persist, particularly in 
the major South East Asian markets; and 
uncertainty over Eurozone debt is unlikely 
to abate. In addition, Central Banks have now 
become net buyers, reversing the trend of the 
previous decade. 
With such a positive backdrop, it might seem 
paradoxical that the AIM precious metals 
sector has underperformed bullion over the 
past year . Ariana's relative outperformance 
of the AIM All-Share index for most of the 
past 12 months masks the market difficulties 
faced by the junior mining sector during 2011. 
The sector , of course, was not immune to  
the general malaise affecting equity markets. 
The number of mining IPOs dwindled rapidly 
last year and the number of secondary 
placings was also well down on 2010. The 
decline in market liquidity continues to reflect 
the impact of the global economic downturn 
and the combination of looser monetary policy 
and tighter fiscal policy among the major 
economies. 
Despite these headwinds, during 2011 Ariana 
successfully completed a  1.16 million placing, 
the proceeds of which are being devoted to 
maintaining our exploration and development 
programmes in western Turkey. We also 
concluded a Standby Equity Distribution 
Agreement (SEDA) backed loan agreement  
for US$2m with US-based Yorkville Advisors 
LLC. The SEDA offers a flexible and cost- 
effective way of raising capital by selling  
new stock, offered at a discount, without 
making a formal Secondary Market Offering 
to the market. The timing of any sales is 
entirely under Ariana's control, so we may  
sell whenever the share price is appropriate -  
or not at all, if we so decide.
The year ahead promises to bring further 
solid progress towards our goal of bringing 
Red Rabbit into production. Proccea has 
already funded US$1.4m towards the first 
phase of the project (EIA, Feasibility Study 
and additional permitting) which is due 
to be completed in H2 2012. Proccea will 
then commit a further US$6.6m to the 
second phase of the project involving plant 
construction and mine commissioning, so 
that mining should commence during 2013. 
To take Red Rabbit through to production 
will require an additional US$22m. The JV 
partners are actively examining options for 
raising this amount through debt finance.
Through an invigorating but challenging 
year our loyal shareholders have remained 
steadfast, and we thank them all - large and 
small - for their continuing support. Ariana 
has many positive attributes, not least of 
which are the Company's deep knowledge  
and decade-long experience of operating  
in this stimulating and rewarding geological 
environment. We are fortunate to have such 
a strong operating and management team, 
both here in the UK and on the ground in 
Turkey. I thank them and my fellow board 
members for their tireless support. The 
importance of having in place experienced 
local management who understand the 
mechanics of operating in Turkey and who 
are able to connect with key Government 
agencies cannot be overstated.
We shall continue to pursue our three-point 
strategy vigorously. As outlined, much of our 
attention this year will be focused on bringing 
Red Rabbit into production, but we shall 
continue to extend our exploration and drilling 
programmes, and are actively examining 
further JV and investment possibilities that 
would complement our strategy.
 
I hope I have demonstrated how we strive  
to match our shareholders' commitment 
to our Company. After 10 years, we are now 
within sight of significant gold production, 
turning us into a very different type of AIM 
junior . 
Michael Spriggs
Chairman
23 May 2012
Our business
05
Annual Report & Accounts 2011   Ariana Resources PLC