 4 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2010 www.norcros.com
Overview
I am pleased to report that the Group has 
delivered a solid performance, ahead of 
market expectations and with significant 
progress in a number of areas. This result 
has been delivered despite the substantial 
downturn in demand in our major markets. 
The performance in our UK businesses was 
particularly encouraging and the initial benefits 
of the operational improvements implemented 
in our South African tile manufacturing and 
retail operations started to show through in 
the second half of the year. 
Following the successful capital raising in 
December 2009, which raised net proceeds 
of  27.7m, and the intense focus on cash, 
net debt was reduced by  29.9m to  15.9m 
(2009:  45.8m). 
Results
Revenue for the year increased by 10.0% to 
 169.6m (2009:  154.2m), benefiting from 
the relative strength of the South African Rand 
and Australian Dollar to Sterling exchange 
rates. At constant exchange rates revenue 
increased by 2.4%, reflecting growth across 
all of our UK businesses partly offset by 
declines in both our overseas operations.
Group trading profits of  7.3m (2009:  7.0m) 
were 4.3% higher than prior year. Trading profit 
in our UK operations grew by 30.3% to  11.6m, 
with our businesses outperforming their industry 
peers and growing market share on the back 
of successful product and marketing initiatives. 
Conversely, in South Africa the continuation of 
very weak economic conditions and significantly 
reduced building activity resulted in a trading 
loss of  3.7m, albeit our South African adhesive 
operation delivered a resilient performance 
and reported results in line with last year. 
Pre-tax profitability was impacted by 
exceptional charges of  8.2m (2009: charge 
of  7.7m),  2.5m of which related principally 
to the closure of underperforming retail stores 
in South Africa and a further  5.7m charge 
related to the impairment of the carrying value 
of the Group's Greek Associate together with 
associated costs. This reflects the continuing 
losses in this business, which was adversely 
impacted by the extreme difficulties in the 
local economy in Greece. 
Group loss before tax and exceptional items 
was  1.8m (2009: profit of  2.9m), with the 
higher trading profits more than offset by 
higher net finance costs, which increased 
from  3.9m to  5.3m. In addition there was 
a  3.4m increase in the IAS 19 pension 
interest charge reflecting a  1.1m expense 
this year compared with  2.3m income in 
the prior year. 
Basic losses per share before exceptional 
items were 0.6p (2009: earnings of 1.0p) 
and basic losses per share as reported 
were 3.4p (2009: losses of 4.2p).
Net cash generated from operations 
in the period was  10.6m (2009:  6.8m) 
reflecting a significant increase in the rate 
of cash conversion. Capital expenditure 
was  3.9m (2009:  4.7m) and included new 
product development at Triton, investment 
in ink jet technology in the UK tiles business, 
store upgrades and the purchase of the 
Randburg store in South Africa. Net debt 
at 31 March 2010 reduced to  15.9m from 
 45.8m at 31 March 2009 and leverage 
measured as net debt/EBITDA was 1.3 times. 
All banking covenants were met and since 
January 2010 we have enjoyed the lowest 
level of bank margin available within the 
facility agreement.
Chairman's statement
The proceeds of the capital raising 
significantly strengthened the Group's 
financial position, both reducing 
borrowings and overall interest cost.
Summary
   Revenue for the year increased 
by 10.0% to  169.6m
   Trading profit of  7.3m is 4.3% ahead 
of last year
   The Group completed a capital raising 
exercise raising gross proceeds of  30m
   Well positioned to take advantage 
of organic growth opportunities
   The Group now has significantly reduced 
borrowings and interest costs
John Brown Chairman 5 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2010 www.norcros.com
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts
The UK defined benefit pension scheme 
valuation calculated under IAS 19 reduced 
from a surplus of  1.3m at 31 March 2009 
to a deficit of  9.3m at 31 March 2010. 
The reduction principally reflects the fall 
in the applicable discount rate from 6.9% 
to 5.7% and a strengthening in mortality 
assumptions, partly offset by an increase 
in the scheme's asset values. 
Capital structure
As previously reported, the Group agreed 
to revised terms on its banking facilities 
in July 2009 which, as a consequence 
of the difficult borrowing market and tight 
liquidity environment, are more onerous 
than those under the previous facilities. 
On 4 December 2009, the Group completed 
a capital raising exercise which raised 
gross proceeds of approximately  30.0m 
(approximately  27.7m net of expenses) 
through the issue of 428,571,428 new 
ordinary shares via a firm placing and 
placing and open offer of new shares. 
The net proceeds were used to reduce 
the Group's debt, thereby significantly 
strengthening the Group's financial 
position, both reducing the Group's 
borrowings and overall interest cost. 
Dividend
The Board has determined not to propose 
a final dividend in respect of the year ended 
March 2010. This follows no interim dividend 
being declared.
It is, however, the Board's intention to return 
to a progressive dividend policy, within the 
restrictions placed on the Group by the terms 
of its bank facility agreement and subject to 
the Group's earnings, cash flow and balance 
sheet position.
Initiatives
South Africa
Operational improvements have been 
implemented in our South African tile 
manufacturing and retail businesses by the 
new management team. In tile manufacturing, 
the deployment of specialist tile manufacturing 
resource succeeded in stabilising the plant 
and more recently returning it to an efficient 
level of throughput and quality. We have also 
completed the closure of four underperforming 
stores in our retail business. Our second half 
results were more encouraging and, in spite 
of the continuing market difficulties, we are 
confident of re-establishing a solid base for 
future growth.
Australia
As recently announced the Group completed 
post year end the disposal of its 25.5% 
investment in R.J. Beaumont & Co (Pty) Limited 
for a consideration of c.  4.3m net of expenses, 
generating a profit on disposal of  2.6m 
which will be reported in the Group's financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2011. 
This disposal realises value from the Group's 
investment and the net proceeds will be 
used to further reduce debt and associated 
interest costs.
Board changes
In anticipation of his retirement from the Board 
in 2011, Joe Matthews, who has been Group 
Chief Executive since April 1996, will step down 
as Group Chief Executive on 31 March 2011 
and from the Board at the Annual General 
Meeting in July 2011. 
Nick Kelsall, currently Group Finance Director, 
is appointed Group Chief Executive-designate 
with effect from 1 July 2010 and will succeed 
Joe as Group Chief Executive with effect from 
1 April 2011.
The Board undertook a thorough process 
of evaluating both internal and external 
candidates, and the Board congratulates 
Nick on this appointment.
The Board will now undertake a search for 
a new Group Finance Director and a further 
announcement will be made in due course.
I am delighted to welcome Mr Vijay Aggarwal, 
who joined the Board as a Non-executive 
Director on 8 October 2009. Mr Aggarwal is the 
Managing Director of Prism Cement Limited 
(formerly H & R Johnson (India) Limited, a 
company in India in which the Group previously 
had a direct interest, which has recently merged 
with Prism Cement Limited). Prism Cement 
Limited is the parent of Lifestyle Investments 
PVT Limited, a major shareholder of Norcros plc. 
The Group has recently announced Mr Girija 
Sankar Patnaik as an alternate Non-executive 
Director to Mr Aggarwal. Mr Patnaik is a 
member of the senior management team 
of Prism Cement Limited. 
Employees
I would like to extend the Board's thanks and 
gratitude to everyone in the Group for their 
continuing hard work and dedication during 
an exceptionally challenging year. 
Summary and outlook
Looking ahead, the UK outlook for consumer 
spending in the current year remains uncertain. 
Public sector investment is expected to decline, 
whilst private sector investment is forecast to 
remain muted. In South Africa, the economy 
is projected to show a slow recovery. Despite 
these challenging conditions, the Group is 
in good shape with a strong balance sheet, 
following the recent capital raising, and resilient 
revenue driven by essential repair and 
maintenance activity and continued focus 
and investment in new product development. 
Last year's major operational improvements 
in our South African operations should also 
yield benefits in the current year. 
An encouraging start has been made to 
the current financial year. With the strength 
of our leading market positions, we believe 
the Group is well positioned to take advantage 
of any organic growth opportunities in its key 
markets as well as any market recovery when 
it occurs and we look forward to making 
further progress in 2010/11. 
J. E. Brown
Chairman
22 June 2010
One of Triton's stylish thermostatic 
mixer showers.