 Chairman's Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Introduction
2010 has been a transformational year for Norman Broadbent plc (Norman Broadbent  or the Company ), which has
seen the successful operational integration of the executive search businesses of Norman Broadbent and Garner
International (Garner ) under the Norman Broadbent brand, a brand which has 30 years of positive, high profile, board
level recognition. The integration of the business has been facilitated and reinforced by the Company's move to a single
office in St James's Square, in central London.
In May 2010, the Company was refinanced through the issue of new ordinary shares raising  2.04 million, and a
negotiated reduction of  3.5 million in the amount due to the vendors of Norman Broadbent. The year has seen the
Company return to profitability with a profit after tax of  1.07 million and an operating profit of  0.23 million, compared
to a loss after tax of  3.45 million and an operating loss of  3.2 million in 2009. The operating profit is struck after taking
into account the impact of a variety of one-off integration costs.
At present, the Company is predominantly an executive search business with emerging revenue streams in board
assessment, evaluation and coaching and board level interim services. In addition, the Company has a number of
overseas licence agreements, in Spain, the Middle East, Italy and Canada, which extend the Norman Broadbent reach,
creating mutually beneficial search opportunities and a seamless service to an increasing number of global accounts.
The international reputation of Norman Broadbent is well regarded, with Krista Walochik, CEO of Norman Broadbent
Spain, a board member of the Association of Executive Search Consultants (AESC ), the global gold standard body
in our industry. 
With the successful completion of the rebranding, the property move and integration of the search businesses, the
Company and its management are now focussed on delivering a strategic growth programme. This will be facilitated
by the announcement today of a placing to raise  1.75 million.
Results for the financial year
The Company returned to profitability in 2010; the table below summarises the results:
2010 2009
Revenue  000  000
Executive Search 5,718 5,249
HADIL 48 -
Interim 19 507
Overseas royalties 326 277
6,111 6,033
Operating profit/(loss) 229 (3,197)
Finance cost (53) (24)
Gain/(prov.) on disposal 837 (226)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,013 (3,447)
Tax credit/(charge) 58 (9)
Profit/(loss) after tax 1,071 (3,456)
EPS - basic 20.00p (146.17p)
EPS - adjusted 5.69p (56.57p)
Executive search revenue increased by 9% compared with 2009, notwithstanding the fact that the number of search
consultants decreased from 29 in 2009 to 20 in 2010, due to a material increase in revenue per consultant. Moreover,
the average fee per assignment increased, and this trend has continued in 2011.
A decline in interim services revenue reflects the decision made in 2009 to cut the Company's exposure to its interim
contracting business, which was felt by the board to be excessively cash and capital intensive and a risk in an uncertain
market. A revised formula was recently devised whereby the interim contracting services are now supported by
operating in partnership with third parties who provide the contracting aspects of the service. 
Norman Broadbent plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
3 Chairman's Statement
continued
In December 2010, the Company acquired Human Asset Development International Limited (HADIL ), an experienced
board assessment, coaching and development business with a blue chip client base. HADIL's business is an attractive
and complementary addition to our portfolio as it is scalable and does not create conflicts of interest with the executive
search business. The recent recognition that public and large private companies have an ongoing need to review board
structures and maintain robust board assessment and appraisal processes leaves HADIL well placed, as a separately
branded entity, to grow its business.
During 2010, the Company incurred a number of non-recurring costs relating to relocation, rebranding and
restructuring, together with professional costs associated with the share issue, company general meetings, the
renegotiation of the deferred consideration and the reorganisation of the group, including the liquidation of a subsidiary,
BNB Recruitment Consultancy Limited (BNBRC ). The board believes that, in view of these costs, the operating profit
of  0.23 million was a creditable performance. 
The Company reported basic earnings per share of 20.00 pence in 2010 (2009: loss per share of 146.17 pence).
Adjusting for the one-off gain on the liquidation of BNBRC and adding back share based payment and impairment
charges, the adjusted earnings per share was 5.69 pence (2009: loss per share of 56.57 pence).
Now that the integration of the businesses has been largely completed we will continue to review our business
processes for more operational efficiency. In addition some structural, legacy cost items will be dealt with in 2011
generating further savings, albeit with some associated initial costs.
Financial position
The financial position of the Company improved substantially over the course of 2010 as a result of the share issue of
 2.04 million, the reduction in deferred consideration of  3.5 million, the  0.8 million credit associated with the
liquidation of BNBRC, and the operating profit recorded for the year. Net assets amounted to  1.0 million as at 
31 December 2010, compared to a deficiency of  2.4 million, with net bank debt at  0.7 million. 
Board changes and senior management
Andrew Garner, the founder of Garner, who was instrumental in bringing the two companies together, announced his
intention to retire earlier this month and he will step down from the board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
(AGM ). The Board is very grateful to Andrew for his immense contribution since 1997. His foresight in driving the
Norman Broadbent acquisition and building a strong robust team to carry on his legacy is a testament to his leadership.
John Bartle CBE has indicated that he also intends to step down at the AGM to pursue his other business and personal
interests. John has provided an enormous contribution in his 11 year tenure and the Board wishes him well in the future. 
I became executive chairman on 5 April 2011. Our principal activity, executive search, is managed under the direction of
Sue O'Brien, supported by Ben Felton and Jan Cameron as chief financial officer and group services director, respectively.
I am pleased to note that we have appointed a number of significant leaders to the search business. David Chancellor,
previously head of the board practice at Robert Walters, is heading up a new CFO board practice and Adam Turner,
previously a partner at Odgers Berndtson, is leading the Private Equity and Professional Services area. Along with Sue,
the UK executive search senior management team consists of Adam, David and Jerry Daniels, who has led the growth
of the technology, media and telecoms area, and we anticipate announcing the recruitment of further senior consultants
to augment the board practice in the coming months. 
Strategy
The Company is committed to:
l Organically building the core UK search business. The target is to double the current annual search revenues to
 11.5 million by 2014 which, on the newly integrated cost base, should generate significant profits for the Company.
l Growing the board assessment and development offering through investment in HADIL, continue developing the
senior Interim business and identifying appropriate add on human capital investment opportunities. 
l Growing the number of members in our international licensed business while working closely with our existing
licensees to build on cross sell opportunities.
l Selectively opening a small number of international offices, concentrating on Europe and Asia. 
Norman Broadbent plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
4 Chairman's Statement
continued
Proposed share issue
To facilitate the implementation of our growth strategy, the Board has decided to raise  1.75 million through the
proposed placing of 2.69 million new ordinary shares at a price of 65 pence, subject to shareholder approval at the
AGM. The funds raised from the issue of these shares, combined with a conservative increase in our banking facilities
which we anticipate that the placing will release, will provide the capital to implement our strategy.
We are pleased that the placing will strengthen our share register with the introduction of new high quality institutional
investors.
We propose to utilise the existing share option scheme to incentivise our current talented executives and employees
and key individuals who join the team in the future.
Current trading and outlook
Trading in the first quarter has been both profitable and satisfactory. Notwithstanding the time lag in revenue generation
through the active recruitment of new senior executives, the outlook for 2011 as a whole remains positive.
Longer term, we are committed to creating a top tier executive search business across a variety of territories, in tandem
with a broader suite of human capital services, including executive assessment, evaluation, coaching and an enhanced
board level interim service.
Since rebranding last year we are mindful that the Norman Broadbent brand has broad recognition, not just in London
but in Europe and the Far East. We wish to maximise shareholder return through attracting and retaining the best talent
to capitalise on our own marque in what is an attractive, high margin business once scale is achieved.
Pierce Casey
Executive Chairman
28 April 2011
Norman Broadbent plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
5