 21343-04    20/04/2012   Proof 5
3
North Midland Construction PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Building on ExpEriEncE
Chairman's Statement 
As highlighted in our trading update on 23 February 2012, serious 
problems experienced within the building subsidiary has caused a 
Group loss of  0.78 million (2010:  3.71 million profit) before tax 
on revenue increased by 1.6% to  167.2 million. Due to the poor 
performance of the building subsidiary, the Board has reviewed 
the value of goodwill which had a carrying value of  1.26 million, 
and has determined to provide in full against this amount. This is 
a one-off non cash accounting adjustment, which cancels out the 
exceptional profit of  1.25 million as a result of the reduction in 
the OFT fine and reimbursement of a proportion of the legal costs 
of the defence. 
In spite of the difficult economic climate, progress was made in 
other sections of the Group divisions and a breakdown is 
provided below. 
Civil Engineering 
Outside of the secured water industry frameworks, the prevailing 
economic climate led to reduced tendering opportunities and high 
sales costs, which rendered a poor return, due to either the 
cancellation or deferment of a number of projects. Hence, 
revenue declined by 31% to  35.3 million and operating profits 
by 16.7% to  1.63 million. The results incorporate those of the 
sub division NMCNomenca, which delivered an enhanced 
performance over the previous year. NMCNomenca is also an 
equal partner, with the three other framework contractors, in the 
E5 consortium formed to undertake a  200 million major projects 
programme for Severn Trent Water. This is in addition to the 
existing framework. This company has recently commenced work 
on the reconstruction of Stoke Bardolph WTW. Progress has 
been made in the expansion of NMCNomenca outside of Severn 
Trent Water and it is the intention to use NMCNomenca as the 
foundation for a national water business, as confidence is high 
that the business model and core capability is particularly 
attractive to the water industry. The division is also heavily 
engaged in the power, waste and rail sectors, but margins remain 
extremely competitive. 
In response to the difficult conditions currently being experienced 
and the problems within the building subsidiary, a restructuring 
has been instigated both to improve performance and reduce 
cost. The building subsidiary and the civil engineering division 
have been incorporated into one entity, namely the Building and 
Civil Engineering  division, under the managing directorship of 
Mark Blakeway, an existing Main Board Director. NMCNomenca 
has become a stand alone division. Both of these initiatives were 
effective from 1 January 2012. The building subsidiary and civil 
engineering division, outside of the water industry, were 
complementary in many ways and confidence is high that these 
management and structural changes will deliver improved 
performance. As a testament to this, the division has recently 
been successful in securing a  6.3 million contract for Pedigree 
Petfoods, part of the Mars Group, in Melton Mowbray. 
Highways 
The division has delivered an exceptional performance, with 
revenue increasing by 39.6% to  18.8 million and operating 
profits by 285% to  0.83 million, in spite of major cutbacks within 
the public sector. Consolidation of the previous geographical 
expansion has taken place, most notably in the North West, and a 
particular expertise in public realm contracts has been 
established, with the latest secured scheme being a  2.2 million 
contract in Bridgend. Further success has been achieved in 
expanding the portfolio of frameworks, which now currently 
stands at seven. 
Utilities 
During the year the scale of the South Yorkshire Digital contract 
was reduced and this combined with the loss of the Virgin Media 
term contract mid-year reduced revenue by 20.0% to  32.2 
million. Revenue primarily emanates from several fixed price term 
contracts for clients such as British Telecom, Cable &Wireless, 
Geo and K.Com. Price erosion, as some of these contracts reach 
the end of their duration, coupled with large increases in the price 
of fuel, has resulted in operating profits declining by 59% to  0.6 
million. Work in progress, also, remains at a high level, due to 
payment terms being linked to a series of large milestones on 
particular contracts. 
The replacement of the Virgin Media contract was of paramount 
importance in the short term and the division has been successful 
in obtaining new clients such as Energetics and Electricity North 
West. Term contracts for both BT and K.Com have been renewed 
in the last month. 
Chairman's Statement 21343-04    20/04/2012   Proof 5
4
North Midland Construction PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
evol ving environments
Building 
The building subsidiary has had a very difficult year, delivering an 
escalated loss on the previous year of  4.8 million, on revenues 
that were down by 24.2% to  16.7 million. Losses have primarily 
emanated from major delays and cost overruns on the most 
significant project being undertaken and major reverses on two 
other completed projects. A further review of the major project 
has revealed that the completion date has further extended into 
the second half of 2012, with subsequent increased anticipated 
cost overruns of  1.5 million, which have been provided for in the 
2011 results. A significant claim for the losses incurred on this 
contract is currently being pursued. 
Of all the sectors within the construction industry, building has 
been the most heavily affected by the current economic climate. 
Credit conditions are very tight and developers, for whom the 
subsidiary has a proven track record, are finding it extremely 
difficult to generate new projects. The market remains extremely 
competitive and the supply chain is finding survival extremely 
difficult, which has had a material effect on this company's 
business, particularly where the supply chain is either nominated 
or a specialist. Insufficient workload was secured during the year 
to contribute to full overhead recovery and this necessitated 
management change and cost reduction. As outlined above, the 
building subsidiary has been merged into the civil engineering 
division under a new management structure and with a reduction 
in overhead. This restructuring will enable the new division to 
operate effectively and profitably in what remains an extremely 
difficult market. 
Nomenca 
The mechanical and electrical subsidiary has been the beneficiary 
of increased expenditure by the water companies as the AMP5 
programme is well underway. Revenue increased by 70.7% to a 
record  64.2 million, with profitability climbing 36.8% to  1.03 
million. The company has secured seventeen water company 
frameworks throughout the country and services these, alongside 
other clients, through its network of regional offices established 
throughout the country. The expansion of the chemical dosing 
capability, with manufacturing undertaken in Warrington, has 
continued. Nomenca has now secured five frameworks for the 
manufacture and installation of chemical dosing rigs with different 
water companies. 
Confidence is high that both Nomenca and NMCNomenca will be 
beneficiaries of the increased expenditure under AMP5. 
Non Financial Performance 
In an increasingly competitive environment, it is essential that 
non-financial performance attains the highest level, as it is 
evaluated by potential clients in pre-qualification submissions. It 
is, therefore, very gratifying to report that the Group was the 
recipient of a British Safety Council 4 star award during the year 
and that all divisions and subsidiaries achieved the ROSPA gold 
standard. In total 9 No. health and safety awards and 3 No. 
environmental awards were received during the year. The overall 
accident rate continues to be considerably below the national 
average. Total CO
2
 emissions reduced by 10.3% to 1,013 tonnes 
on a revenue increased by 1.6%. Several CSR projects in the 
community were also undertaken during the year and details of 
these, along with other CSR data, are contained in this year's 
report. Construction remains a people business and the 
development and retention of a skilled and motivated workforce is 
essential. We have, therefore, maintained our training expenditure 
and the graduate and apprenticeship programmes. 2,148 training 
days were undertaken during the year equating to an average of 
2.19 days per employee. 
Financing 
The Group's credit facilities remain adequate for the foreseeable 
future and there was a small cash improvement during the year. 
Cash at the year end stands at  9.23 million, an improvement  
of 3.6%.
Outlook 
The secured order book for the current financial year is circa 
 125 million. The Board is confident that the restructuring and 
cost reduction measures that have been implemented will 
contribute to a return to growth. However, due to the poor 
results in the building subsidiary, the Board feels that it is 
necessary to recommend a reduction in the final dividend to 
3.0 pence per share, making a total of 5.5 pence for the year.
Robert Moyle
Chairman
29 March 2012
 
Chairman's Statement
(continued)