 Chairman's Statement
Northern Petroleum Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 2
The successful appraisal drilling in
2001 of the Seven Heads Gas
Field was followed in 2002 by the
development of economically attractive
plans for putting the field into
production. In July 2002 we sold our
interest in both the Seven Heads and
Galley Head gas fields for  2 million
in cash and 294,118 ordinary shares
of Ramco Energy plc. Your Board took
this action as we accepted the
paramount importance of having
the major part of our investments
under our own management control.
The sale also released funds which
could be redeployed to add value in
the short term rather than be
locked into a project to which little
significant value could be added by
us until first production scheduled
for late 2003. The Seven Heads
gas field is forecast to supply some
10% of Irish requirements. It remains
a good project and it was particularly
pleasing to read that the first
development well tested 34.3
mmscfd, a result substantially better
than expected. We are maintaining
through our holding of Ramco
Energy plc shares virtually the same
exposure as originally invested in
this project and are confident that we
will benefit as the market becomes
aware of the positive achievements of
the project.
Gary Moore joined the Board during
the year as a result of this transaction
and resigned in May 2003 to pursue
other interests. We hope these will prove
as successful for him as Seven Heads
and thank him for his considerable
contribution to the Company.
In May 2002 we purchased from
Repsol/YPF a 45% interest in the La Lora
licence in Northern Spain which
includes the Ayoluengo oil field. We
also arranged with the remaining
partners to be appointed as Operator
to manage the field. It is pleasing to
report that, with the improved oil
prices and the uncontrolled delays
in receiving approvals from the
authorities in Madrid, by the time
the transaction became unconditional
on December 12th 2002, sufficient
net revenues had already accrued
since July 1st, to cover more than the
purchase price of $112,500. Whilst
I would wish to show an operating
profit for the Ayoluengo field of
 68,691 for the period 1st July to
31st December 2002 I am advised
that this would not conform with
Financial Reporting Standards 5 and 7.
As a consequence, and you are referred
to the Finance Report, the benefits
prior to December 12th are shown as
negative goodwill, a result of acquiring
assets for less than they are now worth.
It is our initial intention to increase
profits from Ayoluengo by a programme
of cost reduction, down-hole clean
up, restoration and further lateral
drilling into as yet un-drained areas
of the reservoir. The first phase has
already begun with initially encouraging
results. In the longer term we are
working to confirm drilling targets
below and on the flanks of the current
area in production. I am reminded of
the adage that the best place to find
oil is in the shadow of an oil field. 
On another nearby licence we are
developing plans to drill the
Hontomin-4 appraisal well combined
with a deeper test to benefit from
the drilling and testing in 1991-1992
of Hontomin-2 which tested up to
200 bopd of oil, but with water. This
is viewed as a sufficiently low-risk
project to meet our business strategy
criteria. Unlike the previous licensee
we will now have the added benefit of
being able to test and produce using
the oil handling and water disposal
facilities at Ayoluengo only 20km away.
Another well being planned is
Huidobro-3 to attempt to produce oil
from the Cretaceous formation from
which Chevron tested oil in 1963. It is
also intended that the structure will be
tested at the deeper Middle Jurassic
I report a profit of 0.15p per share reflecting, after write offs, the profitable sale
of our Irish investments and the commencement of profitable operations in Spain.
I also report the establishment of almost four million barrels, verified by
independent consultants, of probable recoverable oil reserves on the Isle of Wight. 
This has been a year of significant progress. We achieved the profitable sale of our
Irish investments and a six-month payback on our investment in the Ayoluengo oil
field. We have doubled to a 40% interest our position in licence PEDL 113, on the
Isle of Wight, where we have now established 3.9 million barrels of recoverable
probable oil reserves net to the Company. It is, in my view, of great importance
that Northern has now achieved operational control over all its investments.
This progress coupled with a strong cash position affords me a great deal
of confidence in Northern Petroleum going forward. horizon in which reportedly oil was
logged at greater depths in the nearby
Lora-1 well.
As a result of these activities it is clear
that Spain is a core area for the
Company. A major position has been
acquired in the oil-prone Sedano Basin.
These licences have become all the
more attractive as our technical staff
examine the deeper prospects in the
basin which have in addition to oil
potential a very large potential for gas
sourced from the local coal measures
which outcrop and were mined to
the northwest.
Early in 2002 we assumed the
management control of our key South
of England licences and have now
increased our interest in them from
20% to 40%. In 2002 we acquired an
additional 15% interest from Black
Rock Plc by an inexpensive farm-in,
bringing our interest up to 35%
in each of PEDL 098, 099 and 113.
In early 2003 we acquired from
Italmin Petroli S.r.l. a further 5% in the
same three licences simultaneous with
surrender of our 10% interest in the
Fiume Arrone licence. Following
detailed technical work our team has
upgraded its evaluation of Sandhills-1
to a substantial logged oil discovery
independently evaluated at 9.8 million
barrels of probable  oil reserves using
a 20% estimated recovery factor,
3.9 million barrels net to Northern,
increasing to 6.2 million barrels if
the possible  reserves are included.
Approaches are in progress to gain
planning consents to re-drill and test
Sandhills later this year. This one
project is capable of transforming the
perceived value of your company. 
The detailed petrophysical work has
given rise to the identification of a
number of other targets for new licence
applications which must remain
undisclosed for commercial reasons.
During 2002 we announced that
we had entered into arbitration
proceedings under English Law with a
Lukoil subsidiary, Open Joint Stock
Company Arkhangelskgeoldobycha
(AGD ) and with the seat of
arbitration subsequently transferred to
London. On February 14th 2003 we
submitted our full case for damages
and awaited responses. Replies have
been received from the lawyers acting
for AGD. Despite requests AGD has
repeatedly failed to respond directly to
Northern's reasonable attempts to
resolve issues through commercial
discussions, thereby saving legal
costs. We have found their stance to
be obstructive.
It has been reported to us that the
Tedin field produced approximately
1.25 million barrels during 2002 and
we continue to regard ourselves as
to be entitled under contract to a
10.34% share of the net profits from
the sale of that oil.
Having taken advice on financial
reporting standards, all the investment
costs associated with the Russian
venture have now been provided for,
save for a nominal one pound. I wish
to emphasise that this in no way
reflects the potential value of the
investment. Whilst we do not expect
the unsatisfactory standards of
behaviour we have encountered to
change to those expected from a
Western partner, we will continue to
attempt to realise the proper value
through the arbitration proceedings. 
Progress in Italy has been made with
the award of two licences. One is the
highly productive Po Valley region and
the other is offshore, to the south of
Sicily. Five further applications are
outstanding of which only one is the
subject of competition. Italy remains a
region of great interest, but for the
time being we must accept the slow
pace of licensing and concentrate our
efforts elsewhere.
Inevitably, some of the projects we
have undertaken have not worked
out for us. I have to report, sadly Peru
was one of these where deal terms
deteriorated at the last moment. I take
it as one of your Company's many
strengths that we maintain tough deal
criteria and are prepared to walk away
when our standards cannot be met.
As a result of our efforts last year,
particularly by our technical team,
we are now in a position to pursue our
Spanish and South of England projects
in the coming year. We are well
funded. We expect to drill two or
three appraisal wells in the Isle of
Wight and Spain and begin a
programme for the increase of oil
production from the Ayoluengo field. I
look forward to reporting on the
progress of these activities during the
coming year.
Richard Latham
Chairman
Northern Petroleum Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 3