 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 2
Results
Notwithstanding the public sector sales volumes and non-core
expenditure shortfalls, we managed to hold revenue at
 193.5m (2010:  207.6m), and underlying profit before tax
was  8.4m (2010:  11.2m).
Administrative expenses excluding non-recurring costs,
amortisation of intangibles and share option expense were
Whilst this has been a year of unprecedented new business wins, revenue and profitability fell
back in 2011 driven entirely by the shortfall in public sector sales volumes and non-core
expenditure relative to prior years. By contrast, private sector trading performance was broadly
in line with our expectations. 
Business wins and retention rates have been high during the year. Notably, two new Managed
Procurement contracts secured in 2011 are expected to generate additional annual revenue in
excess of  50m in 2012 and compensate for continuing, albeit now stable, lower levels of
public sector sales volumes.
The first is a four year contract to supply and distribute office products to the SME sector
through an independent office product dealership network (the Advantia contract). This is
expected to generate revenues in excess of  25m per annum for our new supply chain business,
Truline, which was launched during the year.
Secondly in August, following a competitive tender process for the Government Office Supplies
Contract (GOSC), we were appointed as sole provider of office products and Closed Loop
services to the UK Central Government for a minimum of three years with the option to extend.
GOSC embraces all Central Government departments and, as well as securing all our existing
public sector office product and Closed Loop business, it is expected to generate at least  25m
of additional annual revenue. Further, GOSC is based on our open-book pricing model which
should protect the Group from any adverse product cost increases. 
Having overcome the unexpected implementation delays which limited its impact in 2011,
GOSC has been trading in line with expectations so far in 2012 and other public sector sales
volumes now appear to be stable.
 27.3m (2010:  27.3m) and distribution costs reduced to
 18.4m (2010:  19.3m). Non-recurring costs, as detailed in
note 5 to the financial statements, were  2.4m (2010:
 5.3m) comprising compensation costs following
restructuring of  1.3m (2010:  1.8m), Truline start up costs
of  0.7m (2010:  nil) and  0.7m (2010:  3.3m) of business
and strategic review costs, offset by a curtailment gain on
closure of the defined benefit pension scheme of  0.3m
Chairman's Statement  
David Callear o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 3
(2010:  nil). In addition, in 2010, there were transaction
costs of  0.2m, relating to the investment in TPF . 
Profit before tax was  4.3m (2010:  4.6m) and following a
tax charge credit, profit after tax remained at  4.3m (2010:
 4.3m). Basic and fully diluted earnings per share were 12.0p
and 12.0p respectively (2010: 12.0p and 12.0p). Underlying
earnings per share were 20.7p (2010: 25.1p).
Cash generated from operations and net debt
Cash generated from operations increased by  5.9m to
 10.9m (2010:  5.0m). This reflected the unusual investment
in working capital and integration costs reported in 2010
following the acquisition of TPF and, subsequently, the impact
of the improved management of TPF working capital as part
of the enlarged Group. Net indebtedness fell to  27.7m
(2010:  31.4m) primarily as a direct consequence of this
improvement.
During the year, the Group's banking facilities were
renegotiated, increased and the term extended. The revised
facilities of  48m now mature in June 2015 with repayments
due from June 2012 and are based on competitive terms,
interest rates and arrangement fees. 
Business strategy
Over the past year, we have continued with our long term
strategy to build on the base of the traditional contracted
revenue office products business to:
  develop higher added-value managed procurement
activities; 
  expand our product range to encompass a breadth of
consumable products for business; 
  extend into market areas which sit naturally alongside the
traditional business, where there are opportunities to
grow and utilise our core skills in procurement and
logistics; and 
  benefit from a wider customer base. 
As a result of this broad diversification strategy our
operations now comprise:
Managed Procurement
  Banner Business Services, our traditional contracted
office products business which now supplies a broader
range of consumable products; and
  Truline, a business started-up in the year to provide supply
chain services (mainly product procurement and logistics)
to third parties such as Advantia as well as to Group
operations.
Business Critical Services
  Banner Managed Communication (BMC) which is an
outsourced business process provider, specialising in print
management and related services, with good growth
prospects through a diverse and predominantly private
sector customer base; and
  BDS, a waste paper service provider, which is expanding
the  Closed Loop' initiative, our patented environmentally-
friendly paper recycling process. This appeals to the
sustainability goals of both public and private sectors and
was a key factor in the award of GOSC.
BMC and BDS operate within our Business Critical Services
business segment and each is important to our strategy for
complementary market area extension given their
particular product focus. Similarly, Truline which operates
within the Managed Procurement business segment,
provides a platform both to develop our managed
procurement activities and widen the customer base into
the SME sector.
The shift in our trading emphasis over the last four years to
business product and managed services provider has been
accompanied by a shift in the office2office customer base
which originally comprised mainly Government departments.
At the end of 2011, two thirds of Group revenue was
accounted for by private sector corporate customers, a
balance largely maintained following the award of GOSC and
the Advantia contract.
Finally, we have improved the long-term business efficiency
by further reducing our underlying cost base year on year in
response to continued changes in economic conditions. This o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 4
has helped to protect the business from product margin
pressure, particularly in our traditional product ranges.
The 2011 trading performance of the business segments and
our shorter term strategy for the coming year are discussed
in more detail in the Chief Executive's Review.  
Dividend
The Board believes that the payment of dividends should be
closely linked to affordability and the Group's trading
prospects. 
We remain sufficiently confident in the long term prospects
of the Group, underpinned by the award of the two major
contracts during the year, to recommend maintaining the level
of the final dividend at 7.8p per share (2010: 7.8p). When
combined with the interim dividend paid on 21 October 2011,
this makes a total dividend per share of 11.4p (2010: 11.4p)
and amounts to a total distribution of  4.1m (2010:  4.1m).
The total dividend paid and payable for the year is covered by
earnings 1.1 times (2010: 1.1 times) and by underlying
earnings 2.0 times (2010: 2.7 times).
If approved at the annual general meeting (AGM), the final
dividend will be paid on 18 May 2012 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 20 April 2012.
Employees
Our employees have remained focused on delivering a quality
service despite the background of falling sales volumes and
tougher market conditions generally and huge efforts were
expended to secure and implement both GOSC and the
Advantia contract during the year.
I would like to thank all our staff for their continued hard work
and commitment to the Group.
Outlook
The shortfall in public sector sales volumes compounded by
the unfavourable product mix was disappointing albeit,
perhaps, inevitable as the Government sought to reduce
spending. Further, the unexpected delays to the
implementation of GOSC limited its compensatory impact in
the year. However, public sector sales volumes now appear to
have stabilised and the additional sales volumes promised by
GOSC and the Advantia contract position the Group for
growth in 2012. 
Whilst we expect the economic environment to remain
challenging, we believe this will be mitigated by extracting
value from our mainly contracted customer base, maintaining
margins and tightly controlling costs while, at the same time,
focusing on cash generation.
We start the current year with overall trading in line with
expectations; GOSC and the Advantia contract fully
operational; significant interest in our Closed Loop initiative;
and our Business Critical Services activity having already
secured those of its major contracts due for renewal in 2012.
T ogether, these underpin the Board's confidence in the
Group's prospects.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the Company's head office, St
Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich on 26 April 2012 at 11.00
a.m. Notice of the AGM together with the proxy forms for use
at the AGM, will be circulated with the annual report and
financial statements. 
D J Callear 
Chairman
29 February 2012
Chairman's Statement  
(continued)