 6
Chairman ' s Statement
For the 9 months ended 31 December 2002
As a result of the acquisition of certain of the businesses and assets of Chin Dynasty Fund
(CDF ), Arko Energy Holdings plc (the Company ) decided on 1 July 2002 to alter its year-end
date to 31 December from 31 March so as to be coterminous with that of its newly acquired
subsidiaries. I am pleased to take this opportunity to review the business development of the
Company together with its subsidiaries (collectively the Group ) in the financial period 2002 and
to present a preview on future developments.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
This financial period has seen the emergence of the benefit resulting from the reverse take-over in
May 2002 and the hard work of the management in 2002. The audited consolidated profit
attributable to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2002 was  2,594,107, representing a
successful recovery from losses of  161,874 in the year ended 31 March 2002. Basic and diluted
earnings per share were 0.1536 pence and 0.1532 pence respectively. Most encouraging of all, the
reverse take-over has created a healthy balance sheet with a low gearing ratio and a steady income
platform. At 31 December 2002, the consolidated total assets and shareholders' funds of the
Group were  56,597,839 and  38,827,535 respectively, representing substantial increases in
comparison to the previous year. This reflected the success of the Group's new strategy in power
plant operation, logistics services and international trading.
The positive financial results have apparently brought an immediate effect on the trading of the
Company's shares. The number of transactions and share price have maintained a steady rise ever
since the announcement of the interim results for the six months 30 September 2002. As at 31
December 2002, the market capitalization of the Company was  129.2 million.
DIVIDENDS
The directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend for the 9 months ended 31 December
2002.
BUSINESS REVIEW
With the support of the controlling shareholder, Chin Dynasty Fund, the Group focused on
rationalizing and restructuring its businesses in 2002. In addition to the revenue generated from
the operation of a power plant in Hubei Province, central China, and a container terminal in
Guangzhou Province, southern China, the trading arm, Arko International Trading Limited and
the shipping logistics company, Arko Logistics Limited, are the two major profit generators of the
Group.
Since CDF became the controlling shareholder of the Company in May 2002, the Group has
realigned the management and introduced new members to the management team and also initiated
a number of projects, including a new management structure, reorganization of assets and refinement
of direction for business development. As I mentioned in the interim report for the period ended
30 September 2002, the process for undertaking the two major investment projects, the granite
stone quarry in Fujian Province and the coal mine in Ningxia Province, are still under way. The
Group will assess the investment progress from time to time depending on the cash resources of
the Group as well as the climate of the capital markets for funding development projects. The
management believes the Group can provide sufficient working capital for implementing the projects
provided that income attributable from the existing businesses can be sustained. 7
Chairman ' s Statement
For the 9 months ended 31 December 2002
The Power Plant in Hubei Province
The operation of the power plant in Hubei Province produced a satisfactory operating profit of
 825,435 from sales of electricity and steam to the national grid. The record result reflects a stable
income from the power plant. To formulate development strategies, the management of the power
plant will enhance the quality of the technical team and is to conduct annual machinery
examinations. It is anticipated that the construction of a pipeline network for regular steam supply
and the upgrading of the local power transmission system will be completed on schedule.
The Container Terminal in Guangdong Province
Owing to fierce competition, the overall turnover for the period of Keen Chance Terminal (GZ)
Company Limited (KCT ) has fallen compared to the previous year. The strike that hit the West
Coast of the United States was an added reason for the set back in the marine industry in 2002. To
cope with the current difficulties, the management of KCT will focus on streamlining resources,
reducing in particular the overall operating cost, and expediting the expansion of logistics warehouses
in the coming year. As a result of the favorable geographical location of the terminal and the rapid
economic development of the Pearl River Delta region, it is anticipated that the throughput of the
terminal will experience steady growth again in the year ahead.
Shipping Logistics and Trading Business
Based on the results of the period, the shipping logistics business was one of the important sources
of income for the Group, contributing 10.35% of the total turnover of the Group. As with the
logistics business, the trading has generated a satisfactory operating profit of  3,744,561 this
period, before goodwill amortisation. The results were powered by a rise in ship brokerage service
and the resumption of international trading activity by Arko International Trading Limited. It is
envisaged that Hong Kong will continue to be a key platform in China from which the Group's
global operations can be expanded. The Group will exploit opportunities arising from China's
accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO ).
Mining exploitation rights in Fujian Province
Fujian Sanko Mining Limited, a 70% owned subsidiary, has been granted the right to carry out
exploitation and processing activities at the Chengao port of Sandu Ao Economic Development
Zone in Ningde City, Fujian Province, China. The land covers an area of 0.9168km
2
 and the
adjacent area of 5.0332km
2
. Total minable reserve of the quarry in the area are estimated to be
approximately 2.7 billion tons. The mining right is 50 years and is extensible subject to government
approval. Based on the assessment of an independent professional valuer, Beijing Jingwei Assets
Appraisal Co., Ltd, the fair value of the mine is approximately  148 million (RMB1.9 billion), this
fair value being calculated by reference to the net present value of the expected future cash flows.
In accordance with current UK generally accepted accounting principles the right is recorded at
nominal value in the consolidated balance sheet instead of the fair value of the asset. 8
Chairman ' s Statement
For the 9 months ended 31 December 2002
Asset Reorganization
Since the completion of the reverse take-over of CDF's assets and businesses in May 2002, the
management has continued the restructuring of the Group's business and improving the quality of
the Group assets. In respect of operations, the logistics resources of the Group will be consolidated
and placed under the control of the holding entity of Arko Logistics Limited, a company registered
in the British Virgin Islands. On the other hand, the Group will dispose of assets that have limited
growth potential and build up its own fleet. In 2001, the interest in certain vessels that were old
was realized in the market. Envisaging the potential growth of the trading business, the management
has merged the power plant in Hubei into the entity of Arko International Trading Limited so as
to enhance its balance sheet. All these measures have a positive impact on the profitability of the
Group and are able to create synergy for the Group's businesses.
PROSPECTS
As most of the Company's businesses are in China, China's overall economic growth is a major
factor that affects the performance of the Company. The impressive growth record of China's
economy in recent years testifies to the wisdom of the management in investing in China. Over the
course of the next decade it is expected that China will be on the path of high growth, this time on
a more solid economic foundation and a legal framework. WTO will open China's markets to the
world and corporations around the globe are eagerly preparing to enter China. With extensive
business experience in the China market, the Group will continue to look for opportunities for
projects in China so as to optimize the deployment of the Group's resources. On the other hand, in
order to enhance returns to shareholders, the management will continue to evaluate and improve
the Group's asset portfolio. The Group will gradually achieve stable operating results with promising
growth potential and increase the Group's international profile.
Change of the Company's Name
A Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company to
approve the change of the name of the Company from Arko Energy Holdings plc  to Arko
Holdings plc  in order to reflect more appropriately the nature and direction of the Group's
businesses.
APPRECIATION
I would like to express my sincere gratitude on behalf of all shareholders to the Board of Directors
and employees of the Group for their support, dedication and hard work throughout the financial
period and in future.
CHIN Kam Chiu
Chairman
26 June 2003