 04
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
Chairman's Statement
The Group has taken a number of positive 
steps, both during the financial year and 
since the year-end.
Achievements during the financial year
 - Pre-launch of Visitect
 
 CD4 in 
Washington, US and Cape Town, 
South Africa.
 - Commencement of direct selling 
operations in India and exclusive 
distribution agreement for Food 
Detective
 
 signed with Super Religare 
Laboratories.
 - Award of grant funding of up to  0.15m 
from Scottish Enterprise.
 - Registration of Food Detective
 
 in China.
 - Increase in average revenue per 
Genarrayt
 
 system (excluding Spain) 
by 19% to  12,885.
 - Food Detective
 
 sales exceed  1m 
for the first time.
Achievements since the year-end
 - Agreement intending to appoint 
Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings plc 
(IDS ) as exclusive allergy distributor 
in IDS' core markets.
 - Appointment of Bill Rhodes as 
a non-executive director.
 - Grant of US patent for CD4.
 - Successful institutional placing raising 
 4m before expenses.
Financial performance
Turnover
Turnover for the Group showed a slight 
increase on the prior year at  11.26 million 
(2012:  11.12 million). Our Food Intolerance 
division grew turnover by 13% with continued 
growth in Genarrayt
 
 revenue, with France 
becoming the largest market by sales. 
Food Detective
 
 also performed well, 
exceeding the  1m sales barrier for the 
first time. As reported at the half-year 
stage, the Allergy and Autoimmune division, 
particularly in Germany, was affected by 
the weaker pollen season and Euro exchange 
rate. A part recovery in the second half meant 
that turnover reduced by 7% for the year. 
Infectious Disease turnover was broadly 
unchanged, showing a slight decline 
of 1%, due mainly to a loss of revenue 
(approximately  0.2 million) following 
a ban of blood-based TB tests by 
the Indian government.
Visitect
 
 CD4 remains 
a significant near-term 
opportunity for the Group 
and continues to attract 
substantial interest from 
the wider HIV/AIDS 
healthcare community.
In summary
-  Pre-launch of Visitect
 
 CD4 in Washington, US 
and Cape Town, South Africa
-  Commencement of direct selling operations in 
India and exclusive distribution agreement for Food 
Detective
 
 signed with Super Religare Laboratories
- Registration of Food Detective
 
 in China
-  Increase in average revenue per Genarrayt
 
 system 
(excluding Spain) by 19% to  12,885
- Food Detective
 
 sales exceed  1m for the first time
David Evans Non-executive Chairman Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
05
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Gross profit
Gross profit amounted to  7.05 million 
(2012:  7.00 million) and the gross margin 
was practically unchanged at 62.6% 
compared to 63.0% in the previous year. 
This level of gross profit was in line with 
expectation as the Food Intolerance and 
Allergy/Autoimmune divisions generate 
similar levels of gross profit.
Adjusted Profit before Taxation
The Group generated an adjusted profit 
before tax (adjusted PBT ) of  0.78 million 
compared to  1.00 million in the previous 
year. The reduction was mainly due to 
two reasons; firstly, the effect of increased 
costs associated with the direct subsidiary 
operation in India occurring at the same 
time as the loss of revenue from TB tests 
referred to above; and secondly, due to 
a reduced contribution from the Omega 
GmbH allergy business in Germany, for 
the reasons referred to above. There is 
a reconciliation between adjusted PBT 
and statutory PBT below the income 
statement on page 31.
Taxation 
The Group continues to benefit from 
an enhanced level of R&D tax allowances. 
Due to the increase in capitalised development 
expenditure, which qualifies for the 
aforementioned tax allowances, there is a 
tax credit of  0.31 million in the year compared 
to  0.05 million in the previous year.
Adjusted EPS
Given the tax credit situation above, the Group 
achieved an adjusted profit after tax of  1.09 
million (2012:  1.05 million) resulting in adjusted 
earnings per share of 1.3p (2012: 1.2p). 
Balance sheet
Assets
 Intangible assets increased to  10.35 million 
(2012:  9.14 million) reflecting the level of 
capitalised development expenditure, offset by 
amortisation of intangible assets. There have 
been no impairment charges against goodwill 
or intangible assets throughout the year.
 Inventory levels increased marginally to 
 1.83 million (2012:  1.69 million) and reflect 
the additional need to carry inventory within 
our Indian subsidiary.
 Cash at the year-end reduced to  0. 16 million 
(2012:  1.16 million) reflecting the level of 
investment in development activity and loan 
repayments collectively exceeding cash 
generated from operating activities.
Liabilities
 Trade and other payables increased 
to  1.68 million (2012:  1.45 million).
 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 
reduced to  1.35 million (2012:  1.43 million) 
due mainly to repayment of loans of  0.5m 
and settlement of an IDS-iSYS licence fee 
instalment of  0.13 million, offset by the 
creation in the year of the liability for the final 
licence fee payment of  0.5 million due to IDS.
Funding
During the financial year, the Company 
negotiated an increase to its overdraft facility 
from  0.7 million to  1.7 million, repayable 
on demand. The facility was renewed at the 
beginning of May for one year, prior to the 
institutional placing announced on 24 May 
2013. Further to the approval of shareholders 
given at the general meeting on 10 June, 
the Group raised  4 million before expenses 
through the issue of 23,529,412 new ordinary 
shares at 17p per share. The placing was 
oversubscribed and we are very grateful for 
the support of existing and new shareholders 
alike. The additional funds will enable us 
to implement our main strategies below.
Product strategy
Visitect
 
 CD4
Feedback from the global HIV/AIDS 
healthcare community continues to underpin 
the significance of the opportunity represented 
by the Company's Point-of-Care (POC ) 
Visitect
 
 CD4 test. Subject to a successful 
completion of the technology transfer from the 
Burnet Institute to the Company, a large part of 
the placing proceeds (see Funding above) will 
be used both to scale up the manufacturing 
and inventory-build of CD4 to meet the 
potential demand that undoubtedly exists 
for a POC product solution and to undertake 
in-country field evaluations that are planned 
with major organisations, active in the HIV/AIDS 
arena. The early feasibility work undertaken 
to develop a smartphone App reader is also 
promising in scope and applicability in parts 
of the world where Visitect
 
 CD4 is expected 
to have most impact. This remains the most 
significant near-term opportunity for the Group 
to achieve growth in shareholder value and is 
expected to lead to a longer term strategy for 
POC product opportunities in emerging and 
developing world infectious diseases.
Allergy automation
The Group remains focused on launching 
a panel of approximately 40 allergy tests 
on the automated IDS-iSYS instrument 
by the end of March 2014 and the recently 
announced achievement of finalising the 
assay protocol on which all remaining 
development will take place, along with 
the intention to appoint IDS as distributor 
in their core markets of the UK, Germany, 
France, the Nordic regions and the US 
means we remain committed to building 
a significant presence in the growing 
automated allergy testing market.
Market strategy - BRIC focus
The IVD industry as a whole has seen a 
slowdown in growth during 2012 as the 
major European, US and Japanese markets 
have experienced increased pressure on 
reimbursement levels and cuts in national 
health expenditure. By contrast, the emerging 
markets, particularly India and China, have 
continued to experience double-digit growth 
rates. The Group's decision to set up its 
own subsidiary in India nearly two years ago 
appears prescient against this backdrop and 
is expected to achieve growth both with our 
existing Food Intolerance products and the 
recently launched Allergodip
 
 doctor's office 
test. Both China and Brazil are top-five 
markets, ranked by sales of Food Detective
 
 
and the relationship with HOB Biotech in 
China is expected to deliver further growth 
in this market.
Board and employees
I am very pleased that we have been able 
to attract and appoint Bill Rhodes as a 
non-executive director to the Board and 
look forward to working with him, given 
his knowledge and experience built up 
over many years, particularly with Becton 
Dickinson, as we implement our strategies 
outlined above. Mike Gurner has decided 
to retire and step down from the Board 
with immediate effect. I would like to thank 
Mike for his contribution over the many years 
since the Group became a public Company 
and I, on behalf of the Board, wish him all 
the best in his retirement.
Outlook
More than half of Group turnover is generated 
in the UK and Europe, predominantly through 
the Food Intolerance and Allergy/Autoimmune 
divisions. The economic uncertainty in this 
region has led to a slowdown in growth in 
European IVD markets and the ability to grow 
our own business is not immune from the 
broader landscape. In Germany in particular, 
the reimbursement picture remains uncertain 
and the early pollen season has once more 
suffered from some of the wettest weather 
seen in Northern Germany for many years. 
Sales in the Middle East have also got off to 
a slower start, in part, linked to the political 
situation. To counter risk in these areas, we 
have a strategy to focus on the emerging BRIC 
markets and our success in growing revenue 
in the year ahead will be dependent on 
whether sales into these higher growth 
territories can compensate for the pressures 
being experienced in Europe and elsewhere.
Beyond the immediate term, our ability to 
drive growth will be best delivered through the 
successful commercialisation of the CD4 test 
and automated allergy tests on the IDS-iSYS 
instrument. A significant amount of progress 
has been made in the past year and it is now 
time to deliver on these strategies.
David Evans
Non-Executive Chairman
28 June 2013