 We made two new exploration discoveries, Mkizi and Ngisi, which, 
along with the appraisal results, increased the total discovered 
resource on Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to 15.7 TCF at year-end. This volume 
will underpin a minimum two, 5-million tonne per annum LNG Train 
development along with domestic market commitments under the 
PSCs, and provides encouragement for a potential third LNG Train. 
We have made good progress on project planning for the LNG 
development with the preferred site for the onshore processing and 
liquefaction facilities having been submitted to the Government 
of Tanzania for approval.
Through the drilling success in Tanzania, Ophir added 254mmboe 
to the Company's net 2C contingent resources with a three-year 
average finding cost of US$0.90/boe.
Equatorial Guinea FLNG moving forward
In 2013 Ophir agreed to progress a Floating LNG (FLNG) project 
on Block R with the Government of Equatorial Guinea. This 
led to preparations for a three-well exploration and appraisal 
programme on the block that is planned for mid-2014. In February 
2014 we announced an agreement with Petrofac to provide 
upstream development services
3
 and that we had also received 
several proposals for the provision of the FLNG vessel and related 
midstream services. We are confident that 2014 will see continued 
progress in both the resource base and commercialisation of 
Block R's substantial gas resources.
2014 represents a potentially transformational year 
with the drillbit
Interpretation of the substantial number of 3D seismic surveys we 
acquired across the portfolio in 2012 and early 2013 has allowed 
us to firm up a high-impact exploration and appraisal drilling 
programme in 2014 which will see up to 1 1 wells drilled. Further 
drilling is planned in Tanzania on Blocks 1, 3 and 4 and we will also 
drill a well on the Tende prospect on the East Pande licence, which is 
primarily prospective for gas but could have the potential for liquids.
In West Africa, a multi-well campaign has commenced offshore 
Gabon. Although the first well on the pre-salt play, Padouck Deep-1, 
has been commercially unsuccessful, it has reduced a number 
of play risks providing encouragement for further exploration. 
This will be followed by the Affanga Deep-1 well on an extension 
to the Ogoou  Delta play and then another pre-salt test, Okala-1. 
Having made progress on the development of our discovered 
resource base in Equatorial Guinea, we plan three more wells 
in 2014 to add further resource, to appraise the existing discoveries 
and to test the deeper liquids play on Block R.
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer's joint review
2013 was another year of significant operational and strategic 
progress for Ophir. The Company enters 2014 with the largest 
discovered resource base and the strongest financial position 
in its history, well placed to deliver a potentially transformational 
exploration programme and capitalise on new opportunities 
to enhance the portfolio and add value.
Delivering on our clear and focused strategy
Our strategy and business model are straightforward and remain 
unchanged. Our aim is to create shareholder value through the 
exploration and appraisal phase of the E&P cycle and then at the 
appropriate time monetise that value. We demonstrated this during 
201 3 with the announcement of the sale of 20% of our interest in 
Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania to Pavilion Energy for US$1.288 billion
1
. 
This transaction was the culmination of several years of hard work, 
technical achievement and industry leadership. The project saw 
Ophir enter a then unfashionable play in East Africa and achieve 
material exploration success to the point where the discovered 
gas resources are now on the cusp of commercial development. 
In addition, we executed an extensive farm-out agreement with 
OMV across our acreage in Gabon
2
, and relinquished acreage in 
Madagascar, Congo, Ghana and Kenya as we continue to focus 
investment on areas that can add the highest value for shareholders.
Further drilling success and resource additions in Tanzania
During 2013 Ophir drilled eight exploration and appraisal wells. Six 
of these were successful, with the two disappointments being the 
Starfish-1 exploration well offshore Ghana and the Mlinzi Mbali-1 
exploration well in Block 7 Tanzania. All appraisal wells in Tanzania 
either confirmed or increased the discovered gas resources in 
Blocks 1, 3 and 4. We undertook successful appraisal drilling with 
our Joint Venture partner BG Group on the Jodari, Mzia and Pweza 
discoveries, which included gas flow tests on all three fields that 
came in ahead of expectations. These results have de-risked 
the commerciality of the resource base and are likely to lead 
to significant cost savings on the upstream development due 
to a reduction in the number of planned development wells. 
The Company continued to deliver on its strategic  
goals in 201 3 and remains focused on creating  
shareholder value through its exploration activities.
1  On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement 
to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4. This transaction 
is unconditional and subject to completion.
2  On 18 December 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement 
to sell to OMV a 10% interest in each of the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks and a 
30% interest in each of the Gnondo and Manga Blocks. Completion of this 
transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
3  On 20 February 2014, Ophir announced that it had signed a non-binding 
Letter of Intent with Petrofac to provide services as operator of the proposed 
gas development up to the FID.
Governance
page 44
10 Ophir Energy plc 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Oil & Gas
Industry
Financial &
Accounting
Legal &
Commercial
Capital
Markets
In 2013 we secured access to two drilling rigs under long-term 
contract with options to extend; these being the Deepsea Metro I 
drillship for our programmes in Tanzania and potentially Kenya, and 
the Vantage Titanium Explorer for our programmes in Gabon and 
Equatorial Guinea. If successful, Ophir has additional slots under 
option on both rigs to accelerate appraisal and further exploration.
Ophir continued to broaden its exploration portfolio in 2013 
with new blocks provisionally awarded in Gabon, subject to 
the successful negotiation of PSCs, which cover the emerging 
deepwater play outboard of our existing acreage and more  
recently in February 2014 with entry into acreage offshore  
the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean
4
.
Capital management
In March 201 3 Ophir raised US$837 .6 million through a Placing  
and Rights Issue and ended the year with net cash balances of 
US$667 million. This excludes the proceeds from the sale of a  
20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to Pavilion Energy
5
.
A key element of our strategy is to maintain a strong balance  
sheet and Ophir is well funded both to meet its 2014 commitments 
and to capture new opportunities to create shareholder value.
Commitment to Health, Safety and the Environment
A resounding commitment to Health, Safety and the Environment 
remains at the core of our business and it is pleasing to report that 
in 2013 we had only one minor Lost Time Injury. Ophir continues to 
support sustainable CSR programmes in the countries we operate, 
and we value highly our reputation as an integral, positive part 
of the communities that host our personnel and operations.
Strengthening the team
During 2013 we added significant further expertise throughout  
the Company, particularly at an operational and technical level.  
We also strengthened the Board at an executive and non-executive 
level, with four new members. Jonathan Taylor, a co-founder of 
the Company, stepped down from his executive and Board roles. 
Jonathan has played a pivotal part in the first chapter of Ophir's 
growth and the Board thanks him for his invaluable efforts over  
the past eight years. 
4  On 4 March 2014, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement with 
WHL Energy to acquire a 75% operated interest in Blocks PEC-5B/1 and PEC-5B/2. 
Completion of this transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
5  On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement 
to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4. This transaction 
is unconditional and subject to completion.
Disappointing share price performance
Whilst 2013 was a year of considerable achievement for the 
Company, it was not without its disappointments, including 
the unsuccessful Starfish-1 and Mlinzi Mbali-1 wells. On Block 1 
in Tanzania we were unable to reach agreement with the operator 
BG Group to drill the high-impact 1C prospect after seismic 
interpretation failed to de-risk its potential. We delivered two 
material commercial transactions (Pavilion Energy and OMV deals) 
but we were not able to farm-down our interest in Block 7 ahead 
of drilling. Drilling in Gabon was also delayed as we were unable to 
secure a drilling unit as early as expected and the first well in 2014, 
Padouck Deep-1, has been unsuccessful.
Although we believe our accomplishments during the year 
significantly outweighed these disappointments, the sector, 
especially exploration-focused stocks is currently out of favour with 
investors. Ophir was not alone amongst our peers in suffering a 
year of negative market returns and we are clearly disappointed 
with our share price performance. The Board and management 
remain focused on operational delivery and executing our business 
model, which we believe will ultimately reward shareholders over 
the long term.
In summary, 2013 was an extremely active period for Ophir 
both operationally and commercially, with record net discovered 
resources, continued success with the drillbit and the partial 
sale of our interests in Tanzania underpinning the shareholder 
value created since our formation. While the progress we have 
made in growing the net asset value of the firm has clearly not 
been reflected in the performance of the share price, we thank 
shareholders for their patience and their ongoing support and 
our staff for their hard work and dedication during the year. 
The Board looks forward to 2014 with enthusiasm and anticipation 
as we embark on one of the most extensive and dramatic 
drilling programmes undertaken by a European E&P company 
in recent times. 
Mr Nicholas Smith Dr Nick Cooper
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Board experience (No. of Board members) Board diversity
 Male 8
 Female 2
Board
page 46
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report