 02 Paladin Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chairman's Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report that 2002 has been an excellent year 
for Paladin with substantial progress made in the Company's
development and another set of record operating and 
financial results. 
Production from existing assets was complemented by a significant
contribution from assets acquired during the course of the year,
with annual production being more than 50 per cent higher 
than in 2001. Commodity prices also remained high, resulting 
in a strong financial performance for the year and a robust 
year-end financial position.
2002 was also a very active year on the business development
front. In the UK, Norwegian and Danish sectors of the North Sea,
the Group increased its exposure to several of its existing assets
either through direct negotiation with other joint-venture partners
or through the exercise of pre-emptive rights. For limited
additional management cost and effort, the Group now holds
larger stakes in a number of its assets which are more material 
in the context of a growing corporate portfolio.
The Group also acquired significant stakes in two new assets: 
a 20 per cent stake in the Brage Field, offshore Norway, and 
a 30.82 per cent stake in the Ross Field, in the UK sector of the
North Sea. 
In December, the Company announced the proposed acquisition
of a package of operated UKCS interests from BP and Amerada
Hess for $153 million. This transaction, which is expected to
complete towards the end of the second quarter, is a major step
forward in the development of your Company.
As the final stage in its rationalisation of those assets originally
held by Pittencrieff Resources plc, the Company recently
announced the disposal of its remaining interests in West Texas
for $5.4 million. This sale effectively brings the Group's
involvement in onshore US oil and gas production to an end.
Exploration is an integral part of the Company's strategy,
complementing the Group's emphasis on acquisition and
subsequent exploitation. Good progress was made during the
year in building a broader portfolio of exploration interests. In the
UK, the Group successfully applied for three licences in the 20th
Licensing Round and acquired exploration acreage adjacent to
the Ross and Blake Fields. In Norway, terms were agreed to
acquire exploration and appraisal interests from Statoil and Norsk
Hydro. Last, but by no means least, in Tunisia the Group had its
first exploration success with discovery of oil in the Adam-1 well.
In support of this active business development programme and
to provide headroom for further growth, the Company completed
a successful debt refinancing exercise with a new $250 million
syndicated revolving credit facility led by J.P . Morgan plc in
August and announced a  42 million placing and open offer 
in December, which was completed in early January 2003. 
Results
A substantial increase in production combined with continuing
high oil prices led to operating cash flow (before interest, tax 
and depreciation but after administration costs and working
capital movements) of  96.3 million (2001:  61.0 million) and
profit before tax of  66.0 million (2001:  37.8 million). Net profit
for the year almost doubled to  20.1 million (2001:  10.8 million 
as restated), resulting in earnings per share of 7.76 pence 
(2001: 4.88 pence as restated).
J Malcolm Gourlay
Chairman
2002 has been a very successful
year for Paladin and your
Company is well positioned to
make further progress in 2003. 03 Paladin Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts 2002
Dividend
After due and careful consideration of the scale and diversity of
the Group's cash flow and future prospects, your Board decided
to commence payment of a dividend at the interim stage in 2002.
It is intended that the level of payment will be progressive in real
terms but also sustainable in a lower oil price environment.
The Board will recommend payment of a final dividend of 1.0 pence
per share for 2002 to shareholders for approval at the Annual
General Meeting, making a total dividend payment for 2002 
of 1.5 pence per share. If approved by shareholders, the final
dividend will be paid on 23 May to those shareholders on the
register on 25 April 2003.
Production
Net production for the year totalled 9.9 MMbbl of oil and NGL
and 4.6 Bscf of gas, a combined average of 29,117 boepd, which
is a record for Paladin and represents an increase of 60 per cent
from 18,255 boepd in 2001.
Overall, the Group invested  26.4 million on production and
development projects (2001:  11.4 million):  11.7 million in
Norway,  1.4 million in Denmark,  6.9 million in the UK, 
 6.0 million in Indonesia and  0.4 million in the USA.
Exploration
The Group invested  3.6 million on exploration activities in the
UK, Norway, Denmark, Indonesia, Romania and Tunisia during
the year (2001:  5.6 million). The Group's exploration portfolio 
in the UK and Norway was augmented through licensing rounds
and acquisitions, and there was an encouraging oil discovery 
in southern Tunisia.
Reserves
Proven and probable reserves (on an entitlement basis) at 
31 December 2002 were 108.2 MMboe compared to 63.1 MMboe
at 31 December 2002, a 72 per cent increase. Net positive
revisions of 12.0 MMboe replaced 113 per cent of production 
in the year. Acquisitions in the UK, Norway and Denmark added
a further 43.7 MMboe to the Group's reserve base.
Oil and gas reserves constitute 83 per cent and 17 per cent
respectively of the overall reserve base.
On a working interest basis, Group reserves increased to 
127.6 MMboe (2001: 80.9 MMboe).
Board positions
Daniel Stewart-Roberts was appointed as Finance Director and
joined the Board on 1 August 2002. A Chartered Accountant, 
he was Accounting and Tax Director of MOL Rt., the Hungarian
integrated oil and gas business, prior to joining Paladin.
Given the rapid growth in the Group's asset base over the last
four years, and with the appointment of Daniel Stewart-Roberts,
Cuth McDowell, who previously had board responsibility for
financial as well as commercial and business development
activities, is now focusing on the latter.
As announced recently, Dr George Watkins CBE joined the Board
as an independent director on 21 February 2003. He joined 
the Conoco Group in 1973 and held several senior appointments
both in the UK and abroad, finally serving as Chairman and
Managing Director of Conoco (UK) Ltd. from 1993 until his
retirement in 2002. He is also a past President of the UK Offshore
Operators Association.
Corporate governance developments
There have been a number of important developments in
corporate governance recently, notably the recommendations
contained in the Higgs and Smith Reports, which were published
in January 2003. The contents of these reports have been noted
and steps will be taken to ensure early compliance, or to identify
reasons why compliance is not appropriate for your Company,
once the revised Combined Code has been finalised and published. 
Strategy and outlook
Paladin's strategy is to grow through both acquisition and
exploration with the objective of securing reserves and production
on a commercially attractive basis. The natural sellers of interests
purchased by Paladin are major oil companies for whom the
interests are no longer material, in terms of either the scale of
future investment or potential rewards. We remain confident 
that there will be opportunities to acquire assets in the coming
months on terms that will contribute to the further development
of the Group for the benefit of our shareholders.
Notwithstanding the current oil price and the political uncertainties
in the Middle East, we continue to plan and evaluate acquisition
opportunities using a long-run $ per barrel Brent oil price in 
the mid-teens in real 2000 terms. Consistent application of our
strategy and discipline in the evaluation and pricing of acquisition
opportunities have served the Group well to date, and will
continue to do so in the future.
The Group's reserves base and production have grown substantially
over the past year. The $153 million proposed acquisition of 
BP's and Amerada's interests in the UKCS Montrose, Arbroath
and Arkwright Fields, together with related discoveries and
exploration acreage, was announced on 12 December. This is 
a major step for the Group not only in terms of the size of the
transaction, but also in that it will involve Paladin taking on
operatorship of significant interests for the first time. Good progress
in securing the necessary regulatory and partner approvals has
been made and I anticipate that completion of the acquisition
will occur by the end of the second quarter.
Production has averaged approximately 37,000 boepd for 2003 to
date, and reserves at the beginning of the year were 108.2 MMboe.
Completion of the acquisition of the BP and Amerada interests
will result in the Group substantially exceeding the targets set in
2001 to increase production and reserves to 35,000 boepd and
120 MMboe respectively by 2004. In the light of the expected
performance from those interests and the Group's other assets,
the Company has set new targets for continued growth, namely
to increase production and reserves to 100,000 boepd and 
250 MMboe respectively in five years.
2002 has been a very successful year for Paladin and your Company
is well positioned to make further progress in 2003. The
achievements to date are due in large part to the professionalism,
commitment and hard work of the executive team and their staff.
I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of shareholders 
to thank them all for their very substantial contribution to the
Company's success over the last twelve months.
J Malcolm Gourlay
Chairman
18 March 2003 