 CHAiRMAN's sTATEMENT
2009 proved to be a challenging year for the Group. During 
the period under review, global equity, commodity and financial 
markets experienced unprecedented turbulence which in turn 
has had a marked impact on our balance sheet and profit and 
loss account. Trading in our advisory business was also down 
with an absence of success fees earned from our advisory clients. 
As set out later in this statement we also pursued a number of 
asset transactions, however, without access to reliable sources 
of finance we were unable to conclude them. Despite these 
disappointments we have recently completed the acquisition of 
Aupec Limited (Aupec ) which, the Board believes, will provide 
the Group with significant opportunities to increase its advisory 
business and improve our in house technical skills. 
We remain fully focused on the energy sector and will continue 
to source investment opportunities that create shareholder 
returns at an acceptable level of risk. We believe that the 
acquisition of Aupec will complement this strategy both in terms 
of providing the Group with access to internal expertise and also 
by way of access to Aupec's client base.
iNvEsTMENTs
At the start of the year the Group's principal energy sector 
investments were in Faroe Petroleum plc (Faroe ), Reservoir 
Exploration Technologies ASA (RXT ) and Transeuro Energy 
Corporation (Transeuro ).
With regard to Faroe, as at 30 June 2009 its share price had fallen 
to  0.7025 pence against a purchase price of  1.82. The Board 
believed and continues to believe in the underlying value in Faroe. 
Equally the Board is pleased to see that recent improvement 
in market sentiment and news flow has helped Faroe's share 
price climb back to  1.3675. We remain of the view that Faroe 
has significant long term upside. The Board believes that the 
diminution in value is temporary, and as the asset is held as 
available-for-sale this fall has been reflected in equity. 
With regard to RXT, our investment has faired poorly. Like most 
sectors, the energy sector holds back on investment when faced 
with recessionary conditions. RXT, being a specialised exploration 
technology company, has borne the full force of the reduction 
in investment levels. RXT undertook an emergency placing at a 
severely dilutive price in March 2009. Overall the Board feels that 
it is unlikely that this investment will return to pre 2008 levels and 
as a result we have impaired the investment down to its market 
price. The impact of this was to record a charge of  1.2 million in 
the year.
The performance of our investment in Transeuro has been 
mixed. The initial investment was in a CA$ 1,250,000 convertible 
debenture with warrants attached. Values were attributed 
to the convertibility of the debenture and the warrants. The 
loan component of the debenture was valued at $50,000 as, 
at inception, the majority of the value in the arrangement was 
attributed to the warrants. As at the year ended 30 June 2009, 
Transeuro shares were suspended following the announcement 
of a capital reorganisation and discussions with its creditors. As 
the assets were held at fair value through the profit and loss 
account both the warrant and the convertibility were impaired 
with a corresponding charge to the income statement of 
 0.7 million. Subsequent to the year end Transeuro's shares 
have recommenced trading, and Transeuro has repaid half of the 
outstanding capital and paid the final interest payment in advance. 
Our remaining investment is fully covered by a fixed charge over 
certain Transeuro assets. The charge is set at a level well below 
the market value of the assets and we are confident that the loan 
will be repaid in full. 
OTHER ENERGy sECTOR iNvEsTiNG ACTiviTiEs
During the year we pursued a number of asset and corporate 
based deals. In particular we attempted to invest in a significant 
gas field in the Former Soviet Union. We also progressed to 
an advanced stage a reverse takeover which would have been 
transformational for the Group. Whilst we were unsuccessful 
in executing these transactions we continue to see a healthy 
flow of investment opportunities. Importantly, we believe that 
the acquisition of Aupec will provide the Group with significant 
technical expertise and investment appraisal skills which will prove 
complementary to our investing activities.
2 THE PARKMEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 REsiDUAL iNvEsTMENTs
The Group continues to hold a number of technology 
investments including Speed-Trap Holdings Limited, Future 
Route Limited, and Retento Limited. These investments are 
recorded at fair value. During the year, another of the Group's 
investments, Thruvision Limited, was placed into administration 
by its debt providers and Red-M Group Limited entered into 
a pre pack administration process. Accordingly, we impaired 
these investments to  nil incurring a charge of  2.2 million. The 
Board will continue to monitor the performance of its residual 
investments.
REsULTs AND DiviDENDs
In the absence of success fees earned from corporate finance 
transactions our revenues fell to  0.2 million (2008:  1.3 million). 
Administrative expenses amounted to  2.7 million 
(2008:  2.6 million) which were somewhat inflated by costs of 
 0.4 million relating to the aborted transaction noted in Other 
Energy Sector Investing Activities  above. The Group's operating 
loss for the year was  2.5 million (2008:  1.3 million). 
The loss before tax was  6.3 million (2008:  0.4 million), after 
amounts written off investments of  3.5 million (2008: nil) and 
other losses of  0.7 million (2008: gain of  0.l million) arising on 
the write down of the Transeuro warrants. After discontinued 
operations, which relate to the reduction in value of the deferred 
consideration due on the prior year sale of Quayside 
Corporate Services Limited, this increased to  6.9 million 
(2008:  0.7 million).
 
The Group's key performance indicator is net asset per share. 
The impact of the current year performance on our balance 
sheet was to reduce our net asset per share from 4.40 pence 
(at 30 June 2008) to 1.52 pence. However, we remain debt free 
with consolidated cash balances of  2.5 million. 
The Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend 
(2008:  nil).
PRiNCiPAL RisKs AND UNCERTAiNTiEs 
The principal trading risk of the Group is that of sourcing, 
appraising and managing suitable investments. As noted, the 
Group is focused on making investments in the oil and gas energy 
sectors and there are inherent risks associated with investing 
in this sector. Principally these relate to commodity prices, in 
particular crude oil and gas prices, and also the exchange rate of 
the US dollar (in which these commodity prices are expressed) 
and the Group's presentation currency. Notwithstanding this the 
Group is mindful of the long term nature of investments made in 
its chosen investment focus area and in selecting its investments 
has sought to identify long term capital gain opportunities.
OUTLOOK
As announced on 12 October this year the Group conditionally 
agreed to acquire the entire share capital of Aupec Limited 
(Aupec ). The acquisition went unconditional on 2 November 
2009. Aupec is a private company which was established in 1986 
to commercialise on the accumulated skills of members of the 
University of Aberdeen's Department of Economics. Aupec has 
since grown into a respected global authority in energy sector 
economics, valuation and benchmarking and has been providing 
economic consultancy services to the oil and gas sector for over 
20 years. Aupec has built a reputation for delivery of high quality 
decision support tools and independent consulting advice in 
the energy sector. Aupec's clients include major, independent 
and national oil companies, oil service companies, government 
ministries and agencies, as well as financial institutions.
The Board believes that there is a natural fit between the two 
organisations which will allow the Group to expedite its stated 
strategy to be a leading small cap oil and gas investment and 
advisory house. Furthermore the acquisition will allow the 
enlarged Group to:
n diversify the Group's revenue stream
n increase our financial and technical appraisal skills relative to
 the energy sector
n promote Aupec's services across Parkmead's wider network
Overall the Directors believe that the enlarged Group will be 
better positioned to deliver shareholder value in the medium and 
long term. 
Despite the gruelling impact that the markets have wrought over 
the past 18 months and the consequent financial uncertainties, 
the Group looks forward with some degree of optimism. We 
have taken action to reduce our cost base. Our investments 
in Faroe and Transeuro have fared much better over the past 
few months, the Group remains debt free and has  2.5 million 
of cash. Our prospects have been boosted significantly by the 
acquisition of Aupec and I look forward to reporting back to 
shareholders on progress over the coming year. 
Colin Goodall
2 December 2009
3 THE PARKMEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009