 The year under review
I am able to report that during 2002, despite a
number of unforeseen distractions, the Group had
considerable success in achieving its principal
objectives. The issues that faced your Group on
entering 2002 were in terms of corporate
restructuring, litigation, cash requirements and the
rationalisation and progression of your development
portfolio.
By the autumn of 2002 we were successful in
completing the first key stage in our strategy for
unlocking and improving shareholder value. This
was achieved through the resolution, on sound
commercial terms, of the litigation with Pathfinder
Recovery 2 PLC and achieving the sale of Merchant
Village to Selfridges for  15.3 million which
significantly improved the cash balances and gearing.
During the year we have achieved planning on the
second phase of River Quarter, Manchester, and have
assembled an important site at North Gate, Newark.
Our deal with Selfridges won an award at the
Property Week Scottish Property Awards. All this
adds strength to the Group in moving forward with
the rationalisation and delivery of its development
portfolio.
It was therefore a disappointment that in
November 2002, an unsought bid was made for a
material stake in your Company. Shareholders will be
aware that this offer, which at 12p per share
significantly undervalued your Company, was only
accepted by a small minority of shareholders.
However, on the back of this and other share
purchases the bidder, Sunnyview Limited, called an
extraordinary general meeting of the Company in
order to remove a majority of your Board members
and replace them with its nominees with a view to
the liquidation or sale of your Group.
The motions at the EGM, held in March 2003,
were defeated but the action has undoubtedly set us
back in the timetable. Not only did it cost time and
money, it also created an uncertainty that was
detrimental to financing and development deals we
were putting in place. However, in line with my
undertaking at the EGM, we have held constructive
discussions with Sunnyview resulting in it being
offered Board representation, as outlined below. We
hope now that we can once again devote our full
attention to the ongoing affairs of your Group.
Results and dividend
The Group's pre-tax losses for the year were reduced
to  112,000 from a loss of  1,271,000 for the
previous year on turnover of  17.5 million and
 4.6 million respectively. This was after taking into
account significant extra holding costs, including
unforeseen building collapses associated with
Merchant Village, and the heavy interest burden your
Group was carrying. The loss per share was 0.13p
(2001 loss - 1.30p). Net assets per share were
marginally ahead at 18.76p (2001 - 18.56p) and the
Group's debt ratio was reduced to 0.15:1 (2001 -
0.72:1). Further details of these results are contained
in the Operating and Financial Review.
The Board was very aware that Group
administration costs were high. To an extent this has
been due to exceptional matters such as the take-
overs and litigation and in particular the additional
legal and senior staff costs involved in these. Core
overhead costs were addressed during the second half
of the year and are now at a level commensurate with
a group of our size. Much of the core costs relate to
the salaries of key staff who are essential to the
realisation of future profits from the business.
2 PATHFINDER PROPERTIES PLC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
By the autumn of 2002 we were successful in
completing the first key stage in our strategy for
unlocking and improving shareholder value. 
Victoria Station
Arndale
Shopping
Centre
Cathedral
Piccadilly Station
Piccadilly
Gardens
Town Hall
G-Mex
Centre
Bridgewater
Concert
Hall
Oxford Road Station
G-Mex Station
Deansgate Station
Salford
Central
Station
River Quarter
MANCHESTER
A57 Mancunian Way
Chairman's statement Nonetheless, we continue to monitor this situation
and our requirements.
Although the results for the year have not
produced a net profit, we have confidence in the
future and believe that we should also reward
shareholders for their continued support. The Board
is therefore proposing the payment of a dividend for
the year and recommend a dividend of 0.25 pence
per share (2001 - 0.15 pence per share), amounting
to  173,000. If approved the dividend will be paid on
16 September 2003 to shareholders on the register at
8 August 2003.
Your Board 
As reported in last year's Chairman's Statement, I
joined your Board as Chairman on the retirement of
Sir Christopher Leaver on 25 March 2002 and Claire
O'Connor was appointed as a non-executive director
in February 2002. In April 2002, Simon Dawkins
resigned as executive director having lost the
confidence of your Board.
In order to lead the Group through this difficult
time it has been appropriate for us to capitalise on
the experience, skills and specialisms of your non-
executive directors. I am very grateful to both Claire
O'Connor and Marc Green for their commitment
and efforts in the delivery of our strategy in an
executive capacity during this period, together with
Malcolm Bacchus our Finance Director.
Mr Edward Azouz, Chairman and Chief Executive
of Sunnyview Limited, has accepted an offer to join
the Board in a non-executive capacity and is
standing for appointment at the annual general
meeting. We believe it is appropriate our major
shareholder should work with your Board in this
manner.
The Board is continuing to review the Group's
executive management needs and requirements to
deliver our strategy to shareholders. Meanwhile I am
pleased to announce that two key members of the
team, Duncan Austin and Justin Thomas, have
accepted the role of property directors on our
appropriate subsidiary company boards.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to
thank Marc Green for all his efforts and his
contribution over the years, as he is retiring from the
Board at the AGM. We wish him all the best in the
future.
3 PATHFINDER PROPERTIES PLC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
River Quarter: Manchester:
Living: Working: Shopping:
Over the last few years,
Manchester has changed
beyond all recognition with an
increasing demand for modern
living centred around its many
canals, rivers and pathways.
With four development phases
across its 3.25 acre site, River
Quarter will create a vibrant
new community with public
squares, riverside walks and
500,000 sq ft shopping,
residential and office
accommodation. Turner Street: Manchester:
Living: Working: Shopping:
Located within the Smithfield
Conservation Area of Manchester, this
small development will incorporate a
mixture of listed and modern buildings. A
short walk from the High Street and the
Arndale Centre, it is close to our highly
successful Church Street development and
the traditional core of the City's Northern
Quarter.
Victoria Station
Arndale
Shopping
Centre
Cathedral
Piccadilly Station
Piccadilly
Gardens
Town Hall
G-Mex
Centre
Bridgewater
Concert
Hall
Oxford Road Station
G-Mex Station
Deansgate Station
Salford
Central
Station
Turner Street
MANCHESTER
A57 Mancunian Way
Chairman's statement continued
4 PATHFINDER PROPERTIES PLC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
The future
As indicated in the letter to shareholders on
28 February 2003, an exciting point has been reached
in your Group's development. Significant progress is
now being made both at River Quarter, Manchester,
and North Gate, Newark, to provide future profits.
The Group has received offers of finance for the
development of Phase 1 at River Quarter and is
currently in advanced negotiations with selected
partners. At Newark, we have agreed the principles of
a development, for which we have received an offer
of funding, together with a partial site sale.
We have every confidence in the realisation of our
development proposals. In the intervening time we
continue to expense certain overhead and interest
costs. As a result of this policy and of the
development time-scale of existing projects, our
profits will continue to be lumpy. We are therefore
also actively seeking smaller development or trading
opportunities, with shorter time-frames, utilising
some of the cash released from the sale of Merchant
Village. With this in mind, we are hoping to exchange
conditional contracts to acquire a site of this type in
Yorkshire in the near future. The planned project
would provide both residential and retail
accommodation on a 1.25 acre site and would be
expected to be completed within two years.
Finally I would like to take this opportunity to
thank my colleagues on the Board of Directors and
all our staff for the hard work they have put in
during a particularly trying period. Bearing in mind
the personal uncertainties that have arisen
understandably it has not been easy for them, but I
hope now that we can move forward in a way that
shareholders can benefit from the efforts that have
been made.
I look forward to reporting to you on further
progress in the near future.
John Parry
Chairman
27 June 2003
We have confidence in the future and believe
that we should also reward shareholders for
their continued support. The Board is therefore
proposing payment of a dividend for the year. 