 3 3 3 3
Patientline plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004
Chairman's statement
In the year to 31 March 2004 the Group has capitalised on its market and technological leadership to
achieve rapid growth in the number of contracted hospitals, to create new revenue streams and to
enter new markets. The Group is now well on its way to profitability and to becoming a significant
force in the healthcare market.
UK Operating Review
As planned, the Company has sustained the pace of roll out in the UK achieved in the second half of
the previous year. A total of just under 21,000 terminals went live during the year, taking the total
number of operational hospitals from 75 to 120 during the year. This achievement has been the result
of significant investment in people and processes over the past two years, complemented by the new
supply chain agreement with Plexus. Under that agreement, Plexus takes full responsibility for terminal
production through to the hanging of terminals on the wall and any subsequent repairs. The pace of
implementation has further enhanced the Company's credibility and resulted in Patientline
representing around 90% of the terminals currently operating in the UK.
As a result, Patientline has had continuing success in winning contracts from those hospitals that had
not yet made a choice of supplier and our win rate has been enhanced by hospitals transferring to
Patientline from competing suppliers. As at 8 June 2004, Patientline has contracts with or has been
formally selected by 191 hospitals in the UK, compared with 159 at the beginning of the last 
financial year.
Our new generation system, Terminal 2, has continued to perform well technically, while revenue
growth has been encouraging and consistent with expectations. For fully installed Terminal 2 hospitals,
seasonally-adjusted revenues overtook Terminal 1 (our first generation system) in the second quarter
and reached an average of  2.07 per terminal per day in the second half - up 5% on Terminal 1.
Terminal 1 revenues maintained a level just under  2 per terminal per day, with the second half
slightly below the first half, partly because of temporary ward closures and service interruption at one
hospital because of flooding. With new services such as games and internet access being rolled out,
prospects for revenue growth on Terminal 2 are encouraging.
Patientline is increasingly being seen by hospitals as a key partner in the provision of high quality and
cost-effective healthcare. By providing the equivalent of the  last mile' of connectivity to every bed,
with a specially designed PC at every bedside, we believe that Patientline can contribute significantly
to the Government's agenda for improvement of the NHS.
The year just ended saw a number of important landmarks in this area. Use of the system to access an
advanced electronic care record system at the bedside went live at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital
after a year of joint development work with the NHS Trust. This is an industry first and is already
starting to bring important improvements in the quality of care, patient involvement and time
utilisation. There has been great interest in this development from around the UK and internationally.
Core development work was also completed for the UK's first on line food ordering system, which is
being installed in North Tees Hospital. This will bring improvements in service to patients as well as
efficiencies to the hospital, and is again generating widespread interest.
Dutch Operating Review
In its first full year following the integration of the Hospital Entertainment and Telehire businesses, the
Dutch business achieved improved financial results and significant operational progress.
New contracts were signed for the company's  mid range' system using conventional television
technology. These hospitals are typically those not yet ready to use the system for IT access and other
services at the bedside. 4 4 4 4
Patientline plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004
Chairman's statement continued
A second hospital went live with the Terminal 2 system and revenue performance at both hospitals has
been encouraging, despite significantly lower telephony charges compared with the UK.
Service levels were improved and costs reduced by the launch of a Dutch customer care centre to
handle patient registration and payment.
There is a growing interest in services such as IT access in Holland. Combined with the ability and
willingness of hospitals to make investments to improve their services, this provides an encouraging
environment for the future development of the business.
Other Markets
There has been a consistent flow of interest in the Patientline product and service from other markets
around the world. We have nevertheless been rigorous in giving priority to the development of the
UK business, followed by that in Holland. This has been accompanied by cautious exploration of the
opportunities in other European markets and the United States.
While determined to protect shareholders' capital and not divert UK management, the board believes
that the opportunity to create value in the US is substantial. Unlike the UK, the prime business model
in the US would involve the sale and subsequent support of Patientline systems, thus avoiding the
capital intensity of the UK business and ensuring an immediate contribution to cash flow and profits.
The Company has been slowly raising its profile in the US and gathering market knowledge over the
past three years. This has now led to the first two pilot sites, supported by our existing US partnership
arrangements. The first is a small-scale initial installation in California at a flagship hospital in the
Tenet system, which is now operating successfully. The second is an $800,000 contract for a new 130-
bed state-of-the-art heart hospital, which is part of a 1,000-bed university hospital group in Florida.
The contract has an eight year term, covering the initial purchase of the system and a 
post-installation support service. We are working in partnership with GE Healthcare to provide access
to GE clinical systems at the bedside when the hospital opens next year. These two contracts are
representative of the level of interest currently being experienced across the US and Canada.
Performance
The Financial Review contains details of the results for the year. Progress was achieved in all of the
areas critical to value creation - growth in the hospital base, execution of the roll out programme,
enhancement of revenues per terminal and the implementation of cost efficiencies. In all of these
areas, performance was equal to or ahead of our expectations, with more to come during the course
of the current year.
While growth in the contract and asset bases and in EBITDA are all vital to the realisation of
shareholder value, the management team is firmly focussed on the achievement of profitability.
A total of
21,000 terminals
went live during
the year, taking
the total
number of
operational
hospitals from
75 to 120 during
the year. 5 5 5 5
Patientline plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004
Chairman's statement continued
Employees and the Board
The success of the management team and staff of the company in the UK in commissioning 45 new
hospitals, recruiting and training over 200 new staff, launching IT access and introducing the first fully-
digital version of Terminal 2, while improving all the key operating parameters, is a remarkable
achievement. The progress achieved in Holland and the US is equally noteworthy. The Board would
like to express its deep appreciation of the contribution made by staff throughout the Company.
As was announced on 27 May 2004, Phil Dennis will be joining the Board in September as our new
Finance Director. He succeeds Peter Coleridge who has seen the Company through some three years of
its most significant developments. We thank him and wish him well for the future.
Two of our non-executive directors have informed the Board that they will be retiring from the Board
within the next year, following the appointment of suitable replacements. Colin Alton, who founded
Patientline in 1993, has been a director for over ten years. Nicholas Turner joined the board in 1999,
initially as the appointee of HgCapital, the provider of private equity finance to the Company prior to
its flotation. The Board has commenced a process to identify and appoint two new non-executive
directors.
The Board has further improved its governance processes during the year, building on the previous
establishment of a Nominations Committee and the appointment of a full time company secretary.
Although the two non-executives who will be retiring do not technically comply with the requirements
for independence, they have in practice given advice that is both effective and wholly independent.
The presence of four strong non-executive directors provides an excellent balance to the three
executive members of the Board.
Dividend
For the foreseeable future, we believe the cash generated by the Group's operations will be best used
to fund the continued expansion of its businesses. This policy is kept under review and it remains a key
objective of the Board to move the Company to a position where it can commence the payment of
dividends.
Current Trading and Prospects
Patientline has a strong pipeline of contracts in the UK and intends to maintain a high rate of new
installations during the current year. Together with the strength of our business in Holland, the
progress being made in enhancing operating performance, the addition of services to boost revenues
and the tapping of new markets, this gives the Board continuing confidence in the future.
Derek Lewis
Chairman
23 June 2004