 We have a clear 
strategy, a talented 
team and a proud 
record of performance. 
o nce again, that was 
rewarded with good 
returns for shareholders.
d ear shareholder,
Welcome to our report to you for 2010. 
It was another challenging year for your company. 
The global economy did begin to crawl out of 
recession, but governments, businesses and 
consumers continued to suffer the aftershocks of 
the financial crisis. Confidence was in short supply, 
and my own guess is that it's likely to remain that way 
for some time.
But once again, Pearson rose to the challenge. As you'll 
have seen, your company posted operating profit and 
earnings growth of 15% and 19% respectively. Beneath 
those numbers for all of Pearson stand excellent 
results in all parts - Penguin, the Financial Times 
Group and our education company. For that, all 
our talented people deserve every credit.
On two especially important performance measures 
- operating cash flow and return on capital - we hit 
all-time highs of  1.06bn and 10.3% respectively. 
And much more important than any single year, 
this continues a trend of consistent, reliable growth 
through good times and bad. Over the past five years, 
our profits, earnings per share and free cash flow have 
all doubled.
Once again, that strong operational performance was 
rewarded with good returns for shareholders. After a 
substantial increase of almost 40% in 2009 our shares 
began 2010 at 891p. They ended the year 13% higher, 
just above ten pounds. That growth was a little faster 
than the overall market (the FTSE 100 was up 9%) but 
a little slower than our sector as advertising-funded 
companies that had been hit hard during the recession 
enjoyed a sharp recovery (the DJ Stoxx 600 Media 
index was up 13% and the FTSE All-Share Media 
index 21%).
The second element of our return to shareholders - 
the dividend - was further increased in 2010. So our 
total shareholder return (which combines both the 
share price movement and dividends paid) was up 17% 
for the year - this coming on top of a gain of close to 
50% in 2009. Again, this was ahead of the FTSE 100 (up 
13%), but behind the DJ Stoxx 600 Media (up 18%) and 
the FTSE media sector (up 25%).
g len moreno c hairman
c hairman's statement
pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 06 fI nanc Ial statements g overnance Introduct Ion o ur strategy o ur performance o ur Impact on soc Iety
we all read, learn and communicate - are snowballing. 
These twin forces - technology and globalisation - 
have been the dominant trends throughout my 
business career and Pearson's strategies, opportunities 
and risks are to a very great extent shaped by them. 
As reliable as our growth has been, we cannot take it 
for granted; as Marjorie writes in her strategy review, 
we have to keep on investing and changing.
These are the strategic matters that consume the 
attention of our people and the board. Your board 
believes it can contribute most to Pearson's success 
by focusing on four key themes: governance, strategy, 
business performance and people. Our annual board 
cycle and meeting agendas are formally structured 
around these things.
g overnance
As a board, our belief is that good governance 
supports the long-term development of strategy 
and good performance. We are determined not to 
second-guess a highly experienced and effective 
executive management team; but we do believe that 
robust, open board debate brings a discipline to 
important decisions and adds a valuable and diverse 
set of external perspectives.
We're fortunate to have a varied group of non-
executive directors drawn from successful businesses 
and education institutions with deep experience of 
global corporate strategy, education, consumer 
marketing and technology. Terry Burns's decision 
to depart from the board last year, soon followed 
by the untimely death of CK Prahalad, left us with 
an unexpected imbalance between executive and 
non-executive directors. We have addressed this 
with the recent appointment of Josh Lewis as a 
non-executive director. We believe Josh will make 
an excellent addition to our board. We are currently 
looking to make one further non-executive 
director appointment. 
So, there is much to be proud of and I convey my 
thanks and congratulations to everyone at Pearson. 
But we cannot look back: our markets are filled with 
change and we have much to be cautious about. 
The economic recovery is not assured and in many 
parts of the world debt - both public and private - 
remains a heavy burden. At the same time, the 
disruptive transformations that have been reshaping 
Pearson for some time - slower growth in our 
traditional markets set against rapid expansion in the 
so-called  developing' world; and the revolutionary 
impact of connected digital technologies on the way 
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE - 1 YEAR % CHANGE
01.01.10 - 31.12.10
Pearson  13.1%
FTSE 100  9.0%
FTSE All-Share Media  21.1%
Stoxx Europe 600 Media E  13.3%
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE - 3 YEAR % CHANGE
01.01.08 - 31.12.10
Pearson  37.7%
FTSE 100
FTSE All-Share Media  2.7%
Stoxx Europe 600 Media E
-8.6%
-20.2%
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN - 1 YEAR % CHANGE
01.01.10 - 31.12.10
Pearson  17.3%
FTSE 100  12.6%
FTSE All-Share Media  24.7%
Stoxx Europe 600 Media E  18.0%
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN - 3 YEAR % CHANGE
01.01.08 - 31.12.10
Pearson  57.3%
FTSE 100  2.8%
FTSE All-Share Media  13.9%
Stoxx Europe 600 Media
Source: Datastream as at 31 December 2010
- 8.9%
section 1 Introduction 07 35%
15%
11%
1999 
OPERATING PROFIT
 449m (UK GAAP)
14%
25%
Education
FT Group
Penguin
TV
Lazard
81%
12%
7%
2010 
OPERATING PROFIT
 857m (IFRS)
North American Education
International Education
Professional
FT Group
Penguin
c Hange at pearson
o per at Ing prof It 
I am convinced that this steady reallocation of 
resources into learning companies that are heavily 
oriented towards developing markets and new 
technologies is an excellent strategy for Pearson 
to pursue. Our return on capital from all acquired 
companies from 2002-2010 is 12%, well above our 
average cost of capital. 
Business performance
At the start of each year, in addition to reviewing 
long-term strategic plans, the board debates and 
agrees a stretching-but-realistic one-year operating 
plan. It focuses on a balanced mix of financial goals 
- sales growth, margins, earnings, cash and working 
capital reduction - which are intended to contribute 
to the long-term financial goals of the company, to align 
executive compensation with shareholders' interests 
and to avoid an excessive focus on any single financial 
measure. These targets in turn form the basis of our 
expectations for the year and for executive 
compensation. At every board meeting, we hear from 
the company's chief financial officer and executive 
directors on the company's business performance 
relative to plan.
This past year, in monitoring business performance the 
board has paid particularly close attention to risk 
management. You can read our full discussion of the 
material risks affecting the company from page 35; they 
are dominated by risks related to a prolonged period 
of low economic growth and the transformational shift 
towards digital delivery and business models.
strategy
At each board meeting your board reviews the 
detailed strategy and long-term plans for one or more 
of our businesses. Once a year, at a specific two-day 
meeting, the board considers Pearson's overall 
strategy. We analyse in detail the market conditions 
and trends facing us, and consider the long-term goals 
and plans of all parts of Pearson. We have an open and 
robust debate over major strategic issues such as the 
shape of the company, the potential value to be 
created by further acquisitions and disposals, and the 
priorities for capital allocation and organic investment. 
Marjorie's letter to shareholders, which begins on 
page 10, is as always an excellent summary of our 
strategic direction.
As I wrote in my letter to shareholders last year, 
Pearson is a company that has totally transformed itself 
over the past decade. Yet even by our standards, 2010 
was a year of dramatic change. As a board we debated 
and approved Pearson's largest disposal ever: the 
$2.0bn sale of our stake in Interactive Data to Silver 
Lake and Warburg Pincus. We looked at all the 
acquisitions that the company made during the year 
- including significant investments to expand our 
position in fast-growing developing markets such as 
Brazil, India and Africa. And we also, as a matter of 
routine, revisited acquisitions made in prior years to 
assess their performance against the plans originally 
laid out for them. In 2010, in addition to reviewing 
returns and lessons learned from capital allocation 
decisions over the past seven or so years, 
we conducted detailed post-acquisition reviews 
of acquisitions completed during 2008.
c hairman's statement continued
pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 08 fI nanc Ial statements g overnance Introduct Ion o ur strategy o ur performance o ur Impact on soc Iety
In 2010, in addition to my Pearson responsibilities, 
I took on a new role as deputy chairman of the 
Financial Reporting Council, the UK's independent 
regulator responsible for promoting high quality 
corporate governance and reporting. In that capacity 
I have become even more aware of the desire of 
shareholders, large and small, to understand how 
boards are spending their time and how they are 
ensuring that key decisions around investment, 
performance and compensation are closely connected 
to strategy.
I do hope that this report helps provide you with that 
understanding in relation to Pearson. We have a clear 
strategy, a focused board, a talented team and a proud 
record of performance. We will be straining every 
sinew to continue to build on all those strengths 
in 2011.
If you have any questions, I invite you to send them to 
us via our website at www.pearson.com; or to join us 
in person at our annual shareholders' meeting. 
g len moreno c hairman
people
Your board is keenly aware that a creative business like 
Pearson is acutely dependent on its internal talent - 
not just of a small group of senior directors, but of a 
wide pool of writers, editors, educators, publishers, 
technologists, marketers and sales experts. 
Each year we devote one full board meeting to talent, 
succession planning and organisational structure. 
We look in detail at the 20 most senior jobs in 
Pearson, ensuring that there are several credible 
candidates for each role, that they are well known by 
the board and that we have development plans in place 
to round out their experience and skills and to give 
them every possible chance of progressing their 
careers at Pearson. 
In addition, in 2010 the board reviewed the goals and 
plans of Pearson's new director for people, Robin 
Baliszewski. And the remuneration committee, as 
always, played the pivotal role in setting overall 
compensation policy, senior executive reward and 
incentive targets across the company aligned to our 
strategy and performance. You can read the full report 
of our remuneration committee from page 63.
section 1 Introduction 09