 Chairman's review
The Group completed a very successful year on 31 March 2009 and our
Preliminary Statement of 2 June 2009 detailed substantial growth of Revenue,
Operating Margin, Earnings per Share and Net Cash. Five weeks after the
Preliminary Statement we announced on 29 June 2009 the acquisition of the
Barkers Group (Barkers ), a very significant and positive move which brings
changes to the relative scale of our key business streams and positions the
Group for further expansion.
Recognising the importance of the Barkers acquisition, this Report first
discusses Penna's results for year ended 31 March 2009, then details the
Barkers acquisition and finally outlines the New Shape of Penna, outlining the
range of services of each of our newly restructured Divisions.
Results for 2008/9
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2009 was up 30% to  63.2m (2008:
 48.6m). Operating expenses were controlled well and our operating margin
more than doubled from 4.5% to 9.3% producing profits before taxation up
176% to  6.0m (2008:  2.2m) and fully diluted earnings per share of 17.1p
(2008: 6.0p).
Penna's businesses continued to be highly cash generative and our balance
sheet at year end was strong with cash of  8.9m (2008:  3.0m), no bank debt
and loan facilities established in 2007 remaining undrawn.
In light of these excellent results the Board is pleased to recommend a final
dividend of 4p per share making a total dividend for the year of 6p (2008: 2p).
The proposed final dividend will be payable on 27 October 2009 to
shareholders on the register on 18 September 2009.
Operations
Revenues % of Total Year to Year to Year on year
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 % Growth
Resourcing 44%  27.5m  22.9m +20%
Executive Search
Resourcing Solutions
Executive Interim Management
Recruitment Marketing 
and Communications
Career Transition 43%  27.2m  18.0m +51%
Outplacement Services
Consulting 13%  8.5m  7.6m +12%
Organisational Design
Executive Coaching
Assessment Programmes
Total revenue 100%  63.2m  48.5m +30%
Resourcing has performed very well in a difficult market when many
competitors have experienced declines in demand and margins. A significant
contributor to growth has been our emergence as a leading provider of
recruitment solutions for large organisations requiring an integrated approach
to setting up or relocating a major unit.
We have the in-house capability to provide recruitment advertising and internet
sites to attract the best talent, response handling systems to effectively deal
with high volumes of applications, assessment centres to test and select the
right applicants, induction programmes to introduce the recruits to their new
environment and project management to ensure that the whole process is
completed with the highest quality of service and with achievement of all 
time and cost targets.
Our Interim Management team has continued its impressive growth and we
believe we are the UK's second largest provider of temporary managers.
Career Transition has continued to grow rapidly. We are the UK's largest
provider of outplacement services to the private sector and our market share
grew from 26% in 2006 to 34% during 2008 (published data from the
Association of Career Firms). Penna serves a majority of the country's largest
financial, commercial and industrial companies and many public sector
organisations. Many of our clients have embarked on long term restructuring
programmes that will take some years to implement. Forward commitments 
and work in progress are at record levels.
Our Consulting activities provide advice and support to organisations and
executives as they manage changes in their businesses. Our services include
organisational design, individual coaching for Executives and the design and
implementation of assessment programmes to ensure organisations make the
best recruitment decisions and continually identify and develop talent within
the workforce. Revenues in 2009 grew by 12% to  8.5m. 
Barkers acquisition
On 29 June 2009 we announced that we had completed the acquisition of 
The Barkers Group for cash consideration of  8.6 million.
Charles Barker founded Barkers in 1812 thus creating the world's first
advertising agency. For nearly 200 years Barkers has played a leading part in
the development of advertising and has recently been among the first to
embrace recruitment marketing through digital media. Barkers primary focus is
recruitment marketing and communications and is the UK's largest recruitment
advertising agency. The great majority of Barkers revenue comes from long 
term contracts with its clients and is divided equally between the Public and
Private sectors.
In 2004 Barkers acquired TCS Recruitment Limited and has successfully
operated this business as a separate niche brand since that time.
The total UK market for recruitment marketing is estimated to be around 
 1.6 billion and we are very pleased to have acquired the clear industry leader.
In addition to its digital and print recruitment advertising business streams,
Barkers has built an important position in the rapidly growing business of
Resourcing Solutions. This business is similar to, but significantly larger than, 
the Penna Recruitment Projects unit which we have been pleased to see grow
profitably in recent years.
The opportunity to purchase Barkers arose because its parent company 
BNB Recruitment Solutions Plc (BNB) had excessive debt and a number 
of onerous leases. 
Barkers itself, however, has shown considerable resilience and in the difficult
year of 2008 had turnover of  125.5m, an average of 440 employees, and
EBITDA of  2.4m.
During 2008 and into the first half of 2009 the recession led to a considerable
reduction in recruitment activity and thus in recruitment advertising revenue.
Barkers had to respond by reducing its workforce and at the date of our
acquisition there were 242 employees.
Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2009
2 Chairman's review Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2009
Chairman's review   3
Barkers UK locations exactly match existing Penna offices and there is
considerable scope for space and administrative savings in the regions as
offices are merged.
I am very pleased to say that in the first six weeks following the acquisition
there have been no significant losses of clients and indeed we are delighted
that there have been a number of new client wins. However, the recession
continues and expenditure per client is inevitably at reduced levels. For planning
purposes we are therefore assuming that Barkers current turnover will be
reduced from the 2008 level by a similar percentage as the 42% reduction 
in employee numbers.
Penna's cash position allowed us to move quickly and decisively when the
opportunity to acquire Barkers presented itself.  We continue to believe that 
a strong and liquid balance sheet is of great importance in today's trading
environment. We intend to recover a considerable proportion of the cash
consideration paid for Barkers through the management of working capital 
and I am therefore particularly pleased to note that on Friday 7 August 2009
our cash balance was  4.9m.
The New Shape of Penna
Following Penna's acquisition of Barkers we have organised the enlarged Group
into four business groups.
Penna Creative Communications has merged with the Barkers Recruitment
Advertising teams (Barkers and TCS) to form Penna Recruitment Marketing
and Communications which trade as Penna Barkers and Penna TCS.
Penna's Recruitment Projects team has merged with the Barkers Resourcing
Group to form Penna Resourcing Solutions.
Penna's Executive Interim Management and Executive Search and Selection
teams will merge  together and become Penna Executive Recruitment 
and Interim.
Penna's Career Transition, HR Consulting and Executive Coaching teams will
merge to become Penna HR Consulting.
Because of the significant recent change in the number of Barker's employees 
it is only possible to give very broad indications of the scale of each of the four
Divisions. It is, however, very clear that each of them will have formidable
market presence.
Penna Recruitment Marketing and Communications (c.35% of Penna
turnover) is the UK's largest Recruitment Advertising Agency.
Penna Resourcing Solutions (c.10%) is one of the UK's three leading
integrated recruitment project managers.
Penna Executive Recruitment and Interim (c.20%) is a leading Public
Sector Executive Search consultancy and its Executive Interim Management
team is the second largest in the UK.
Penna HR Consulting (c.35%) is a leader in Organisation Design, Executive
Coaching and Leadership development and is the UK's largest Private Sector
Career Transition consultancy.
Outlook
Penna provides its clients with a broad range of human resource services
focussed on the management of change within large organisations. All of 
our Penna business streams produced profitable growth in 2008/9 and the
acquisition of Barkers brings a significant increase in the scale of the Group 
and leadership of the recruitment advertising market.
I was pleased to report in our Preliminary Statement that the new financial 
year started well and that we have a high level of work in progress. 
We expect to achieve continuing growth and intend to maintain a progressive
dividend policy.
 
Stephen Rowlinson
Chairman
14 August 2009