 Results for the year to December 2004 were in line with expectations as revised at the time of my Interim
Statement. The first half held up well despite delays, outside the Group's control, in programmes and 
contract awards but these had an impact upon the second half and will continue to affect the first half of
the current year. I am pleased, however, to report that the rescheduling of programmes and an increase
in contract awards since the year end should see an improvement in the second half with the Group
achieving expectations for 2005 as a whole.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND
Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation was  103,283 (2003:  711,498) after restructuring costs
of  130,689.
As expected, there has been an outflow of cash of  1,150,565 that has resulted from the repayment of
 505,830 of loans ahead of schedule, and the unwinding of upfront contract payments received at the
end of 2003. Net debt was  358,281 (2003: net cash  140,361). Gearing is 9.6% (2003: nil).
Basic earnings per share are 0.32p (2003: 2.08p).
Your Board is recommending a final cash dividend of 0.27p per share (2003: 0.4p) that, together with the
interim dividend of 0.13p, gives a total dividend for the year of 0.4p (2003: 0.4p). The final dividend will be
paid on 27 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 May 2005. The shares
are expected to go ex dividend on 4 May 2005.
The cash dividend reflects your Board's confidence in the future having regard to improved trading and
current prospects.
BOARD AND STRATEGY
As set out in my Interim Statement, Christopher Snook stepped up to assume the appointment of Chief
Executive with effect from 1 January 2005, taking over from Joe Thompson who has been retained as a
consultant until 31 December 2006. Your Board has continued to review strategy in order to improve
profitability and shareholder value. The focus is to concentrate on the core strengths of each of 
the Group's businesses, to identify new markets appropriate for those core strengths and to build on the
good established relationships with existing customers by gaining a better understanding of their requirements.
We are also structuring operations in order to continue to achieve the efficiency and quality 
necessary to meet customers' expectations. It is clear that the major prime contractors are looking for
longer term relationships with a smaller number of preferred suppliers and the Group's businesses have
been working to maximise opportunities here.
CURRENT TRADING AND OPERATIONS
Pennant Training Systems is a provider of market-leading training solutions for the defence, aviation
and industrial markets. Its products, which are well respected by the market, include simulation training
systems, computer based training and emulation.
Pennant Training Systems has experienced a high level of tendering activity and has reached the final stages
of selection, either in its own right or in conjunction with prime contractors, for significant programmes that
are maturing in the short to medium term or are already funded and running. It is building relationships for
the longer term with PFI (Private Finance Initiative) contractors with a view to securing future revenue
streams. Also, there is considerable interest shown in overseas markets for existing Pennant products.
00I01
Chairman's Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2004 The MOD enabling contract that generates significant income from the provision of support to the many
Pennant Training devices throughout the UK has been extended for a year to April 2006, with an option
for a further two one-year extensions. A number of upgrades to existing equipment have been carried
out in 2004 under this contract.
Two major training devices were successfully delivered, on time and to budget, to Westland Helicopters
Ltd in support of its Lynx 300 programme. The devices were well received by both Westland and the 
ultimate customer.
The largest single project running during the year was the BAE SYSTEMS Hawk Lead-in Fighter Trainer
programme for The South African Air Force; the production phase is in progress and runs into the first half
of 2006. Additional work to bring the training material up to the final technical standard of the aircraft is
expected later this year.
The company has continued to provide support, through a BAE SYSTEMS contract, to the Royal
Australian Air Force. This contract runs until the middle of 2006 and negotiations have already begun for
an extension of a further 5 years.
Technical Data Services is a major supplier of technical documentation, support products and information
systems. Its capabilities cover e-learning, technical authoring, graphics design, technical manuals, interactive
electronic technical manuals, SGML/XML and internet/intranet publishing and on-site data services.
Technical Data Services benefits from a number of enabling and framework agreements with the MOD,
other Government bodies and major contractors that generate a significant and continuing revenue stream.
The MOD contracts have been extended to March 2007 with an option to extend for a further 2 years. 
New customers have been won, particularly in the Rail sector, with significant orders for technical manuals
and training from Kawasaki in USA and Japan and from Interfleet Technology Limited in the UK. Work has
also been carried out for BT in both the telecommunications and IT arenas and e-learning products 
have been developed for the Department of Work and Pensions. There is significant additional business 
potential from these customers. 
New Joint Venture -Pennant Sonovision ITEP Limited
This 50:50 joint venture company was set up in February 2005 as a logical progression to the teaming
agreement signed between Pennant and Sonovision-ITEP SAS in 2003 and in response to the requirements
of European projects in the aerospace and defence sectors involving French and UK companies. It will 
initially concentrate on providing technical data services for programmes for Airbus aircraft, including A380,
A400M and A350. The Joint Venture Company will be based in Filton, Bristol the UK headquarters of Airbus
Software Services
Pennant's OmegaPS product is a world leading supportability engineering software suite that is widely
used by defence forces and defence contractors around the world.
In Australia, the product has been developed for the Australian Defence Organisation in a programme
running through 2003 and 2004. The product was accepted in March 2005 and is due to be rolled out
across Australian Defence Force establishments later in the year. Pennant has a support contract to
assist the introduction and implementation generating revenues through until 2009.
PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman's Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2004 In Canada, Pennant provides consultancy services to the Canadian Department of National Defence
(DND), first to support the ten year rollout of a SAP R/3 management system, that includes OmegaPS, to
the three branches of the armed forces and, secondly to support the use of OmegaPS throughout the
DND.
In addition Software Services has a significant annual maintenance income from support contracts for the
OmegaPS applications in use by contractors and government departments in many countries.
These revenue streams are augmented by new licence sales to new and existing customers. In 2004
sales were made to, among others, Northrop Grumman in USA, Blohm & Voss in Germany, Mercedes
Benz in Canada and BAE SYSTEMS in Australia.
PROSPECTS
As outlined above Pennant Training Systems, in particular, has a pipeline of significant opportunities. These
have to be won and are subject to competition and to schedules that may be changed, but they are well
advanced in the procurement cycle and are expected to mature in the short to medium term. A number
of these opportunities are with existing customers with whom we have good relationships and to whom
we have previously demonstrated our ability to deliver a reliable product on time and to budget.
The Technical Data Services business has opportunities to develop follow-on potential with its substantial
new customers. Also, there are major opportunities with existing customers such as BAESYSTEMS and
General Dynamics. The new joint venture company is expected to contribute as it builds its relationships
with Airbus and other customers.
Software Services has a number of potential product sales to build on its firm base of consultancy and
maintenance revenues.
CONCLUSION
2004 was a tough year and business will continue to be tough and competitive. Nevertheless, the Group
has a clear strategy and high quality committed staff. The Group's businesses are positioned to take
advantage of opportunities as they arise. Order intake in 2005 has started well with some good contract
wins in the first quarter that underpin the second half of 2005 running into 2006. Also, there are significant
real prospects in the pipeline following major programme wins by our largest customers. These factors
give your Board confidence for progress in the future.
Finally, my sincere thanks to my colleagues and all employees for their sterling efforts and to Joe
Thompson for his valuable contribution to the Group.
Christopher Powell
Chairman
15 April 2005
02I03