 I am pleased to report a return to profitability and a year of significant cash generation that has enabled us to pay a dividend of 1p per
share.
All segments of the business have been profitable and cash generative. Tender activity has been high particularly in the defence, rail
and power sectors.
Considerable effort has been expended building relationships with existing and potential customers which is paying off as our reputation
grows and our pipeline of prospects increases. The wide range of prospects together with their broad geographical spread will help
mitigate the inevitable effect of budget restraints, particularly in the defence market, on the funding and timing of orders.
Results
Revenue for the year was  9.5 million (2008:  9.8million). Gross margin increased significantly to 39.1% (2008: 34.8%) and administrative
expenses reduced by 12% as the result of restructuring. Earnings were  293,000 (2008: loss  481,000) and basic earnings per share
were 1.00p (2008: loss per share 1.57p).
Cash generation from operations was strong at  962,000 (2008: cash used  575,000). Cash balances at the end of the year were
 1.28 million (2008: 0.6 million) and net funds stood at  846,000 (2008: net debt  23,000).
An interim dividend of 1p per share was paid on 19 March 2010.
About Pennant
The Group offers a range of services that extends across computer based training and emulation, virtual reality, simulation, technical
documentation, media production and supportability engineering software.
For management and accounting purposes the Group is run as three operating divisions each of which is a significant contributor to
the Group's overall results.
Proportion of 2009 Group revenues
Training Systems 42%
Data Services 26%
Software Services 32%
The Group operates principally in the defence market but has a growing presence, mainly through the Data Services division, in the
rail transport and power generation markets and UK Government departments.
Training Systems
Training Systems division was profitable and strongly cash generative as stage payments were achieved. Tender activity was high and
the pipeline of prospects increased significantly providing considerable opportunity for growth.
The division operates principally in the defence market and revenues relate to the design, manufacture and delivery of simulation and
computer-based training products for defence projects including new platforms (e.g. aircraft, ships, fighting vehicles etc) and updates
to existing platforms. Revenues are underpinned by ongoing contracts for the support and modification of equipment in service.
Chairman's Statement and Business Review
1
PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairman's Statement and Business Review continued
2
PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
There is a continuing move towards the use of synthetic training products. The cost of using real equipment for training is high whilst in
practice it is inefficient and has significant health and safety implications. Simulation based training provides a more cost-effective,
flexible, focussed and safe alternative. With continuing pressure on global defence budgets we expect the use of synthetic training products
to continue to increase as governments, defence forces and other operators of complex assets look for value-for-money solutions.
Major contracts for new platforms and the update of existing platforms are normally awarded by defence authorities around the world
to the original equipment manufacturers and/or major prime contractors ( primes') who in-turn subcontract the provision of training
devices related to those platforms to specialist subcontractors.
Our strategy in this market has three main thrusts:
  to enhance and extend our working relationships and reputation with the OEM's and primes so that we become the partner of choice;
  to extend our reach, both in the UK and worldwide, into each of the defence naval, land systems and air sectors;
  to increase the number of support contracts providing on-going revenue streams.
This strategy has shown considerable success producing a number of short and medium-term opportunities. In addition there are 
significant potential extensions to current contracts.
UK primes often  package' our services when tendering for the sale of platforms world wide and we have positioned ourselves, through
a memorandum of understanding with a Saudi Arabian company, to benefit from the major defence spending planned in the Middle
East.
Recent highlights include:
  Contracts from the Flight Simulation and Synthetic Trainers Project Team of the MOD for:
  8 Virtual Reality Parachute Trainers for the Parachute Training School at RAF Brize Norton;
  the update of computer-based courseware for the Sea King helicopter for RNAS Culdrose;
  the update of computer-based courseware for the Jaguar aircraft for DCAE Cosford;
  modifications to a number of hardware/simulation based trainers.
  Successful completion to schedule and within budget of the Type 45 Destroyer Warfare Package for the Royal Navy. Pennant 
produced a range of training media objects and 3D rotational models for the Electro-Optical Gun Control System, the Combat 
Management System and the Link 11 Communication System.
  Continued development of highly interactive computer-based training for the command systems of the Royal Navy Type 23 frigates 
and Type 45 destroyers as part of the Maritime Composite Training System.
  Successful delivery of enhancements to the Synthetic Environment Procedural Trainer at DCAE Cosford. These enhancements 
allow Army students to practice their aircraft marshalling skills in complete safety without the high cost of using real aircraft.
  Continuing development of computer-based training and emulation products in support of BAE Systems delivery of Hawk Aircraft 
to two major customers.
  Ongoing support contracts with MOD supporting over 120 aircraft related training devices, BAE Systems Australia supporting 
Hawk jet training and British Energy.
  Completion of a computer 3-D model of the Lynx Wildcat helicopter for Westland. Data Services
The Data Services division covers a range of products including high quality media production, graphics, virtual reality and technical
documentation. It operates principally in the defence, rail, power, oil and gas and Government sectors.
The division returned to profitability and was cash generative in 2009 following the completion of the rationalisation that was begun
in 2008. The management is now based in new premises in Manchester and significant cost savings have been achieved.
Recent activities and achievements include:
  Strong tendering activity in both the rail and power sectors worldwide creating a strong pipeline of opportunities.
  A new enabling contract with Network Rail. Tasks completed under this contract include a set of DVDs for training track and 
maintenance staff, emulation of signalling scenarios for competency testing and web-deliverable multi media projects for briefing 
senior management on accidents and incidents on the rail network.
  Satisfactory completion, in a short timescale, of a major contract with ALSTOM Power in Switzerland for technical documentation 
for the auxiliary systems of a gas-powered turbine.
  Successful delivery to HMRC of the Employer CD ROM for 2010. This is distributed to all employers who operate PAYE. This contract 
has now run for two years and it is expected that the option for a third year will be taken up.
  Continuing work with each of Kawasaki and Siemens for operator and maintainer manuals and training on rail projects.
Software Services
Pennant owns the OmegaPS suite of software which is used to reduce the support cost of major capital equipment. It is continually
updated to keep in line with current practice and standards and has obvious relevance in the current period when defence budgets
are stretched.
The division, which operates in the defence and aerospace markets, is profitable and cash generative. Revenues accrue from the sale
of software licences, related annual support contracts and consultancy services. Work is continuing successfully on the major 
consultancy agreement with the Canadian DND that was won in April 2009 and has the potential to run until March 2014 and realise
total revenues of C$15 million. In addition there are a further two years to run on the three year A$1.0million software support 
contract with the Australian Defence Organisation.
OmegaPS has an impressive customer list. The software is used by a growing number of major defence and aerospace contractors
worldwide including BAE Systems, Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Agusta Westland, Thales, VT Group, Eurocopter, and
Man-Erf. It is also used extensively by the Canadian and Australian defence authorities.
Recent new licence sales have been made to Vitrociset for the Galileo Project (an entry to the space market) Boeing Australia,
Lockheed Martin in Canada and the Shenyang Aircraft Design and Research Institute in China.
Joint Venture
The joint venture with Sonovision SAS ceased trading by agreement on 31 October 2009. Since this date Pennant's Data Services 
division has continued to work profitably as a subcontractor to Sonovision on technical documentation projects for Airbus.
3
PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 People
Our business depends on the commitment and high skill levels of our staff and I am pleased to take this opportunity to thank them
for their major contribution to a successful year.
Outlook
We expect there will be continuing pressure on defence budgets that will determine which programmes are funded and, in particular,
affect the timing of orders. However, we consider that it will also reinforce the move towards the use of simulation and computer
based training products as a cost effective solution.
We are well positioned on a wide range of programmes involving fighter and transport aircraft, helicopters, destroyers, fighting vehicles,
rail transport and power generation. These platforms have long programme lives ahead of them that will drive opportunities in the
future. In addition the business is underpinned by a number of ongoing revenue streams from equipment support contracts, software
maintenance contracts and consultancy agreements.
The balance sheet is strong and your board is confident for the future.
C C Powell
Chairman
26 March 2010
Chairman's Statement and Business Review continued
4
PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009