 PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC 
Page 2 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW. 
 
 
 
I am pleased to report a year of solid progress with further improved profitability and cash generation. 
The order book is strong and will provide work well into 2013. There has been a high level of tendering 
in support of both UK and export opportunities. 
 
Results and dividend 
 
Revenue for the year grew by 8.2% to  10.35 million (2010:  9.57 million). Operating profit increased 
by 30% to  707,000 being 6.8% of revenue (2010:  542,000 and 5.7% of revenue). 
 
Basic earnings per share are 1.99p (2010: 2.01p).The recognition, for the first time, of tax losses as a 
deferred tax asset in the annual accounts to 31 December 2010 resulted in a tax credit of  35,000 in 2010 
and a full tax charge for 2011 of  146,000. The effect of this has been reflected in the basic earnings per 
share. If 2010 figures are amended to reflect a comparable full tax charge the basic earnings per share for 
that year were 1.36p. 
 
Cash generated from operations was  2.2 million (2010:  0.96 million). The Group's bank borrowings 
were repaid in full leaving the Group with net funds of  2.33 million at the year end (2010:  1.16 
million). 
 
Your Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 1p per share (2010: 1p). Subject to approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 4 May 2012. The shares are expected to go ex-dividend on 2 May 2012. 
 
Strategy 
 
The nature of the markets in which the Group operates requires a strategy that looks to the medium term 
and beyond. A consistent and increasingly successful approach has been adopted over a number of years 
and has resulted in improved shareholder value. This strategy has concentrated on achieving organic 
growth by improving our reputation with existing customers, building relationships with new customers, 
pursuing opportunities into closely related business sectors and ensuring that our products and services 
remain good value for money and in line with current technology and standards. The Board believes that 
there continues to be significant opportunity for growth throughout the Group and, in particular, in the 
Training Systems Division. 
 
Current trading 
 
The Group is managed as three operating divisions which are covered separately below.  
 
Training Systems Division 
The Training Systems Division provides and supports specialist training systems based on software 
emulation, hardware simulation, virtual reality and computer based training for engineers principally in 
the defence arena. The division provided 52% of the Group's revenue in 2011 (2010: 45%) and was 
profitable and cash generative. Based on its current order book and high tendering activity arising from 
an increasing level of enquiries, your board believes that it has strong potential for growth in the medium 
term.   PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC 
Page 3 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued). 
 
As military acquire new equipment with increasingly sophisticated technology there is a continuing need 
to lift the skill base for operating and maintaining that equipment. The cost of training using real military 
equipment is often prohibitive leading budget-conscious operators to seek simulation based training aids. 
This process is accelerating as computer and modelling technologies continue to improve making training 
aids more capable.  
 
The current order book relates largely to UK defence projects and there continue to be some new 
opportunities from this source despite the budget constraints. However, increasingly enquiries are 
originating from regions with growing defence budgets, such as Asia and the Middle East; mainly these 
come through UK prime contractors who are competing to sell defence platforms in those markets. 
Inevitably these opportunities have long gestation periods making the timing of order placement difficult 
to forecast. 
 
The major contract in progress with AgustaWestland for development of Maintenance Training 
Equipment for the AW159 Lynx Wildcat helicopter has increased in scope and now has a value of  12 
million. Significant progress has been made with the recent achievement of the major milestone of 
Critical Design Review. Work on detailed design, manufacture and installation will continue throughout 
2012 and 2013. 
 
The division has a number of contracts with the UK Ministry of Defence ( MOD') for the support of 
some 200 training aids at MOD establishments throughout the UK. These contracts are due for renewal 
during 2012 and the MOD, as part of its review of costs, has made the decision to combine our contracts 
with a number of other similar contracts run by other contractors. The new combined contract is being 
competitively tendered. This is both a risk and a significant opportunity. 
 
The contract with the MOD for the support of training equipment for the Warrior armoured vehicle has 
been extended for another year to December 2012. 
 
Work has continued on the contract to supply electronic classrooms, computer based training and 
emulation to BAE Systems in support of an export sale of Hawk aircraft. There have been further 
increases in scope during the year and successful completion of the project is expected in the first half of 
2012. 
 
The contract with BAE Systems for the support of classrooms and training equipment for the Hawk Lead 
in Fighter for the Royal Australian Air Force has recently been extended to June 2013 and a number of 
separately priced upgrades have been completed. 
 
 
Data Services Division 
The Data Services Division provides a wide portfolio of product and services in support of technical 
products and skills. The services include the provision of high quality media, graphics, virtual reality and 
technical documentation principally to the defence, rail, power and government sectors. The division 
provided 17% of the Group's revenue in 2011 (2010: 20%) and was profitable. 
 
During the year the division has invested in developing its competence in the field of Virtual Reality 
where there is growing demand. It has worked with the Training Systems Division to win contracts for an 
upgrade to the capability of the Virtual Reality Parachute Trainer, previously supplied to RAF Brize 
Norton, and the supply of a new deployable version of that trainer. Both contracts are for the MOD and 
run through the first half of 2012.  
  PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC 
Page 4 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued). 
 
Work has continued successfully on the contract with a potential value in excess of $2 million to supply 
manuals, training material and training delivery in support of a major US programme for the supply of 
rail rolling stock. This work will run through 2012 with the training delivery extending into 2015. 
 
Other work in the rail sector has included projects for the UK Rail Safety and Standards Board, Network 
Rail and Siemens. Also, following increased sales effort in the Middle East, a new contract has been won 
with Serco Middle East Ltd on the Dubai Metro project.  
 
In the power sector a major contract has been awarded by ALSTOM Power in Switzerland to produce 
Operator and Maintenance Documentation for the auxiliary systems associated with the GT24 Gas 
Turbine.  
 
The division has a Professional Services Agreement with Capgemini UK PLC for substantial ongoing 
work developing the next generation of Basic PAYE Tools to support the introduction by Her Majesty's 
Revenue and Customs of Real Time Information into the PAYE process. 
 
Software Services Division 
The Software Services Division's market leading OmegaPS and Analyser software suites are sold 
worldwide and used by many major defence contractors and by the Defence Authorities in Canada and 
Australia to support complex long life assets. The division provided 31% of the Group's revenue in 2011 
(2010: 35%) and was profitable and cash generative. 
 
Capital projects for complex assets are assessed not only on the capital cost of the asset but principally on 
the through-life cost required to keep them in service. OmegaPS is used to optimise design and to plan 
and monitor through life support processes. Analyser allows users to carry out level of repair, spares 
requirement and life-cycle cost analyses. Use of these tools has helped customers make substantial 
savings to through-life costs. 
 
New licences are sold at an initial price together with associated annual maintenance agreements that 
provide an ongoing revenue stream. The software is continually improved in line with changing 
technology and industry standards and regular updates are issued to users. 
 
In Canada the software is used extensively and there is an on-going agreement with the Department of 
National Defence ( DND') for training, installation and specialist consultant support to maximise the use 
of OmegaPS within the DND. The contract has the potential to run for a further two years with a value in 
excess of C$6 million. The Australian Defence Organisation are also a significant user of the software 
and there is an ongoing support contract in place. 
 
Recent successes include: 
 
  a software and consultancy sale to a major US tactical vehicle supplier to support various 
Canadian DND vehicle procurement programmes; 
 
  an agreement, with options out to 2015, to provide consultancy services to Babcock Canada Inc. 
in support of Royal Canadian Navy projects and; 
 
  a new licence sale to a customer in Turkey.  PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC 
Page 5 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued). 
 
People 
The Group is fortunate to have a committed and skilled staff. They have coped well with the challenges 
of the business during the year, in particular the high level of tendering activity and I should like to take 
this opportunity to thank them for their considerable efforts. 
 
Outlook 
The Group has a strong cash position and balance sheet and the order book provides good visibility of 
revenues through 2012 and into 2013. Attention is now being concentrated on the medium term and 
major opportunities expected to generate revenues for 2013 and beyond. The Group's good relationships 
with equipment manufacturers and prime contractors and the consequent high level of tendering give 
your Board confidence for the future. 
 
 
C C Powell 
Chairman 
23 March 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 