 Dear shareholder
Our Group financial performance for the year has again 
been strong notwithstanding the challenging economic 
environment. 
 1,233.1m
+6.4%
 200.5m
+6.4%
Financial review
Group revenue rose by 6.4% to  1,233. 1 million and our profit 
before tax increased by 6.4% to  200.5 million. Our earnings 
per share before deferred tax increased by 1 1.8% to 47 .3p. 
The Group has substantial cash resources and undrawn facilities 
and is well positioned for the future.
South West Water's Regulatory Capital Value (RCV) grew by a 
further 4.6% during 201 1/12 to  2.83 billion. RCV has grown by an 
average of around 5% per annum since the beginning of the K4 
(2005-2010) period. Viridor's profit before tax at  57 .6 million was 
a reduction of 8.4% on the previous year. Around 50% of Viridor's 
profit contribution came from recovering the value in waste.
Dividend
The Board is committed to delivering consistent returns for our 
shareholders and to this end continues with its progressive 
dividend policy to grow the Group dividend by 4% above inflation 
per annum up to at least the end of 2014/15. This reflects our 
confidence that Pennon Group remains well positioned to deliver 
strong growth in the medium and long-term.
We are recommending a final dividend per share of 18.30p, which 
represents a 6.7% increase on last year's final dividend. This will 
result in a total dividend for the year of 26.52p, an increase of 
7 .6% (reflecting inflation of 3.6%) on the total dividend for 2010/1 1. 
We will also once again offer a Scrip Dividend Alternative to 
shareholders in respect of the final dividend. The timetable for the 
Scrip Dividend Alternative is given on page 1 13.
Business performance
South West Water continued its strong operational performance 
against the 2010-2015 regulatory contract with further advances in 
operating efficiency and customer service. The company is front-
end loading delivery of the operating cost efficiencies required by 
Ofwat (an average 2.8% per annum over the five-year period) with 
an average 5. 1% per annum delivered in the first two years. These 
efficiencies are being achieved through improving operational 
ways of working, right-sourcing and innovative contracting 
arrangements, energy procurement and reduced usage, and the 
rationalisation of administration and support services.
Viridor grew its profits from recycling, contracts and joint ventures, 
offset by a reduction in the contribution from landfill plus increased 
bid costs associated with its developing project pipeline. Recyclate 
prices fell in the second half of 201 1/12 compared with the first 
half year peak, reflecting world economic conditions. More than 
50% of the impact was mitigated by actions taken by Viridor to 
address costs and, although we are cautious about the prospect 
for a recovery in recyclate prices in the short-term, Viridor's 
growing Public Private Partnership (PPP) pipeline and energy 
from waste (EfW) planning successes will form the basis for future 
growth. Renewable energy generation will also remain a significant 
contributor to profits.
Directors' report - Business review
Chairman's statement
879.4
958.2
1,068.9
1,159.2
1,233.1
2007/08
2008/09
2009/10
2010/11
2011/12
152.3
159.4
185.8
188.5
200.5
2007/08
2008/09
2009/10
2010/11
2011/12
Ken Harvey
Chairman, Pennon Group Plc
Revenue 
 m
Profit before tax
 m
4 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Health and safety
We continue to focus on the safety and well-being of all our 
employees. There have been a number of initiatives during the 
year, such as our TAP (Think, Act, Prevent) behavioural safety 
campaign for Pennon and South West Water staff and Viridor's 
Safety Information Database, both of which are designed to 
ensure high standards of safety across the businesses. We are 
pleased to see a reduction in the reportable number of incidents 
within both South West Water and Viridor. The Board, together 
with the Boards of South West Water and Viridor, remains 
committed to fostering a culture and working environment where 
accidents are unacceptable. The Group's goal is zero accidents. 
Sustainability and governance
Our businesses demonstrate a responsible approach to 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. This was 
recognised when we received the prestigious  Achievement in 
Sustainability' award at the annual PLC Awards for our sustainable 
activities which include renewable energy generation at waste 
water treatment works, landfill gas control and significant funding 
being provided for community and environmental projects through 
the Pennon Environmental Fund and Viridor Credits Environmental 
Body. The Business review and our Group Sustainability report set 
out more fully our commitment to ESG and the highlights during 
the year which include carbon reduction, water security, water 
catchment management and resource security and efficiency. 
The Board has an annual programme which is focused on 
continuing to develop and improve our governance structures 
and practices. This ensures that we apply best practice to enable 
us to operate in the best interests of our shareholders and other 
stakeholders.
Our business model
One of our key objectives is to ensure that we are at the forefront 
of company reporting. Overleaf we have set out our business 
model to assist shareholders in understanding how we generate 
and preserve value in our businesses. I hope it is a useful 
introduction to this year's Business review and succinctly explains 
how our business strategy is followed through into action.
Diversity
The Board is committed to promoting equality and diversity and a 
culture that actively values difference and recognises that people 
from different backgrounds and experiences can bring valuable 
insights to the workplace at all levels and enhance the way we 
work. We have an established Workplace Policy which provides 
for equal opportunity and diversity throughout the Group. In 
support of this policy and of the recommendations of the Davies 
Review  Women on Boards' , the Board has also established 
a Boardroom Equality & Diversity Policy. We will endeavour to 
achieve a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board 
by 2015 (whilst maintaining our current 14% representation in the 
meantime) and achieve a minimum of 25% female representation 
in our senior management team by 2015.
Board succession
Two of our three Non-executive Directors are coming towards 
the end of their nine-year tenure. The Board wishes to ensure a 
seamless transition and does not wish to lose the considerable 
knowledge and experience of the departing Directors, particularly 
as it is satisfied that they remain independent in character and 
judgement while continuing in their role on the Board. It is therefore 
intended that Dinah Nichols will retire from the Board at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Gerard Connell, the Senior 
Independent Director, will retire from the Board at the 2014 AGM. 
The search for one new Non-executive Director is well under way 
and a further Non-executive Director will be sought during 2013. 
This process will ensure that the new members, of what is a small 
board, are fully acquainted with the Company's practices and 
procedures before the two retiring Non-executive Directors leave 
the Board.
Our customers
A key priority for both our businesses is providing the highest 
possible levels of services to our customers. This is also reflected 
in our Group strategy. 
Over the year South West Water has successfully moved into 
new territory in meeting the demand for information, advice 
and assistance from its household and business customers. 
The  Source for Business' service is providing extra support for 
commercial customers. South West Water is now providing online 
accounts, a smartphone app and web-based services for all 
customers. The company recognises that affordability is an issue 
for a number of our customers and we continue to provide advice 
and assistance through a number of schemes. 
Within Viridor there is a particular need to meet the changing 
requirements of our customers where the focus is increasingly on 
recycling, energy recovery and the reduction of waste to landfill to 
meet Government targets. The fact that around 50% of Viridor's 
profits are now from recovering the value in waste demonstrates 
that Viridor is living up to its new branding  transforming waste'.
Our employees
We know that our success continues to be due to the talent, 
commitment and hard work of our employees, and I would like 
to thank every one of them for their outstanding contribution to 
the Group.
In addition I am very grateful to my Board colleagues for their 
continuing support and significant contribution to another 
successful year.
Outlook
The Board's priority continues to be the creation of shareholder 
value through its strategic focus on water and sewerage services, 
recycling, renewable energy and waste management. 
South West Water has continued its excellent start to K5 with 
robust operational delivery, high standards of customer service 
and a strong financial performance.
Viridor is successfully leading the way in exploiting opportunities 
arising from the Government's landfill diversion, recycling and 
renewable energy targets - around 50% of its profits already come 
from recovering value in waste. Although we are cautious about 
the prospect for a recovery in recyclate prices in the short-term, 
the company's strong PPP pipeline and major EfW successes 
underpin its expected long-term profit momentum from 2013/14 
onwards and are already making a significant contribution to 
Viridor's profitability.
I am therefore confident that Pennon is well positioned to continue 
to succeed in its chosen business areas for the benefit of our 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ken Harvey
Chairman
Pennon Group Plc
18 June 2012
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5  
Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Group overview South West Water