 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 8
Directors' report - Business review - Group overview
Chairman's statement
Business performance 
Group revenue was down by 2.6% 
to  1,201 million and profit before tax* 
decreased by 1.1% to  198 million. 
We continue to maintain substantial 
cash resources and facilities and we ended 
the year with a record level of  1.15 billion.
Despite the extreme weather events 
of 2012/13 impacting on aspects of its 
operations South West Water performed 
well, achieving further advances in operating 
efficiency and customer service. It is on 
target to outperform the K5 (2010-2015) 
regulatory contract. The company has front-
end loaded delivery of the operating cost 
efficiencies required by Ofwat and is now 
sharing the benefit of its K5 outperformance 
to date with customers by reinvesting around 
 60 million in further improvements 
to services.
Viridor experienced a mixed year. 
Trading was significantly down on last 
year, with declines in recycling and landfill 
outweighing the continued growth in joint 
ventures. The company has responded 
aggressively to these near-term challenges 
which have necessitated site rationalisations, 
headcount reductions and exceptional 
charges in relation to asset impairments 
and provisions. 
On the positive side, Viridor has continued 
to make very strong progress on its growing 
Public Private Partnership (PPP) and energy 
from waste (EfW) pipeline with major new 
contracts having been signed and key 
planning permissions obtained. These 
and similar projects are expected to drive 
Viridor' s long-term profit growth.
Dividend 
The Board is committed to its policy 
to grow dividends for shareholders by 4% 
above inflation per annum up to the end 
of 2014/15. This reflects our continued 
confidence that Pennon Group remains 
well positioned to deliver strong growth 
in the medium and long-term. 
We are recommending a final dividend 
per share of 19.70p, which represents 
a 7.7% increase on last year' s final dividend. 
This will result in a total dividend for the year 
of 28.46p, an increase of 7.3% (reflecting
inflation of 3.3%) on the total dividend for 
2011/12. We will again be offering a Scrip 
Dividend Alternative to shareholders 
in respect of the final dividend for which 
the timetable is given on page 144. 
Sustainability and governance 
The Sustainability Committee of the Board 
continues to oversee our performance 
in maintaining a responsible approach 
to environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) matters. The business review 
and the sustainability report set out more 
fully our commitment to ESG and our 
notable achievements during the year which 
include carbon reduction, enhancements 
to water security, water catchment 
management and resource security 
and efficiency. 
In addition Viridor was ranked  Bronze' 
in the Business in the Community (BitC)
annual Corporate Responsibility Index, 
a major achievement given that it was 
the company' s first year in the Index. 
It was also the first company in its sector 
to achieve ISO 50001 (Energy Management 
System) accreditation. 
South West Water won both an inaugural 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales (ICAEW) Finance 
for the Future Award (large business 
category) and the Environmental Award 
at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 
for its flagship programme of work 
to improve raw water quality and natural 
water storage,  Upstream Thinking'.
In a challenging year 
for both South West Water 
and Viridor, the Group 
has achieved a profit before 
tax* only marginally below 
the previous year. 
* Before exceptional net charges.
Dear shareholder  Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 9
The Group' s governance arrangements 
continue to be reviewed annually to ensure 
we develop and improve our governance 
structures and practices taking account 
of market developments and new best
practice guidance. The corporate 
governance report on pages 60-71 
sets out the developments in the year 
which include continued improvement 
of processes and controls, including IT 
systems, to meet the increasingly 
complex needs of our businesses.
Health and safety 
We continue to strive towards achieving 
our goal of zero accidents across the Group. 
We are pleased to see a significant reduction 
in the number of reportable accidents 
in South West Water, although we are 
disappointed that 2012 saw an increase 
for Viridor. The company is redoubling 
its efforts to drive down the number 
of accidents. Health and safety initiatives 
during the year have included prioritising 
employee engagement and training 
alongside the Group' s ongoing focus 
on fundamental risk assessment systems 
and safety management procedures.  
Board succession 
As I mentioned in last year' s Annual 
Report, after 10 years as a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, Dinah Nichols 
will be retiring from the Board at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). I thank Dinah for 
her considerable contribution to the Board 
over the years including her chairmanship 
of the Sustainability Committee which has 
managed very successfully an increasingly 
complex ESG agenda. Gill Rider joined us 
as a Non-executive Director on 1 September 
2012 and we plan to appoint a further Non-
executive Director in due course who will 
succeed Gerard Connell when he retires 
at the 2014 AGM, after some 10 years 
as a Non-executive Director.  
After 20 years as Chief Executive of Viridor, 
Colin Drummond has announced his 
retirement from both that position and as an 
Executive Director of the Board. I am pleased 
that he has agreed to take up the position 
of non-executive Chairman of Viridor once 
his successor has been appointed. This is 
expected to be by the end of September 
2013. I thank Colin for the tremendous 
contribution he has made to the success of 
Viridor and Pennon over the last 20 years.
Diversity 
Following on from introducing last year 
a Boardroom Equality & Diversity Policy, 
which incorporated the recommendations 
of the Davies Review  Women on Boards', 
the Board has continued to promote equality 
and diversity across the Group. We have 
had during most of the year 25% female 
representation on the Board but we 
recognise that this will not be maintained, 
at least for a period, whilst the Board 
transition referred to above takes place. 
We will still endeavour to achieve a minimum 
of 25% female representation on the Board 
by 2015 and a minimum of 25% female 
representation in our senior management. 
Our customers 
Vitally important for both our businesses 
is the provision of the highest possible 
levels of service to our customers, 
which is reflected in our Group strategy.  
During the year South West Water has 
further developed its affordability toolkit 
for customers who are struggling to pay 
their water bills and has a new social tariff 
for 2013/14 which is aimed at its most 
hard-pressed customers. The company 
has also established new partnerships 
with Age UK to target support for older 
customers and with housing associations 
to engage with low income customers.  
Viridor continues to assist its customers 
in identifying the most robust and cost-
effective waste treatment options in 
a changing market as landfill diversion 
increases. It also helps customers to identify 
the carbon saving benefits of recycling, 
recovery and good waste and resource 
management, with its carbon reporting 
tool which is scheduled to be updated 
further this summer.
Our employees 
We know that the skills, commitment 
and hard work of our employees continue 
to be key to the success of our Group. 
We are focused on rewarding, recognising 
and developing our employees through 
a number of initiatives and strategies, details 
of which are given in the business review. 
I would like personally to thank every one 
of them for their outstanding contribution 
to the Group. 
In addition I am very grateful to my Board 
colleagues for their continuing support 
and significant contribution in what 
has been a challenging year. 
Outlook 
The Board' s priority continues to be 
the creation of shareholder value through 
its strategic focus on water and sewerage 
services; and on transforming waste 
through recycling and waste-based 
renewable energy generation.  
South West Water continues to focus 
on efficient service delivery, improvements 
in service to customers and the satisfaction 
of its regulatory and legislative obligations. 
As a consequence it is well on track 
to outperform the K5 regulatory contract. 
The company is preparing for the next 
regulatory review (PR14) and is well 
positioned for the Government' s 
legislative changes.  
Viridor faces near-term headwinds 
in recycling and the ongoing trend decline 
in landfill. The company continues to focus 
on quality in recycling and delivery of its PPP/
EfW pipeline which is expected to drive 
the company' s long-term profit growth. 
Notwithstanding the current challenges, 
I remain confident about the future success 
of our business. The Group has strong 
liquidity and funding and is well positioned  
for future growth in the best interests 
of our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Ken Harvey
Chairman
Pennon Group Plc
25 June 2013