 2
Persimmon Plc
Annual Report December 201 1
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to announce the conclusion of 
a strategic review which will see Persimmon 
return  1.9 billion to shareholders over the 
next 9  years.
Nicholas Wrigley 
Chairman 3
Persimmon Plc
Annual Report December 201 1
Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information
Chairman's Statement continued
The strategy we have consistently pursued 
over the last four years has again resulted in a 
significant improvement in Persimmon' s results 
for the year ended 31 December 2011. Underlying 
profit before tax has increased by c.55% and we 
now hold  41 million of cash balances, having 
generated  119 million of free cash flow over 
the year. W e have continued to invest in high 
quality land with our higher margin strategic 
land holdings contributing an increased share 
of our replacement land requirements. Whilst 
we expect the UK housing market to remain 
challenging, with the constrained supply of 
mortgage credit continuing, the Group is in a 
strong position to deliver further improvements 
in returns for shareholders. W e are therefore 
pleased to announce a long term capital return 
of  1.9 billion to shareholders over the next 
nine and a half years. 
Strategy and capital return
Our stated strategy has been to deliver improving 
operating margins, invest in high quality land, 
increase profitability and generate surplus cash 
to pay down debt. This strategy has proved very 
successful on all of these measures. 
The Board has conducted a detailed strategy 
review that seeks to take full advantage of 
Persimmon' s excellent prospects, while 
maintaining the Group' s capital discipline. 
Implementation of this strategy will support 
the development of the Group into a stronger, 
larger business over the next decade, while 
also maximising the return on capital 
employed and providing greater certainty 
of returns to shareholders. 
This review has been conducted against the 
current market backdrop and is based on an 
assumption that, whilst the situation appears 
to be improving, the industry may remain 
constrained by the availability of mortgage credit.
The conclusion of this review is that it is 
important for the Company to maintain its 
record of controlled, profitable growth whilst 
recognising the timing of the development 
cycle. The Group will continue to focus on 
increasing margins, profitability and free 
cash flow, while ensuring that the land 
replacement needs of the business remain 
a priority. In addition, having reviewed the 
capital structure of the business, the Board 
has decided to commit to return surplus capital 
to shareholders, whilst maintaining a largely 
ungeared balance sheet. 
Management will continue to balance 
improvement in margins with opportunities 
to grow sales volumes. The Group will continue 
to invest in its existing nationwide network of 
offices and retain the capacity to support good 
growth in sales volumes as market conditions 
allow. Similarly, we remain focused on investing 
in high quality land, the conversion of strategic 
land and optimising the landbank. The stronger 
cash margins delivered from strategic land will 
support the long term capital return strategy. 
The Board has reviewed mechanisms for 
delivering surplus capital to shareholders and 
has concluded that the excess should be released 
to shareholders by way of dividends over a 
planned nine and a half year timeframe.
The plan to return  1.9 billion ( 6.20 per share) 
by way of dividends commences in 2013 and ends 
in 2021. On completion of the Capital Return 
Plan, the Board anticipates that Persimmon 
will be achieving a greater level of sales activity, 
enhanced margins, and will possess the same 
robust capabilities that it holds today. 
We believe that the successful execution 
of this strategy will optimise the financial 
performance of the business and enhance 
value for shareholders. 4
Persimmon Plc
Annual Report December 201 1
Chairman's Statement continued
Results
Sales revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2011 were  1.54 billion (2010:  1.57 billion). 
Underlying pre-tax profits, stated before 
exceptional items and goodwill charges of 
 148.1 million, were 55% ahead of  95.5 million 
achieved in the prior year. Group profitability 
improved further in the second half of the year, 
with underlying operating margins of 10.8% 
compared with 9.0% in the first half. Full year 
underlying operating profits of  153.0 million 
were 19% ahead of the prior year (2010: 
 128.7 million), representing a full year 
operating margin of 10.0% (2010: 8.2%).
Our focus on optimising planning consents, 
maximising our selling prices and minimising 
our development costs delivered further 
underlying gross margin gains which we 
anticipate will continue.
Legal completions for the year were 9,360 
(2010: 9,384) at an average selling price of 
 166,142 (2010:  169,339) stated before the 
fair value charge on our shared equity sales.
Net finance costs for the year were  4.9 million, 
 28.3 million lower than the prior year, 
reflecting lower average borrowings and strong 
cash generation. Our discipline controlling 
work in progress and overhead costs has 
supported the delivery of  163 million of cash 
from operations, whilst continuing to invest 
in our landbank. We expect to see further 
improvement in our return on capital employed 
of 8.3% for 2011 (2010: 6.9%) as we deliver our 
strategy in 2012.
The Group now owns and controls c.63,300 
plots of land which represents over six and 
a half years of supply. Persimmon has a well 
established record of delivering significant 
value through working with local planning 
authorities, landowners and local communities 
over the long term to achieve residential 
planning consents on high quality strategic 
land. This continued in 2011 with c.50% of 
the c.14,300 plots of land acquired through the 
year being converted from the c.16,500 acres 
of strategic land that the Group either owns 
or has the option to purchase.
Dividends
The Board has considered the underlying 
profitability and cash generation for the past 
year, together with current trading and outlook 
and has decided to recommend an increased 
final dividend of 6.0 pence per share (2010: 
4.5 pence). This final dividend will be paid on 
15 June 2012 to shareholders on the Register 
on 11 May 2012. The resulting total dividend 
for the year of 10.0 pence will be 33% higher 
than last year (2010: 7 .5 pence) and will be 
covered 3.7x by underlying earnings per share. 
The directors will again be offering a dividend 
reinvestment plan ( DRIP') and the latest 
election date for the DRIP is 23 May 2012. 
The payment of future dividends is incorporated 
in the Capital Return Plan. 
Persimmon's successful strategy of improving 
operating margins, investing in high quality 
land and generating surplus cash to pay down 
debt proved highly effective. 5
Persimmon Plc
Annual Report December 201 1
Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information
Chairman's Statement continued
Outlook
With the return of the traditional seasonality 
to the housing market in 2011, we achieved 
improved sales rates through the autumn, 
resulting in a healthy forward order book at the 
end of the year. The  615 million of forward 
sales carried into 2012 was 9% higher than 
for the previous year and places us in a strong 
position for the first half of 2012.
The encouraging improvement in visitor levels 
and reservations noted first in the Autumn 
of 2011 has so far continued into 2012. Our 
weekly private sales rate per site is c.22% ahead 
of the prior year over the first eight weeks of 
2012. We currently have total forward sales of 
c. 927 .4 million (2010:  848.1 million) for 2012, 
including legal completions taken so far this 
year which is 9% up on the previous year. Prices 
remain stable and we have seen some further 
improvement in gross margins for reservations 
taken in early 2012.
Board
David Thompson, Persimmon's Senior 
Independent Director, will stand down from 
the Board at the conclusion of our forthcoming 
AGM in April. David joined Persimmon in 
1999 as a non-executive Director and has 
served the Board and its Committees with 
great distinction and dedication and has been 
a tremendous asset to the Company for over 
12 years. 
As previously announced, I am pleased 
to report that Mark Preston was appointed 
as non-executive Director with effect from 
9 January 2012. Mark (44), a chartered surveyor, 
is the Group Chief Executive of Grosvenor 
Group Limited, an appointment he took up 
in 2008. Mark brings valuable experience and 
expertise to the Board to complement the 
existing team.
In addition, again as previously announced, 
with effect from 9 January 2012 Jeff 
Fairburn (45), was promoted to Group 
Managing Director with responsibility 
for Group operational functions and 
management of the Group's strategic land 
portfolio. Jeff joined Persimmon in 1989 
and was appointed to the Board on 1 June 
2009. He will continue as North Division 
Chief Executive.
2011 has been another year of significant 
achievement for Persimmon. This success is 
the result of the hard work, dedication and 
loyalty of all our staff. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to congratulate our management 
and employees for all their efforts and I look 
forward to their future success in the execution 
of our new strategy.
Nicholas Wrigley 
Chairman 
27 February 2012
W e have made a strong start to the year 
with forward sales up by 9% to  927 million.