 Corporate Overview
As I reported in my interim statement on 30 September last year, the first half of 2013 proved a particularly challenging period for Petards
Group plc (Petards  or the Group  or the Company ). While second half trading proved every bit as difficult that period was also one of
change. This has meant that the Company entered 2014 a significantly more robust entity.
I am pleased to report that the events of, and the actions taken during, the second half of the year have facilitated a sound financial footing,
a much improved balance sheet and a strong opening order book.
The balance sheet has been considerably strengthened by the debt for equity swap with Water Hall Group plc (Water Hall ) whose own
balance sheet comprised cash and an investment in Petards shares which was subsequently realised for cash. A share placing with
predominantly new investors provided additional working capital. The net funds raised from these sources totalled  3.1 million. As a result at
31 December 2013 the Group had no bank debt and cash balances of  1.4 million.
The forward order book at the beginning of 2014 stood at  20 million (2013:  9 million), of which over 50% is scheduled for delivery in the
current year. This provides visibility of revenues for 2014 and beyond and represents a significant improvement.
The Company's operating performance depends greatly on the strength and timing of its forward order book and so the increase gives
confidence for an improved performance during 2014 whilst providing a solid platform for 2015.
Operating Review
The difficult trading conditions of the first half of the year continued into the second half with a paucity of new orders for delivery in the
period. Additionally, a re-scheduling of the Thameslink contract resulted in a proportion of deliveries for 2013/14 being deferred. Rather than
completing as previously expected in 2016, equipment deliveries are now expected to complete in 2017.
The board's strategy to pursue the new train build market continued to deliver new business during the second half of the year culminating
in a number of significant orders being received for eyeTrain and passenger counting systems from Hitachi Rail Europe, Bombardier
Transportation, Hyundai Rotem and for installation in Alstom's Coradia Nordic X60 trains.
During the last quarter of the year Petards Joyce-Loebl was successful in securing two major orders from the Ministry of Defence for its
defence business. The first, a two year extension until December 2015 to an existing contract for the provision of engineering services
related to countermeasures equipment; the second, the replacement of the Royal Air Force's Secure Management Radio Equipment (SMRE )
capability together with a ten year support programme which at over  7 million represents one of the largest single orders in Petards Joyce-
Loebl's history.
Activity levels within the Emergency Services sector remained low as the UK law enforcement agencies continued to restrict purchases for new
equipment and overseas markets tended to be slow in their decision making processes, albeit tendering levels were higher than for the UK.
The  Fit 4 Growth' programme introduced last August at Petards Joyce-Loebl included an evaluation of skills sets required, a reorganisation
of the operating structure and of the key roles within to establish a more focussed and cost effective business going forward. With the
programme and changes now in place management's focus is one of continuous development through improved practices, devolved
responsibility and accountability, performance evaluation and the re-positioning of the businesses.
Amongst the benefits are enhanced direction and involvement for management and employees in the day to day business providing a
clearer vision. Sustainable cost savings have resulted in a closer correlation of the operating costs of the business with those of revenue and
gross margins. This is an area which is extremely important as pressure on margins continue to be a key element of the business, particularly
with train builders where Petards Joyce-Loebl continues to break into new markets, as well as from the mix of business achieved in the
defence industry where gross margins can vary considerably.
Overview of the Results
The results for the year were significantly affected by the lower level of revenues achieved for the year with the Group making an operating
loss of  1.3 million (2012:  0.3 million profit) on revenues of  6.3 million (2012:  9.0 million).
While gross margins were down slightly at 40% (2012: 43%), as previously reported the prior year benefited from the receipt of proceeds
from an insurance claim relating to a fire at a key supplier and higher than forecast margins on three large projects completed in 2012. 
Administrative expenses for the year, before restructuring costs of  0.3 million, remained at similar levels to the prior year and include those
of Water Hall from 29 August 2013. 
Net financial expenses totalled  1.1 million and the results include the impact of a one off cost of  1.0 million in respect of the debt for
equity swap completed on the transaction with Water Hall. This one off cost represents the difference between the value of the ordinary
shares, convertible loan notes and share options issued as consideration to Water Hall shareholders and the value of the Petards working
capital facility, Petards ordinary shares and other net assets owned by Water Hall, plus transaction costs.
After a tax credit of  0.1 million (2012:  nil), the Group recorded a loss after tax of  2.3 million (2012:  0.2 million profit).
Chairman's Statement
2
231867 Petards Annual Report ifc-pp12  04/04/2014  12:07  Page 2 Following the debt for equity swap with Water Hall and the share placing, the Group closed the year with its strongest balance sheet for
many years with total equity of  1.7 million (2012:  1.5 million). Net debt now includes  1.5 million in respect of the convertible loan notes
issued in connection with the Water Hall transaction but no bank debt. Therefore while net debt remains similar to the previous year at  0.1
million (2012:  0.1 million) its composition is much altered and comprised convertible loan notes, which mature in September 2018, net of
the Group's cash resources, which totalled  1.4 million at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012:  nil).
Corporate Activity
Following receipt of acceptances in excess of the requisite 90% threshold and the compulsory acquisition of the outstanding shares, the
transaction with Water Hall was completed on 27 December 2013 making it a wholly owned subsidiary at the year end. In addition the share
placing announced on 9 December 2013 was approved by shareholders later that month and the gross proceeds of  1.15 million were
received by the year end.
The transaction with Water Hall resulted in Petards acquiring 3,259,933 Petards ordinary shares owned by Water Hall representing 29.99% of
Petards issued ordinary equity prior to the transaction and 14.94% post the transaction. I am pleased to report that on 13 November 2013
the shares were sold for  0.6 million net of costs representing an increase over the Petards price at the time of the purchase. 
Thanks are due to WH Ireland, Petards NOMAD and joint broker along with Hybridan as joint broker for their support with this corporate
activity and in anticipation of their ongoing support for Petards and its businesses.
Personnel
The Board would like to record its thanks to the Group's employees who have served the Company so well through their dedication and
commitment, particularly through what has been a period of significant change.
The Board and Senior Management
As previously reported, in September 2013 Paul Negus joined Petards Joyce-Loebl as Business Development Director. Paul, whose impact
has already been felt, brings to Petards considerable commercial experience and sector knowledge having spent eight years as Managing
Director of PIPS Technology Limited (PIPS), a manufacturer of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and CCTV systems.
Subsequent to the year-end Bill Conn stepped down as a director having served as Chief Executive and latterly as a non-executive director.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank Bill for his contribution during his period with the Company and wish him well for the future.
The Board keeps its composition and that of senior management under regular review with the objective of ensuring balance and
effectiveness and will make appointments as and when it is felt appropriate to do so.
Strategy
Petards is a niche player in the sectors in which it operates and retains good relationships with its customers who predominantly comprise
international  blue chip' companies and government agencies. This provides an excellent platform on which to promote and market the
Group's existing products and strengthen its position in the market place. In support of this, management continues to review the Group's
existing products with the objective of developing technologies, enhanced products, software and services.
The directors consider there to be opportunities for growth in all of Petards businesses. The move of governments both at home and
overseas to make major investment in rail transport infrastructure and rolling stock is particularly encouraging. Additionally, the award of UK
rail operating franchise renewals over the coming years is expected to result in new opportunities for Petards' products and services.
The board recognises the value of acquisitions to enhance and accelerate growth and therefore also plans to review potential product and earnings
enhancing acquisitions both within the Group's existing sectors and as standalone businesses capable of developing along their own paths.
Outlook
The benefit of a strong visible forward order book at the outset of the year has enabled a good start to 2014 with revenues and profitability
in line with budget. The Group is significantly better positioned than has been the case in recent years, with both management and
personnel invigorated for the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Each of the Group's current product areas has opportunities for development and growth. This includes raising the Group's level of activity
within the defence industry, aggressively pursuing markets for Emergency Services products and strengthening its position with existing
and new customers in the new train build and train retrofit and refurbishment markets.
While it is too early to make full year predictions or forecasts, the Group is well positioned to achieve an improved performance in 2014 and I
look forward to providing further information on the Company's progress during the course of the year.
Raschid Abdullah
Chairman
28 March 2014
3
231867 Petards Annual Report ifc-pp12  04/04/2014  12:07  Page 3