 04    Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2013
Peter Hambro
Chairman's Statement 
2013 was the year in which we repositioned 
Petropavlovsk to become a significantly lower 
cost, cash generative gold producer in order to 
reflect the lower gold price environment. As a 
result of our actions, we were able to reduce our 
net debt by US$1 15 million year-on-year ( yoy'), 
with the rate of debt reduction accelerating 
towards year end (and subsequently to the end 
of Q1 2014) due to an increase in production 
levels. Our current operational plans estimate 
that we will achieve a similar significant debt 
reduction in 2014 that should bring net debt to 
below US$850 million by year end.
The Board and our auditor place emphasis on 
two matters in Petropavlovsk's annual accounts 
for 2013 that, if unresolved, would affect the 
Company's status as a going concern. These 
are forecast breaches in December 2014 of 
certain covenants, contained in our current 
senior debt facilities, which are under review 
with our lenders, and the need to repay the 
Group's 4% guaranteed Convertible Bonds 
due 2015 ( Convertible Bonds'), which mature 
in February 2015 and of which there are 
US$310.5 million outstanding. The Board and 
the Executive Committee, supported by our 
advisers, have for some time treated the need 
for a refinancing plan to resolve these issues as 
one of paramount importance. A plan to 
execute the refinancing is well advanced and 
the Board looks forward to announcing this in 
due course. Petropavlovsk's consolidated 
financial statements for 2013 are unqualified.
Operationally, the Group performed well in 
2013. We increased attributable gold 
production and the number of ounces sold, 
notwithstanding significant operational flooding 
in our region of Russia in 2013. At the same 
time, we successfully protected the Group from 
the steep fall in the gold price, which decreased 
to a low of US$1, 196/oz during H2 2013, by 
selling forward some of our production for 
future delivery. These two achievements meant 
that, in spite of the gold price reduction, Group 
revenue at US$1.2 billion was unchanged from 
the previous year. 
Our TCC/oz including alluvials, at US$1,016/oz, 
was in line with our guidance and resulted from 
the planned mining of relatively lower grades 
and the amortisation of previously deferred 
stripping costs. I am pleased to say that cost 
cutting measures in the second half of the 
year  were successful and these measures, 
together with a 25% reduction in central 
administration costs, helped us generate 
net cash from operating activities of 
US$282 million, a 4% increase on the previous 
year, and to achieve underlying EBITDA of 
US$325 million.
We also made considerable headway in 
reducing our net debt. Thanks to the net 
cash from operating activities, (including 
a US$126 million reduction in working 
capital excluding IRC), reductions in capital 
expenditure, proceeds of asset sales, 
and repurchase of Convertible Bonds, net 
debt was reduced by US$1 15 million to 
US$948 million at the year end. This remains 
a key focus in 2014 and we expect to be able 
to reduce our net debt position to less than 
US$850 million by the end of this year.
The Group regularly tests its assets for 
impairment and, as I explained at the time of 
our half-year report, we took impairment 
charges against the value of our investments, 
reflecting the lower gold price environment in 
which we found ourselves. There were no 
material impairments during the second half 
of the year but an aggregate of US$679 million 
post-tax impairment charges and write-downs 
together with other non-cash items, such as 
depreciation and amortisation, were reflected 
in a substantial loss for the year.
Since the year end, the gold price and the 
USD:RUB exchange rate have moved in our 
favour and the impairments themselves will 
reduce the future depreciation charge. This 
means that, with our reduced level of debt and 
a continuing concentration on cost control, 
we started 2014 on a better footing. I am 
pleased to say that Q1 2014 production figures 
show a 16% yoy improvement over Q1 2013.
The Group's 2014 gold production target is 
625,000oz. This lower production target 
compared to the previous year is due, in part, 
to the lower grades scheduled to be processed 
at the Pioneer and Pokrovskiy mines, 
to the disposal of alluvial assets and also 
the adjustment of mine plans in response to 
the lower gold price environment and recent 
exploration discoveries by the Group. 
Pioneer is expected to contribute roughly a third 
of the Group's production target for the year, 
Albyn is expected to be the next largest 
producer, with the balance coming mainly from 
Malomir's Quartzitovoye zone and the newly 
discovered Magnetitovoye zone. Overall 
average cash costs for the hard-rock mines, 
now representing 95% of our 2014 target 
production, are expected to fall to US$900-950 
per ounce.
Total capital expenditure will remain focused on 
value-adding projects with a superior return on 
capital and we expect to reduce this to less than 
US$100 million in 2014, of which an estimated 
US$34 million will be spent on exploration.
Cash generation and a reduction in capital 
expenditure will continue to have a positive 
effect on net debt.
The great work carried out by our operational 
team during 2013 has been successfully 
continued in the first quarter of this year, putting 
us on track to achieve our production target 
with production output for the quarter 16% 
higher than in the previous year. This was 
achieved due to an almost doubling of gold 
production at Malomir and Albyn.
The focus for 2014 is to continue building on the 
success of the cost cutting programme 
launched in 2013, to conserve cash by 
restricting discretionary capital and exploration 
expenditure whilst redoubling our efforts to 
move newly identified, non-refractory resources 
at Pioneer and Albyn into mineable reserves. 05 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2013 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Looking further forward one must remember 
that, with the postponement of the POX Hub, 
our production remains entirely dependent 
on resources of non-refractory ore until POX 
comes on line. We are fortunate to have 
sufficient non-refractory material to support our 
estimated average gold production of 600Koz 
per year from 2015 to 2019 and we expect that 
somewhat higher grades and considerably 
lower stripping ratios will enable us to achieve 
average TCC/oz of c.US$750/oz (using 2013 
price levels and foreign exchange rates) during 
that period. Since this production will come 
from areas adjacent to our current processing 
facilities, additional capital expenditure should 
be minimal.
Successful exploration has always been the 
key to our future and 2013 was no exception. 
Following the decision to postpone the 
POX project and in order to give clarity to our 
Resource and Reserve statistics, in this report 
we break them down into non-refractory and 
refractory categories. 
In 2013, our focus on exploration for non-
refractory ore delivered an increase in non-
refractory resources of c. 1.5Moz. to 13.8Moz 
at the year end (after c.0.8Moz of depletion). 
Our non-refractory reserves declined by 
0.4Moz to 4.39Moz, mostly due to depletion. 
Our focus on adding non-refractory resources 
and reserves will continue in 2014, and in 
particular will focus on converting newly 
established non-refractory resources into 
reserves at, and near, the Group's ore 
processing facilities.
At the same time refractory resources remained 
the same as at the end of last year and 
refractory reserves decreased by 0.34Moz to 
4.82Moz, mainly due to the reclassification of 
some material at Pioneer and Malomir into 
non-refractory reserves. These refractory 
ounces will be utilised if the POX plant 
becomes operational in the future.
I was delighted to welcome Mr. Dmitry 
Chekashkin as an Executive Director and as 
Chief Operating Officer of the Company and 
wish every good fortune to Ms. Rachel English, 
who stepped down as a Non-Executive 
Director in order to take up a directorship 
of African Barrick Gold plc as well as to 
Mr Doug King who retires as our Audit Partner. 
Our iron ore subsidiary, IRC, which is accounted 
for on a  held-for-sale' basis because of the 
status of the transactions which are the subject 
of the subscription agreements with General 
Nice and Minmetals Cheerglory, continues to 
grow and develop in the way I hoped it would. 
In 2013, it exceeded its production targets 
for the third consecutive year at Kuranakh and 
increased its underlying Kuranakh segmental 
EBITDA by 40% to US$22.8 million. At the same 
time construction and development work at 
K&S remains on track for first commercial 
production in the second half of 2014. 
Over 70% of General Nice's commitment under 
the IRC subscription agreement has been 
received, although a further US$88 million 
of additional funding which was due to be 
received by 22 April 2014 has been further 
delayed. We understand from IRC that General 
Nice has indicated that it intends to make a 
further payment of c.US$20 million by the 
end of April 2014. Once General Nice has 
completed in full its Stage 2 subscription, 
under the terms of the subscription agreement, 
Minmetals Cheerglory, will also invest c.US$30 
million. At the end of the year IRC had almost 
US$92 million in cash. 
The recent sharp decline in the gold price and 
the Group's extensive programme of capital 
expenditure during the last several years 
resulted in an increase in the Group's 
indebtedness and reduction of our forecast 
underlying EBITDA. Although we have 
successfully executed a deliberate programme 
to reduce net debt to less than US$1 billion 
at the end of 2013, it is clear that the Group 
requires the successful completion of a 
refinancing process to strengthen its balance 
sheet in 2014. In the absence of such 
refinancing, our forecast show breaches of 
certain covenants in our banking facilities at 
31 December 2014, including the facility with 
ICBC to fund the development of the K&S 
mine which is guaranteed by the Company. 
In addition, the US$310.5 million outstanding 
Convertible Bonds fall due for repayment 
in February 2015 and the Group does not 
currently have sufficient committed funding 
to refinance this debt.
In recognition of this, the Group has developed 
a refinancing plan which includes negotiations 
with the Group's senior lenders, including ICBC, 
(on relaxation of certain covenants in the 
Group's banking facilities) and the refinancing 
of the Convertible Bonds. The Directors will 
seek shareholder approvals for these actions 
if necessary in due course.
Finally, it is particularly worth noting that by the 
time of the AGM the Group will have reached 
the 20th Anniversary of its foundation.
 
Peter Hambro, 
Chairman