 02
Phynova Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Chairman's Statement
Despite the challenging environment, Phynova has made real progress
in the development of its business in the past year. We have grown
the Groups' presence in China with important new commercial
collaborations, made significant strides in the advancement of our
pipeline of drug candidates through the development process, and are
now generating strong commercial interest in our pipeline.
As previously reported, we have re-organised our Board and
appointed two non-executive directors with strong pharmaceuticals
backgrounds. We have also taken the opportunity to streamline our
management and focus on the two core elements of our business: the
development of our interests in China to generate a pipeline of novel
new therapeutic candidates and the development and
commercialisation of the pipeline in the West. 
Development Programme 
The further development and commercialisation of Phynova's pipeline
of drug candidates is key to the success of the Group. During the last
several months Phynova has been in discussions with a number of
potential licensing and development partners. In November the
Company announced a commercial agreement with Norgine, a
leading specialty pharmaceutical company. Under the terms of the
collaboration, Norgine will assess certain of Phynova's drug
candidates in proprietary assays in order to measure their
effectiveness in the treatment of liver disease. We are very pleased to
be working with Norgine and we believe that this collaboration is the
first of several we anticipate announcing in the near future.
Regarding the pipeline, I can report the following: 
PYN17 - Financial constraints have prevented us from commencing
the Phase IIb study planned to begin in 2008. The IND granted for the
trial is still open and if sufficient funding becomes available or a
partner is found for PYN17 we would carry on with the trial. We are
also in talks with a regional pharmaceutical company to license
PYN17 in an area of the world that has a very high rate of hepatitis C
infections. 
PYN 6 - Phynova's anti-MRSA drug candidate has continued to show
excellent efficacy in further pre-clinical studies carried out in the past
year. Working with collaborators at Queen Mary, University of London,
Phynova demonstrated that MRSA cultured in the presence of PYN6
does not become resistant to PYN6. These studies have also
demonstrated that PYN6 appears to have a dual action on MRSA,
inhibiting the growth of the bacterium, as well as a strong bactericidal
action. As a consequence of these results, PYN6 will become
Phynova's next clinical candidate and first human studies are targeted
to start within 12-15 months. In June 2007, a presentation on PYN6
was given at the American Society of Microbiology's Annual General
Meeting. PYN6 is an excellent candidate for rapid development and
because of this, commercial discussions with interested parties are
well underway.
Despite the challenging
environment, Phynova has
made real progress in the
development of its business in
the past year. 03
Phynova Group plc
Annual Report 2008
PYN22 - is a candidate for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), considered to be the most common liver disorder in
the Western world. NAFLD is closely associated with the metabolic
syndrome and obesity. There is no evidenced-based treatment for
NAFLD, and most pharmacological agents are primarily approved for
other aspects of the metabolic syndrome, i.e. anti-obesity drugs and
diabetic drugs. With the recent withdrawal of the marketing
authorisation for one of the leading obesity drugs (rimonabant) that
was being trialled for use in NAFLD, there is renewed interest from
pharmaceutical companies to find novel treatments for this potential
block-buster market. We are in commercial discussions with various
specialty pharmaceutical companies about co-developing and/or out-
licensing PYN22. Again, financial constraints have delayed the clinical
development of PYN22. However, further funding or co-
development/out-licensing deals could see PYN22 in the clinic within
12 months of financing.
PYN9 - as has been well documented in the press over the last year,
China's drug regulatory agency, the SFDA, is going through a major re-
structuring that has caused extensive delays in the normal course of its
business. Unfortunately our JV partner, Botanic Century has been one
of many Chinese drug development companies who have suffered as
a result. Very recently there have been signs that the SFDA is beginning
to function again and Botanic Century have had communication with
the agency that suggests they will be able to begin the registration trial
for PYN9 in the second quarter of 2009 and hopefully have Phase II
data by the end of 2009. If this timeline is achieved, Phynova will be in
a strong position to license out PYN9 in 2010.
PYN18 - is an antiviral candidate that has shown good activity against
two flaviviruses; hepatitis C virus (HCV) and dengue virus. During the
past year, the preclinical in vitro screening was furthered with
confirmatory studies being carried out at the world-renowned virology
labs of Prof Eric de Clercq at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in
Belgium. Laboratory studies have confirmed that PYN18 has a
potentially wide therapeutic index with very low toxicity in cell culture.
Studies investigating the activity of PYN18 against dengue confirmed
the data from initial screenings in Thailand and showed that it had
significant antiviral activity against the dengue virus (MIC <1.2 g/mL)
and appeared to have a novel mechanism of action, affecting late-
stage viral processes. We are in advanced discussions with several
Chinese organisations interested in the collaborative development of
PYN18 for treating HCV , and are seeking charitable and/or
government/military funding for the further development of the 
dengue programme.
PYN7 - Investigations of compounds obtained from the Hong Kong
Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine continued through 2008.
The studies identified three compounds with activity to warrant further
investigation and these compounds were screened against various
cancer cell lines as well as non-cancerous cells with the compounds
showing greater selectivity towards cancerous cells. The compounds
were screened to investigate their combination with standard
chemotherapy agents and showed good additive activity. Due to the
early stage of this project and the current financial climate, this project
has been temporarily put on hold so that greater resources can be
injected into the projects closer to realising commercial/out-licensing
revenues.
Phynova China 
China has been the source of Phynova's product pipeline for several
years now and the Group has continued to benefit from its presence
there during the last year. Our subsidiary Phynova China has made
steady progress in developing its commercial relationships with our
existing partners such as Botanic Century as well as establishing new
ones with major companies in China such as Fosun Pharma and Tasly
Pharmaceuticals.
Botanic Century, of which the Group owns 45% and which, as a result
of the agreements controlling its operations and activities, is
accounted for as joint venture, has made good progress in a number
of areas. As detailed above, the registration trial for PYN9 is scheduled
to begin next year. Botanic Century already has a marketing and
distribution agreement in place for PYN9 that will facilitate its rapid
entry into the Chinese pharmaceutical market as soon as regulatory
approval is granted. In addition to developing its drug pipeline,
Botanic Century has over the last year begun to develop products for
the nutraceuticals and cosmetics industries. An extract originally
developed for the treatment of diabetes has shown good in vitro
activity as an  anti-aging' substance for the skin and discussions are
underway to out-license it as a new cosmetic ingredient. Botanic
Century has also developed a new supplement for people suffering
from acne that has been introduced to the US market where sales of it
have recently begun. One advantage of developing products for the
non-pharmaceutical markets is that they can generate early revenues. 04
Phynova Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Chairman's Statement
continued
In July Phynova signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Fosun
Pharma, one of China's largest pharmaceutical groups to establish a
strategic collaboration for the development of botanical drugs for the
Chinese and global markets. Discussions are currently underway with
other pharmaceutical companies with a view to creating co-
development and commercial partnerships for several of Phynova's
pipeline candidates in China, which by 2010 is expected to be the
world's fifth largest pharmaceutical market. 
China is fast gaining a reputation one of the most innovative R & D
centres for drug research in the world and over the last year Phynova
has continued to expand its research network amongst scientists and
institutions involved in  cutting edge' research relating to plant-derived
drugs. Phynova has recently entered into a Collaboration Agreement
with the School of Pharmacy at Suzhou University to co-develop
novel botanical drugs. Phynova China's research network has
attracted the attention of Western pharmaceutical, cosmetic and
nutraceutical companies who have expressed interest in collaborating
with Phynova in order to discover and develop new plant-derived
active compounds for their respective areas of interest and the
Company anticipates signing research agreements with such
companies next year. 
Phynova's management team has spent several years creating a
significant  footprint' in China. Given the confluence of favourable
conditions in the Chinese pharmaceutical market together with
Phynova's well established presence and extensive research and
commercial network in China, the upcoming year is an opportune
moment to further expand Phynova's business interests in China. 
Financials
The results for the year ended 30 September 2008 are in the financial
statements starting on page 10.
The Company's cash position, as at 30 September 2008, was
 375,811 and its cash position immediately prior to the date of these
financial statements was  69,000. In April 2008, Phynova raised  1.2
million before expenses by means of a placing of shares. These funds
were raised through a placing of new ordinary shares at 40 pence per
share with existing investors and other private investors.
Phynova's American Depositary Receipts (ADRs ) were listed for
trading on the OTCQX platform in New York in April 2008. This was
undertaken in order to improve our liquidity and to increase our
access to US based investors. However in order to make full use of
the facility we need to visit and make presentations to US investors,
which we have not done in view of the current financial environment.
When investment activity picks up, we will do this. 
Symptomatic relief of chronic 
hepatitis C (CHC)
PYN17
China has been the source of Phynova's product pipeline for
several years now and the Group has continued to benefit from
its presence there during the last year.