 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman's statement
3
Overview
I am pleased to report Plant Health Care's
results for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The year under review included a number of
important strategic developments which place
Plant Health Care in a stronger position to
achieve its goal of becoming one of the world's
leading providers of natural technologies for the
promotion of plant health and growth. We
entered into two new agreements with
Syngenta Crop Protection (Syngenta) and
others with Legacy Seeds (Legacy) and with
Germains Seed Technology (Germains), which
we expect to advance the Group's progress to
commercialisation and revenues in the coming
years. We sold our reclamation business in May
2010 and, since the year end, our US landscape
and retail business in January 2011, for a total
consideration of $5.1 million, in order to focus
on the worldwide agriculture market and to
strengthen our financial resources to achieve
our strategic goals. Nonetheless, our financial
results were disappointing, primarily due to the
much lower than expected level of Harpin sales
to Monsanto Company (Monsanto), which had
a substantial amount of inventory carried
forward from 2009. We are pleased to report
that Direct Enterprises, Inc. (DEI), a leading
distributor of seed treatments in the US, has
acquired half of this excess stock and has
undertaken to acquire the balance by the end
of the year.
The challenge of providing enough food for an
ever-increasing population continues to make
headline news around the world. Improved
agricultural productivity is the key to meeting
the forecasted increase in demand for crops
and governments around the world are
becoming increasingly proactive in seeking
products to help improve yields, as
demonstrated by Plant Health Care's agreement
with the Brazilian government to evaluate the
efficacy and economic feasibility of Myconate
in Brazilian agriculture, signed in May 2010.
Another driving factor behind the market in
which Plant Health Care operates is the need to
provide greener crops  with a smaller
environmental footprint. Retailers and
consumers have become more active in
demanding lower levels of residual chemicals in
their food and the soil in which it is grown. The
need to minimise environmental impact has
always been at the forefront of Plant Health
Care's ethos; Harpin and Myconate products
leave no residue in the soil or on the crop
after harvest.
Our cash and liquid short-term investments
balances as of mid-February 2011 are
$18.2 million. This strong liquidity position will
allow the Group to develop and expand
relationships with existing and new partners
over the coming years, as well as to continue
to invest in formulation and product
development of its Harpin and Myconate
technology platforms, while our revenue builds.
Financial results
Group sales from continuing operations were
$7.1 million (2009: $16.7 million). The reduction
in sales was due primarily to Monsanto's excess
inventory position, which resulted in an $8.2
million decline in Harpin sales to this customer.
Additionally, the Group chose not to continue
with its early order  programmes in Europe
and Mexico, which it has implemented in
recent years, in order to establish improved
pricing and terms of sale for the future.
Gross profit margin from continuing operations
was 51% (2009: 67%) with the margin decline
being due to the aforementioned reduction in
Harpin off-take by Monsanto.
Operating expenses from continuing operations
were $11.5 million (2009: $12.9 million), as
the Group actively reduced administrative
expenses, especially in the area of headcount
and overall compensation, while increasing
investment levels in field trials and
product development. The resulting operating loss from continuing
operations was $7.9 million (2009: loss of
$1.8 million).
The net loss for the year was $7.6 million
(2009: loss of $1.3 million).
Discontinued operations
We announced, in May 2010, the sale of our
reclamation business for a consideration of
$0.4 million and, in January this year, the sale of
our US landscape and retail business for a
consideration of $4.65 million. These
discontinued businesses contributed
$0.1 million to operating profit in 2010
(2009: loss of $0.6 million).
As was previously indicated, the Board believes
that the returns from these businesses did not
justify the financial capital and management
resource that was required to operate them.
Moreover, the businesses are inherently low
margin businesses and serve as a distraction of
both time and resource from the much higher
margin business of licensing the intellectual
property estate that underpins our Harpin and
Myconate technology platforms, thereby
utilising the distribution reach of large
multinational companies for getting product
to market.
Partnerships
Following these disposals, management is able
to focus on developing products for the
worldwide agricultural market. Commercial
exploitation will be achieved through existing
and new partnerships with major industry
players at multiple levels in the agricultural
value chain who have the ability to achieve
distribution of our technologies throughout
the world.
Having demonstrated success in our 2010 trial
programme in large acreage crops, such as
corn, soybeans and potatoes, and in
combination with widely-used chemicals, such
as fungicides and herbicides, we believe even
more strongly that commercialisation of our
technologies will be achieved in the future.
Despite the decline in sales to Monsanto in
2010, the recent sale of Monsanto's inventory
overhang is expected to have a positive impact
on our future potential revenues from Harpin
in the US. We are actively engaged in a number
of marketing and product development
efforts to enhance and expand this
commercial relationship.
Two agreements were signed with Syngenta
in 2010 to evaluate and potentially develop
Harpin in a wide variety of crops and crop
protection products. In 2011, Syngenta will be
performing its first full year of testing on a wide
variety of crops and enter its second year of
trials with the world's largest crop protection
product, glyphosate. We also signed a four-year
agreement with Legacy, one of the leading
alfalfa seed companies in the US, granting them
the exclusive rights to Harpin and Myconate for
the alfalfa market in the US. An exclusive
agreement was signed with Germains, part of
the Associated British Foods group, to develop
and market Plant Health Care's Harpin proteins
as a seed treatment for sugar beets worldwide
in combination with Germains' seed
priming technologies.
Monsanto is one of the major and most
influential agrichemical companies in the world.
For this reason, it remains an important partner
for us and continues to promote Harpin to the
downstream agriculture distribution market
through a multi-year agreement with DEI to
market Harpin. We are also working with
Monsanto on new and improved technologies
and products.
Chairman's statement continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman's statement continued
5
Product development
Two areas are being targeted in our research
and product development programme. First,
Plant Health Care is seeking to further improve
the utility of its existing Harpin product for both
its partners and its downstream grower
customers. Formulation development will
further improve shelf life and ease of handling
both on farm and in seed treatment facilities.
Developments in liquid formulations are already
showing promise. Secondly, we are investing in
the development of the next generation of
products from our Harpin technology platform.
These are Harpin versions with increased and
more specifically targeted bioactivity, designed
to contribute to an expanded suite of Harpin
products for the future. Several candidates,
with great promise to further increase yields in
major crops, have already been identified and
isolated in the greenhouse. Advanced field trials
and development work on these new products
will begin during 2011.
Current trading and outlook
As stated above, our strategy is to focus on
rolling-out our IP-protected technology
platforms with current and new partners
during 2011.
Agrichemical companies are forever seeking
enhanced product performance, product
differentiation and IP protection, all of which
can be achieved by combining Myconate and
Harpin with traditional crop protection products.
A more effective, more targeted product and
extended patent life will prevent these
products from becoming generics and suffering
from a resultant drop in sale price.
It takes time, up to three years, for revenues to
be generated from partnership arrangements
whilst we work with our partners on the
formulations and combinations and on trialling
the products ahead of product launch. We
recognise that, during this period, our revenues
and profitability can be significantly impacted
year-on-year until we have a more extensive
portfolio of on-market products and a more
consistent and diversified flow of partnership
revenue. However, by focusing our business
strategy, we have ensured that our cash
position is strong and the combination of our
product pipeline, strong market drivers and the
good progress we are making with our partners
and potential partners encourages us to look
forward to the future with optimism and
confidence in our ability to realise our strategy.
In closing, I would like to thank the entire Plant
Health Care team for their efforts in 2010 to
position the Group for future success.
Dominik Koechlin
Chairman
18 February 2011