 Artisan presents its results for the year ended 30 June 2009. Last
year I stated that the Group faced some of the toughest trading
conditions in its history in respect of the residential market. During
the first half of the financial year to 30 June 2009, these tough
trading conditions only became worse as the full impact of the
economic difficulties on the property markets became apparent with
both customer confidence evaporating and customer funding
becoming very difficult to obtain. In January 2009 the underlying
demand in the residential market prompted renewed customer
interest, but after an initial flurry, this has continued only at a more
modest level. Commercial customers for our stock items have started
to re-emerge towards the end of the financial year. Despite these
small signs of an upturn in the second half, volumes remain low and
values depressed in the fragile market.
Group results
Group turnover for the year reduced to  10.9m (2008:  23.4m). The
commercial business generated turnover of  2.9m (2008:  10.7m)
and the residential business turnover of  7.8m (2008:  15.1m). This
much reduced level of sales has resulted in an Operating Loss of
 2.5m (2008: Profit  2.2m) before exceptional items and an
Operating Loss of  6.8m (2008: Profit  1.9m) after exceptional items.
It should be noted that the 30 June 2008 full year results included a
revaluation surplus arising on our investment properties amounting to
 1.2m compared to a writedown of  0.8m in this year's accounts.
Overview
In both the first and second halves of the financial year, the markets
for our residential and commercial divisions have continued to be
difficult and volatile. It was with some relief that we saw a number of
customers returning to the market at the beginning of 2009. This
renewed interest was dampened somewhat by the great difficulty in
securing mortgage funding and maintaining transactions through to
completion in the face of some very cautious mortgage valuations.
The initial surge from the few buyers able to fund transactions has
slowed to a slightly lower but steady pace. These sales generate
cash, but are not yet at a level that will secure profitable trading.
Although Artisan Developments traded reasonably well in the first half
of the year, completing forward sales agreed sometime ago, sales of
stock items, which are purchases made over a shorter timescale, were
very poor for most of the year. Pleasingly, customer enquires improved
towards the end of the financial year and stock sales and tenancies
have been agreed for completions before and after the year end.
As I have previously advised, the Board foresaw the approach of
tougher trading conditions and took steps to create a strong cash
headroom position. The benefit of this position has been that it has
allowed us to fund the trading losses and to hold funds in respect of
bank demands for reduced asset debt ratios. The reduced debt ratios
have been part of our successful negotiations with our bank to extend
our development facility to 1 July 2011 and adopt a cash covenant
in lieu of an interest to profit covenant.
Land purchases have been concentrated on seeking out option and
joint venture structures rather than outright acquisitions in order to
limit financial exposure.
The inherent quality of our product is of assistance in this market and
we have had buyers who have preferred Artisan and Rippon Homes
products to cheaper competition.
Marketing
The development divisions have continued to look for innovative
ways to promote their products and to negotiate keenly on pricing. To
help overcome the lack of mortgage availability to those with
restricted funds, we have embarked on a programme of selling some
of our lower value properties on a shared equity basis.
Stock values
We have carefully considered the pricing of all stock plots on an
individual basis at both the half year and year end. Writing down
values in accordance with financial standards combined with some
cost increase has resulted in the exceptional losses we have
disclosed in the accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009. The
basis of providing these writedowns has been to reduce the carrying
value to a position whereby our stock will breakeven at gross margin
level where there are no future profits expected on a site.
Cost reduction programmes
The management teams have continued to look for cost savings
through the year. Production has been substantially reduced with
staffing levels reduced accordingly. Unfortunately, we have had to
embark on redundancy programmes through the year. The staffing
numbers have been reduced by approximately two thirds, but further
redundancies have been avoided by virtue of most staff in the Group
now working three or four day weeks. The Group Directors have
recognised this contribution by staff towards cost saving and have
generally agreed temporary salary reductions.
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 ARTISAN (UK) plc 5
Chairman's statement 6 ARTISAN (UK) plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
Investment Division
During the year we have not sought to increase our investment in
long term property holdings. The tenants in the existing buildings
appear to have settled into the new buildings well and without any
significant teething problems, underlining the quality of the products
we deliver to customers.
We have, as a Board, had to consider the carrying values of the
properties. We are not immune to the general increase required for
investment yields and we have reflected this accordingly by reducing
the carrying value of the properties. This has resulted in a  0.8m
charge in the Income Statement compared with the surplus of  1.2m
achieved in 2008.
Dividend
Although aware that shareholders wish to see a consistent approach
to dividend payments, the Board believes that is only sensible and
prudent to retain funds within the business whilst we await a return
to normal trading conditions and better results. Accordingly no
dividend is recommended for the year.
Aspen Finance Limited
In July 2009, Aspen Finance Limited (Aspen ) a company through
which I am beneficially interested in the share capital of Artisan (UK)
plc made a mandatory offer to shareholders as a result of the
conversion of a loan note previously issued to Aspen, increasing
Aspen's shareholding to above 30%, thus triggering a mandatory
offer to shareholders. As a result of the conversion and acceptances
of the offer, Aspen's shareholding is now 69.6% of the voting shares
of Artisan. Over 900 shareholders accepted the offer from Aspen
Finance Limited. As stated in the offer document, it is Aspen's
current intention to retain Artisan's admission to trading on AIM.
Outlook
As I have already highlighted, although the markets for both
residential and commercial property remain difficult and fragile, there
are signs that the property markets have begun to stabilise with
encouraging national market statistics now starting to emerge. Whilst
continued improvement in customer confidence would be welcome,
the most significant improvement required to improve outlook is in
mortgage availability. Buyers need to have access to mortgages
requiring lower deposits, particularly first time buyers. Once
mortgage availability improves we believe the problem of downward
pressure on valuations on agreed property sales will ease.
The differentiation between old properties and the improved
environmental performance of new properties is becoming more
marked and better recognised by clients, particularly as regards
commercial property. We believe this will help drive demand for our
product and we are continuing to take steps to ensure that our
products meet the exacting demands of the market and that of new
legislation.
We also believe that debt funding for the business will become tighter
as debt providers seek to reduce debt levels, apply less flexible
funding structures and reduce the loan to cost and loan to value
ratios. We do retain a positive relationship with our bankers and have
their assurance that they wish work with us in providing facilities
beyond the existing term for the main development facility. Our
business is well backed with valuable assets which we expect to be
better appreciated by the market as more normal conditions return.
As stated in the Aspen offer document, it is the Group's intention to
review the existing operations and assess future opportunities for
growth. Such opportunities may include the use of Artisan as a
platform to expand either the Group's residential or commercial
property activities, organically or via acquisitions. Shareholders
should be aware that this may require additional debt or equity
funding, the form of which cannot currently be predicted and may
lead to future shareholder dilution.
It is the Board's strong belief that the fundamental characteristic of
property development, undersupply of both residential and
commercial properties in our local markets, remains strong and that
once the economy is better in balance there will be a renewed strong
and consistent demand for the Group's product.
Michael W Stevens
Chairman
6 October 2009
Chairman's statement continued