 Financial Review
Our overall performance for FY2013 has been
similar to the prior year: 
     Revenue is marginally down at 
 31.4 million;
     underlying* profit before tax of 
 3.3 million is 12% down on the prior year;
     net debt has reduced by  1.8 million to
 8.4 million; and
     adjusted* earnings per share of 10.0p is
broadly the same as the prior year.
*     Excluding, as appropriate, amortisation,
exceptional costs, unrealised foreign
exchange & derivative gains/losses (see
page 16).
Revenue reflected macroeconomic issues
applying to different parts of the world.
Excluding Continental Europe, revenue
increased 2% with revenues from Asia Pacific
being up by 4.5%. However, revenue from
Continental Europe was down by 15.5%, as
customers there reduced stocks in response
to recessionary conditions. Importantly, net
new business (i.e. new business gained less
business lost) contributed an additional 3.8%
to sales in the year; this was better than the
prior year figure of 2.3% and respectable in
difficult trading conditions.
Operating profit was lower due to decreased
revenue, currency movements and some
additional sales overheads compared to the
prior year. The operational gearing in our
business is such that the shortfall in revenue
resulted in a reduction in profit before tax of
approximately  0.2 million. As regards
currency, FY2013 was hedged at a worse rate
than FY2012, resulting in approximately 
 0.2 million adverse movement between the
two years. Finally, additional business
development costs reduced profits by 
 0.1 million in the year. We believe these
costs will pay-off over 2-3 years because 
of the lengthy sales cycles that apply to 
our businesses.
Despite lower operating profit, earnings per
share were broadly flat due to lower interest
costs and a lower tax charge. The lower tax
charge was due to the benefit of  1 million of
R&D tax credits and 24% corporation tax rate
applying this year compared to 26% in the
prior year.
Capital expenditure of  0.9 million has been
at a similar level to prior years although we
have started to shift the balance towards
expenditure on new capacity and new
capabilities, which together accounted for
72% of capital expenditure compared to 
29% in the prior year. Working capital was
16.4% of sales and continues to be 
managed well.
The Group has once again demonstrated very
strong cash flows with 63% of the 
 4.5 million EBITDA converting to operating
cash flow. This enabled us to pay debt
interest costs, corporation tax and to propose
an increase in dividend. Meanwhile debt
reduced by  1.8 million over the year.
New Business
Revenue from new business was  1.7 million
during the period, reflecting the investment
made in business development activities over
the last two years. The annual sales value of
the pipeline of new business that has been
won but has not yet flowed through to revenue
due to engineering lead times, stands at 
 6.1 million. Meanwhile, the pipeline of new
business is extremely strong with a number of
exciting potential projects under design and
development in our Industrial Products division. 
We have won 11 new key accounts
(customers with potential turnover in excess
of  100,000) during the year, so just missing
our target of one to two per month. Of greater
significance was the fact that some of these
wins were potentially very significant
customers over coming years; for example, 
it included two of the world's leading camera
manufacturers, the largest rubber hose plant
in the world, and one of Europe's largest
manufacturers of cardboard packaging. We
have a total of 60 customers exceeding
 100,000 in sales and a further 31 active
customers who we anticipate will get to this
level in the coming years. 
China
We have continued to advance our activities
in China, a key region for future growth. 
Our Shanghai trading company is being
converted into a manufacturing entity and will
move from downtown Shanghai to the
Songjiang district, which is on the outskirts of
the city. There we expect to complete a fit-out
of a 1,750 square metre factory/office building
to make machined plastic ball bearings, for
which we have both domestic demand and
export demand. Meanwhile we have already
increased our staff in China to six people and
this will expand further as we progress with
the factory. We have also expanded our
distribution network for creasing matrix and
started to sell hose mandrels direct to local
companies as well as to foreign controlled
companies operating there.
06 Company Overview Plastics Capital plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chairman's Statement
Good new business generation, with lower
interest and taxation costs have left revenues
and EPS broadly unchanged on the prior
year despite depressed sales to Continental
Europe as well as adverse exchange 
rate movements. Innovation
Innovation has become the critical factor in
driving the future growth of the Group. We
invest approximately  1 million per year on
R&D activities, most of which is on product
development rather than pure research. We
are also making active use of the government
funded KTP (Knowledge Transfer
Partnership ) initiative, working with Exeter
University's polymer science department. 
Innovation has focused on three major
initiatives to drive the growth of the Group
over the next few years. Each relies on
technical advances in material, product
and/or processing technology. 
     Bespoke Mandrel Materials - we no
longer simply  sell high performance nylon
mandrels' to rubber hose plants. We now
provide a diagnostic service to analyse
what mandrel material will best fit the
rubber compound used by each customer
for each of their applications - then we sell
a bespoke mandrel/lubricant solution. 
Key variables that matter to each
customer include useful life, flexibility,
tensile strength and extractability.
Interestingly, we have found that the
chemistry of customers' rubber
compounds vary significantly, and there is
generally a poor understanding of the fit
between mandrel material and the ease of
processing the rubber hose together with
its impact on the quality of the end
product. As a result, we can add
tremendous value by optimising our
customers' manufacturing process and at
the same time significantly increasing the
market available to us by broadening the
range of mandrel materials we are able to
process and offer. We have seen excellent
new business wins over the last 6-9
months from this area of innovation.
Further, we have a long list of conversion
opportunities that we are busy working on.
     Multi-layer Industrial Films - we are soon
to complete the installation of a  0.75
million investment in a new extrusion line
that will be able to further improve the
strength to cost ratio of the films we
produce, particularly once we have
applied some innovative material blends;
this is a key to differentiation in the
industrial film packaging market. This new
line will also provide an additional 15-20%
capacity and enable us to manufacture
narrower bags and sacks than have been
possible to date, which will open up new
and attractive market segments. 
     Ultra-high Volume Bearings - key to
growth in our bearings business is
increasing the average size of projects
that go through the design, prototyping
and tooling process. This is a time
intensive and highly technical process and
needs to deliver more substantial projects
into the manufacturing platform of the
business to enable significant revenue
and profit growth. Over the last 2-3 years
we have increased the proportion of major
projects in the pipeline substantially;
exciting examples include:
        Sealed toner cartridges - bearings
within toner cartridges for
photocopiers and printers; a project
that has necessitated significant R&D.
Prototypes have now passed testing
and we are in discussions about
production tooling and launch.
        Automotive control knobs - bearings
used in instrument controls in car
interiors. Prototyping is largely
complete and we are in detailed
commercial discussions with a number
of tier 1 automotive contractors.
        CCTV PTZ mechanisms - complete
systems based around plastic ball
bearings to provide the pan, tilt and
zoom (PTZ ) motion for closed
circuit television cameras. We have
designed a standard system for use
by brand owners and are in detailed
discussion with a number, particularly
in China where the market
opportunity is substantial.
Raw Materials
Prices for the engineering grades of plastic that
we use have remained flat, whilst commodity
grades have been volatile. In particular,
polyethylene gyrated 25% up and down during
the year finishing the year on an upward trend.
Over the year average prices were about 5%
above the prior year. We have once again
demonstrated our ability to manage pricing
effectively and pass through raw material cost
movements to our customers during a period
of considerable volatility.
Dividend
The proposed final dividend of 1.33p brings
the total dividend for the year to 2p per share.
This is 1p more than that paid in the prior
year. We intend to progressively increase
dividends over coming years as the Group's
balance sheet continues to strengthen.
The Company intends to pay the final
dividend of 1.33p to all shareholders on 
2 August 2013 in respect of the year ended
31 March 2013. The record date for the
dividend is 5 July 2013 and the associated
ex-dividend date is 3 July 2013.
Outlook
Trading for Q1 FY2014 is in line with
management's expectations and there are
initial indications that trading conditions will
improve over the coming months. The
pipeline of new business remains strong and
we believe that existing business will at least
continue at similar levels to last year. The
combination of sustained existing business
combined with new business should result in
top line growth over FY2014. We are also
actively pursuing some interesting acquisition
opportunities and acquisitive growth remains
an important part of our strategy. We are
hopeful that this will complement organic
trading during the year.
The Board wishes to extend its sincere
thanks to the Group's employees, who have
responded to new challenges extremely well. 
We continue to be highly profitable and cash
generative as a Group. We look forward to
year of good progress in FY2014.
Faisal Rahmatallah
Executive Chairman
Company Overview 07 Plastics Capital plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013