  
 
 3
 
Artisan (UK) plc 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
The tough trading conditions experienced in 2009 and 2010 have continued into 2011 and this is reflected in our 
results.  The key issues of restricted customer confidence and the shortage of debt funding available to support 
property transactions remain the overriding features of our principal trading sectors, residential and commercial 
property development.  
 
Demand for our product, if only the transaction can be financed, remains relatively high and we have seen 
improved trading since the 30 June 2011 year end.   
 
In the residential market there has been a very positive response to our new sites whilst in the commercial arena 
we have experienced a rise in interest in commissioning new forward let or forward purchased offices.  This is 
very encouraging and while most of these potential transactions have yet to be translated into sales, we have 
since the year end sold our long term leasehold property at our Colmworth Business Park in St Neots and 
completed a substantial forward let contract for a 30,000 sq.ft. office and operations centre to be built on the 
Group's site in Peterborough.   
 
 
Group results 
Our Group results were in line with management's expectations and very much influenced by the low volume 
market and the low margins achievable on our older land stock.  Group turnover for the year reduced to  7.4m 
(2010:  9.4m).  The residential business generated turnover of  6.6m (2010:  7.6m) and the commercial 
business generated a turnover of  0.5m (2010:  1.5m).  This reduced level of sales has resulted in an operating 
loss of  1.6m (2010: loss  1.3m) before exceptional items and an operating loss of  2.2m (2010: loss  1.5m) 
after exceptional items.  The  0.6m exceptional items (2010:  0.1m) are the result of an impairment review on 
stocks. 
 
Overview 
As I indicated in my opening comment, the market conditions continue to be broadly unfavourable.  On the 
residential side we have mitigated the loss of sales, particularly at the smaller end of our product range by 
concentrating planning and production on four bedroom homes and bungalows.  Sales of these products have 
been more achievable since potential buyers tend to have equity in their current homes.  
 
Until mortgages become more widely available, the market will continue to be difficult especially for those homes 
aimed at the first time buyer.   
 
Although Rippon Homes Limited, our residential development subsidiary, has been successful in gaining 
authority for properties to be sold under the Firstbuy scheme, take up has been slow largely due a lack of 
awareness of the scheme and its advantages.  This shared equity scheme, which is slowly winning acceptance, 
is a positive initiative from Government, 
 
We have also been able to open new sites that we have acquired since the market slowed and values fell.  These 
are proving attractive to customers and good margins are achievable.  Unfortunately our older stock tends to 
deliver lower profit margins.  Our objective is to trade through sites and then acquire new sites with higher 
potential margins.  However it will be some time before normal and sustainable market volumes are achievable.  
   
 
 4
 
Artisan (UK) plc 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
The market for commercial properties continues to be difficult: few customers are willing to commit to new 
properties currently and those who do feel no time pressure to complete a purchase.  Although there is an 
increasing shortage of good new or recently built stock available in the market and an extremely restricted 
development pipeline for any new stock built on a speculative basis, we believe we reflect the industry in not 
wishing to commit to new speculative build.  Factors other than uncertain demand are the punitive empty 
business rates regime on built units and the lack of debt funding available to developers to finance speculative 
stock. 
 
Forward lets are perhaps less difficult to achieve than forward sales as the funding burden remains with the 
developer, who can either retain the building as an investment or sell the completed unit to an investor.  As a 
consequence we have been seeing and are continuing to see a number of enquiries to commission new forward 
let buildings, usually at unit sizes greater than we would have developed on a speculative basis. The 
aforementioned agreement for a new office in Peterborough is a prime example of what can be achieved.  This 
has been secured on normal market terms as opposed to the discounted terms available for existing buildings, 
particularly second hand units. 
 
Stock Values 
We have once again very carefully considered our stock values, assessing what is appropriate in terms of 
potential realisation as developed units.  As part of our banking negotiations since the year end we have provided 
our bank with professional valuations prepared on the basis of disposal in the short term.  These valuations show 
that a disposal of our land and work in progress as opposed to finished stocks would attract lower values than 
those to be achieved through the development of the land and sale of the finished units.  The valuations do 
generally support our expected sales valuations to within a few percent, support our expected residential build 
costs and demonstrate that our commercial build costs are very competitive. 
 
Investment Division 
During the course of the year to 30 June 2011, the Board decided to pursue a disposal of the Black Teknigas unit 
at St Neots.  This was a more complicated sale because of a future development option that existed on the 
property.  The future development option was renegotiated to the mutual benefit of the tenant and landlord and a 
successful sale was concluded shortly after the year end in August 2011.  This transaction released 
approximately  1m to the Group's working capital and reduced bank indebtedness by approximately  2.25m.  
The working capital released will be useful to the Group's future development activities. 
 
Dividend 
The Board believes that it remains sensible to retain funds within the business whilst we await a return to normal 
trading conditions and better results.  We believe shareholders will recognise this approach as prudent.  
Accordingly, no dividend is recommended for the year.  In the future, when the Board do judge it correct to 
recommend a dividend, the Company will most likely need to apply for a capital reduction to extinguish the 
accrued negative reserves. 
 
Outlook 
An improvement in market conditions is needed to stimulate higher trading volumes, which in turn will lead to 
improved profitability.  We need to trade through old stock to then be able to recycle the funds for investment in 
current day priced land stocks.  A return to normal market volumes with a stable pricing background is more 
important to the Group than seeing any significant increase in property values.  Artisan produces well regarded 
product in both its residential and commercial development arms and has demonstrated flexibility and 
determination in grappling with harsh conditions for the sector and the economy.  We are well placed to capitalize 
on any market improvement. 
 
AIM listing and Share Capital 
Your Board has carefully considered whether it is of benefit to the shareholders as a whole to maintain the 
Group's AIM listing. The Board has concluded that the Group does not receive sufficient benefit from the AIM 
listing as compared with the costs of maintaining that listing and complying with the associated regulatory 
requirements.  In addition we have indicated that we expect there will be a requirement for new equity in the short 
term and the Board is of the view that of the existing shareholders this is only likely to be substantially provided 
by Aspen Finance Ltd as the major shareholder of the Company rather than from other shareholders in the 
Company.  
 
   
 
 5
 
Artisan (UK) plc 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
If the delisting is approved by shareholders, the Board has resolved to arrange for a matched bargain facility to 
be put in place initially for a year to allow shareholders the opportunity to trade their shareholdings. 
 
Consequently the Board has decided to put a resolution to the forthcoming General Meeting to delist from the 
AIM market.  The details are set out in the circular to shareholders.   
 
As part of the proposals to be put to the General Meeting is a resolution that the ordinary shares of the Company 
will be sub divided into ordinary and deferred shares.  Currently the ordinary shares of Artisan are trading at 
below nominal value and a sub division will allow for new shares to be issued at a market value below the 
existing nominal value. 
 
We expect to have shortly concluded the negotiations for new banking facilities which will allow us to move 
forward with more certainty.  I should also advise shareholders that it is part of the renegotiation of our banking 
facilities, that new equity or similar will be required as already referred to in this statement. 
 
We will also continue to explore any other opportunities that would allow us to improve the scale of the Group. 
 
Michael W Stevens 
Chairman 
20 December 2011 