 08
Ascent Resources Annual Review 2011
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report that 2011 saw Ascent 
make progress towards achieving its targeted 
step change in production and revenues and 
I remain confident that this will deliver the 
strategic aim of creating value for shareholders. 
Ascent's strategy is to build and progress a portfolio 
of principally onshore European hydrocarbon assets 
at various stages of the development cycle including 
production, development and exploration projects. 
The Company's focus is Europe where local gas 
market dynamics and prices are seen as remaining 
favourable for the foreseeable future. During 2011 
priority was given to those assets located in proven 
but undeveloped plays where the application of 
advanced technologies has the potential to transform 
projects previously considered to be uncommercial 
into profitable enterprises. This strategy has the 
potential to deliver considerable returns for investors, 
at acceptable levels of exploration and execution 
risk. Today, Ascent has a European-based portfolio 
that meets the Company's strict investment criteria 
including: ongoing production in Hungary, a 
substantially de-risked near-term production project in 
Slovenia and earlier stage redevelopment/exploration 
opportunities in Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands.
Much of our energies and focus during the year have 
been centred on the Slovenian part of our late stage 
Peti ovci/Lov szi tight gas project. Slovenia is a 
country dependent on imported gas with negligible 
domestic production. In 2010, 47% of its gas was 
supplied by Russia, 33% came from Algeria, 15% 
from Austria and 5% from Italy. Peti ovci is an 
undeveloped gas field that has previously produced 
gas. This places the project at the lower end of the 
exploration risk spectrum and thereby satisfies one 
of our key investment requirements. Modern drilling 
techniques such as hydraulic fracture stimulation can 
be applied to enhance recovery and flow rates and 
make Peti ovci commercially viable. At the time of 
last year's report, the project had an independently 
verified P50 gas-in-place estimate for the entire 
project of 412 Bcf. (11.7 Bm
3
; 68.7 MMboe). The 
challenge we set ourselves for 2011 was to learn 
more about the geology of Peti ovci through drilling 
that, subject to satisfactory results, would lead to 
an increase in resources and enable us to draw up 
a detailed plan of action to optimise the commercial 
recovery of hydrocarbons from the field. In addition, 
whilst ambitious, we were hoping to be in a position 
to commence production by the end of the year.
Over the course of 2011 we worked hard and made 
substantial progress in the project despite technical 
setbacks and an asset that proved more complex 
than expected. We have answered many of the key 
questions surrounding the gas field, specifically regarding 
potentially recoverable gas volumes and flow rates 
which have proved up the commercial potential. We 
drilled three wells at Peti ovci during the year. We also 
carried out hydraulic fracture stimulation treatments on 
two of these wells to test gas flow rates and the results 
from both were positive. Subject to the construction 
of pipeline connections to link the producing wells in 
the project to the national pipeline network, a carbon 
dioxide ( CO
2
') removal plant and other ancilliary 
equipment. Peti ovci is now ready to commence 
production. It had been hoped that production would 
come on stream by the end of 2011, but this target 
date had to be extended into 2012 as significantly 
more work was needed than had first been envisaged 
to achieve the required commercial flow rates.
The work programme confirmed the commercial viability 
of the project and the three wells drilled resulted in RPS 
Energy Group plc ( RPS'), an independent consultant, 
significantly increasing gas-in-place estimates to 
504 Bcf, a 22% increase on their previous figure. 
The large amount of data we have acquired has 
greatly added to our understanding of the geology 
at Peti ovci which provides scope for upgrades in 
the future, subject to further exploratory work being 
carried out. We commissioned Petroleum Development 
Consultants ( PDC') to produce a detailed study of 
the expected commercial potential of the Peti ovci 
project, which includes analysis of local supply and 
demand for gas, evaluation of the transport network 
and infrastructure, pricing, production and development 
expectations. PDC's report supports our belief that 
Peti ovci will prove to be a highly profitable investment 
for our shareholders. So, armed with this and the 
results of our work programme, our immediate priority 
is to start producing gas at the site later in 2012.
Going forward we believe that production at the field 
will come in two phases. The first will be using the 
existing infrastructure and a new CO
2 
removal plant 
that we plan to build in 2012. This should enable us 
John Kenny
Chairman 09
Chairman's Statement
to produce up to 7 MMscfd of gas. In the second 
phase we plan a full scale field development with 
between 30 and 40 more wells being drilled over the 
next decade. The cash flow projections remain strong 
which provides me with the comfort that we have 
every opportunity to deliver value to shareholders. 
The main task in hand is moving Peti ovci into 
production but our earlier stage assets will play an 
increasingly key role in Ascent's portfolio as we look to 
further build the Company's reserves and production 
levels. These assets therefore hold considerable latent 
value which we intend to realise fully in the years ahead. 
During 2011, activity on our earlier stage assets 
in Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands was 
limited and centred on securing the appropriate 
permits and licence extensions. In Switzerland, 
drilling and wellsite construction permits have now 
been received by the operator eCORP European 
International Ltd ( eCORP') and in the Netherlands 
a licence extension has been granted.
The Swiss project is an example of how we look to take 
out as much risk as possible from oil and gas exploration 
and production. An oil and gas discovery was made on 
the licence area in 1982, but this was unexploited due 
to the low prevailing price of gas at that time as well as a 
lack of pipeline infrastructure. We de-risked this project 
following the sale of our 90% interest to eCORP in 
April 2010 for B8 million, whilst retaining a 45% back-in 
right on any success with three conventional appraisal 
prospects and a 22.5% back-in right for a further three 
secondary conventional prospects for apportioned cost. 
Whilst our development and exploration assets rightly 
take up the lion's share of this report our 48.8% held 
producing asset, the Pen szlek project in Hungary, 
continues to generate revenues, albeit on a small and 
declining trend. The field has been producing for over 
3 years and another sidetrack well, PEN-105A, has 
recently been successfully drilled to provide a boost 
to production and bring gross revenues generated 
to the joint venture back up to around B300,000 per 
month. The decline in production is in line with our 
expectations and previous announcements. The 
field will, over the next couple of years, become fully 
depleted but the lost output will be more than offset by 
production at Peti ovci when this comes on stream. 
During 2011, we acquired an additional 48.75% 
interest in the Peti ovci Project from EnQuest PLC 
( EnQuest'), increasing our stake to 75%. As a result 
of the deal, EnQuest became the largest shareholder 
in Ascent and currently holds a 15.69% interest 
in the Company. Following the transaction with 
EnQuest in February last year, Graham Cooper was 
appointed as a Non-executive Director. Graham 
is Head of Business Development at EnQuest, 
having previously been a Vice President of Global 
Exploration at Shell. As a trained geologist he 
brings valuable experience to the Board and his 
appointment underpins EnQuest's support of Ascent's 
management. EnQuest have and continue to be 
very supportive shareholders and provide us with 
access to their considerable technical expertise.
Whilst not without some disappointments, 2011 
was very much a year of solid progress for Ascent 
and I am pleased with the milestones achieved in 
bringing a game-changing asset nearer to production. 
2011 has laid the foundations for the Company but 
I recognise that we have much to achieve in 2012, 
not least the requirement for a significant upwards 
shift in production and revenue generation which I 
expect once the late stage Peti ovci project starts 
producing. The recently announced signing of a 
B15 million facility with BNP Paribas (Suisse) SA 
( BNPP') has been a huge achievement, one which 
we have been working towards for some time.  It 
should provide us with enough capital in Slovenia 
to reach production, our key near-term milestone 
as a Group.  We worked hard for a solution that 
minimised dilution on shareholders and should 
maximise your return.  I think this is an excellent 
result which also provides third party validation of the 
potential we have with Peti ovci.  I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank all our employees for their 
dedication and efforts and also our shareholders for 
the patience they have shown over the last twelve 
months.  Hydrocarbon exploration and development 
is not an exact science with timetables often having 
to be extended. Crucially though, key targets have 
been met at Peti ovci and as a result we remain 
on course to generate value for shareholders. 
John Kenny
29 May 2012
Over the course 
of 2011 we 
worked hard 
to substantially 
progress the 
project [in 
Peti ovci] 
despite technical 
setbacks and 
an asset that 
proved more 
complex than 
expected.  