 4
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
It has been a year of significant growth for the Group. We have expanded our market presence in the Asia Pacific 
and Middle East regions as well as strengthening our existing businesses in the UK and Europe. With a number of 
new quality professionals welcomed during the year we are confident that the team we now have in place has the 
skills, experience, creativity and drive to deliver our ambitions. 
The Group has made outstanding progress in the year under review. Revenues of  24.4 million is almost three times higher 
than in the previous year while gross profit of  11.2 million is approximately 2.5 times that reported by the Group in 2012. 
More importantly, the Group achieved positive earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation ( EBITDA') 
of approximately  0.65 million in the final quarter of the financial year after all exceptional costs including start-ups.
It was always the intention to form a profitable marketing and communications group that offered a fully integrated service 
on an international basis, built predominantly by start-up operations and the Board now feels that this initial strategy has 
been successfully completed and it is now looking to strengthen and build critical mass where needed by way of 
acquisitions. While there will still be some start-up costs as those planned for in Qatar and mainland China (Beijing and 
Shanghai), where we will shortly be advertising for suitable executives, the thrust in the current year will be from a more 
noticeable balance between organic and acquisition growth.
Most parts of the Group showed strong growth throughout the year, with a number of significant new business wins but 
it was in the final quarter of the financial year, particularly on the public relations side, that the business really gained 
momentum reflecting a buoyant stock market in new issues. This trend has continued into the current year.
The Board does not believe that the size of the reported loss indicates the efforts and progress made over the year. In this 
respect, to give an operational view of the progress made and the prospects for the current year, a number of one-off costs 
have been identified by the Board as follows:
 Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 
    
EBITDA from continuing operations (1,894,670) (4,083,122)
Start-up losses* 2,160,125 1,539,155
Acquisition costs 64,069 197,165
Restructuring costs 337,441 79,000
Legal and professional consultancy costs 485,859 1,676,167
Share option expense  99,678 69,998
Bad debt expense 124,707 -
Adjusted headline EBITDA 1,377,209 (521,637)
EPS based on continuing operations (2.0p) (5.3p)
EPS based on adjusted headline EBITDA 1.0p (0.6p)
* For the purposes of the above analysis, start-up losses are defined as the net operating result in the period of entities which are organically started businesses. 
Such businesses so defined will cease being separately defined at the earlier of two years from the commencement of the activity or when the activities show 
evidence of becoming sustainably profitable.
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2013 5
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Communications 
Newgate Communications, the global public relations brand, 
had an exceptional year of growth, with the start-ups in Australia, 
Hong Kong and Singapore making a significant impact to the 
fast-expanding global brand. In London the success in winning 
a number of IPO mandates both at the end of 2013 and well 
into 2014 has meant that the merger of Newgate Threadneedle 
with the other financial teams has been a great success. 
Since the year end Porta has acquired a 51 per cent stake in 
Redleaf Polhill Limited ( Redleaf') for  1.795 million, with an 
option to acquire the minority holding over the next three 
years on similar terms to the initial consideration. Redleaf will 
remain as an independent brand within the Porta Group. 
More pleasing is that the integration of our international public 
relations activities, covering financial, corporate, public affairs 
and consumer is gaining traction and we are now being 
asked to pitch for some very large international mandates.
The division also includes Project 13 Communications Limited 
( Thirteen'), a start-up business that began operations in the 
fourth quarter of 2013, offering a broad range of consultancy 
services in the consumer and corporate public relations sector. 
The Group increased its holding in Thirteen from 30%, the initial 
stake the Group received in exchange for start-up capital, to 
51% by the payment of  350,000 which was satisfied by the 
issue of 2,692,300 ordinary shares of 10p each in the Group at 
a price of 13p per share. The Group' s plan for ownership was 
brought forward due to the success that Thirteen 
demonstrated in the volume of cross-selling with Newgate.
During the year the number of clients in the public relations 
division grew from 150 in 2012 to 275 as at 31 December 2013.
Hong Kong 
The Newgate Communications (HK) Limited start-up, 
operating under the Newgate brand and managed by a 
team recruited from another agency, was operational for 
much of 2013, although initially some of the key executives 
were operating under tough restrictive covenants. Despite 
this, and very tough market conditions they have performed 
very well winning some attractive new clients in addition to 
winning a number of their previous clients once their 
covenants had lapsed. The management of this office will be 
responsible for our move into China and they will bear the 
start-up costs in Beijing and Shanghai in the current year.
Singapore
The office in Singapore (Newgate Communications Singapore 
Pte Limited), also operating under the Newgate brand, did not 
become operational until June when the new team became 
free from their restrictive covenants. Since then the team have 
won a significant amount of all new business opportunities 
presented to them despite a highly competitive market. All of 
our major competition see Singapore as their launch pad into 
the Asia-Pacific region and have recently opened offices. 
However we feel that our success will be driven by the quality 
of our local management team.
Australia
The Australian operation (Newgate Communications Pty 
Limited), for the same reason as in Singapore, did not 
commence trading until June but since then the growth has 
been impressive. The start-up costs were larger than we 
had anticipated, but the performance is ahead of 
management expectations. With a strong management 
team and 40 people, operating from offices in Sydney, 
Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane the company has gone 
from strength to strength and is expected to be the largest 
profits contributor in 2014. They have just won the second 
phase of the MediBank privatisation where fees of around 
A$2,400,000 are currently expected. In addition they are 
now picking up some very large M&A projects.
Marketing and Advertising 
This division comprises Twenty20 Media Vision ( TTMV'), the 
Group's consumer advertising agency, which was acquired 
in 2012 and then merged with a subsequent acquisition, 
WFCA, based in Tunbridge Wells. Also included are the two 
start-up operations, 21:12 the financial services advertising 
agency, and 24-7 the in-house 24 hour studio. These two 
businesses were integrated along with the direct marketing 
start-up Crazy Horse (re-branded 21:12 Direct Marketing). 
TTMV had a very good start and finish to the year, despite 
incurring a bad debt in December and some very quiet trading 
months in the summer. 21:12 has taken longer than expected 
to make a positive contribution, but with a number of very big 
client wins, a substantial improvement is expected in 2014.
Both TTMV and 21:12 require more critical mass to make a 
meaningful contribution going forward and the Group Board 
are actively looking for profitable bolt-on acquisitions where 
there are clear synergies with our existing operations. The 
process has already started at 21:12 following the March 
2014 acquisitions of two operations from WSM 
Communications Group Limited. These include a print 
management company and a digital agency, which is 
already working on six internal projects.
Outlook
In addition to the plans for the marketing and advertising division 
described above, the Board believes that the Group needs to 
continue to expand its geographical coverage in Germany, 
France, India and North America. The Board has already 
identified potential acquisition targets in each of these areas. 
Within the UK we are also looking to build upon our successful 
consumer agency start-up Thirteen. 
The first three months have started as buoyantly as the final 
quarter of 2013 and the Board remains confident of delivering 
continued strong growth for the remainder of the current year. 
Bob Morton & David Wright 
Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer
27 May 2014