 Valerie Gooding, CBE  
Non-Executive Chairman
@premierfarnell - I am confident that the Group, with 
its strong executive leadership, has the right strategy.
Strategy and performance
This year saw a slowdown in the recovery of the global 
economy, with many regions around the world experiencing 
increased levels of uncertainty in the macro environment. 
The volatile economic nature of 2012 in turn affected the end 
markets in which Premier Farnell operates. However, through 
the execution of our strategy to focus on the Electronic Design 
Engineering (EDE) sector, the more profitable segments 
within the Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO) sector, 
the web and the world's developing markets, the Group 
has proven to be resilient and agile, as Harriet Green, Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO), covers in detail on pages 4 to 13 
of this report. 
By pursuing our strategy for profitable growth, accelerating 
the transformation of our cost base to drive cost efficiency 
and investing in our proposition, the Group still delivered 
sales growth in 2012. Group sales this year were up 1.6% 
on the prior year, on a like-for-like basis, with a healthy return 
on sales of 11.0% - which continues to be a feature of our 
ability to deliver industry leading returns through the cycle. 
In considering this performance, together with both the level 
of earnings and cash requirements of the Group, the Board 
is recommending a final dividend of 6.0 pence per share. 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
on 12 June 2012, this will bring the full year dividend to 
10.4 pence per share, unchanged from last year. 
This year has seen us continue to make progress towards 
our strategic and financial targets. Communicating our 
performance accurately, in a consistent manner, ensures all 
our stakeholders can keep track of our progress with ease, 
using the same metrics that we use internally to assess our 
performance. The performance against our key performance 
indicators (KPIs) is outlined on pages 18 and 19 of this report. 
Further detail on our business model and the strategies for 
delivering those objectives are set out on page 38 and pages 
44 to 47 of the Business review. 
Innovation
2012 has been a year that has seen us make positive progress 
towards realising our vision of becoming the trusted global 
source for engineering solutions. December 2011 saw us 
announce our intention to acquire technology company, 
Embest, as well as the signing of our partnership with ARM, 
a global leader at the forefront of many of today's electronic 
design solutions and the release of the latest version of 
CadSoft's EAGLE software. These three developments alone 
clearly demonstrate the pace at which the Group is pursuing 
this vision, a subject which is outlined further on page 23 of 
this report. Harnessing creativity from across the organisation 
to breed new innovations and bring the element14 brand to 
life has been a feature of the last 12 months. We have made 
over 100 new enhancements to our web capabilities, while 
the Knode, an intelligent online search and knowledge tool, our 
online TV channel, element14 TV and the element14 Innovation 
Series were all created this year from our innovative culture. 
Financial position
Our financial position remains robust, with good liquidity 
and strong free cash flow, with cash conversion at 102.7%. 
In November, we successfully refinanced, with a five-year 
 200 million revolving bank facility. In addition, we further 
strengthened our balance sheet by issuing $235 million of 
five to ten year US Private Placement Notes. This funding will 
reduce the cost of borrowing over the medium term, providing 
Welcome 
from the new 
Chairman
2
Premier Farnell  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSI n ESS REvIEW GOvERn An CE FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS us with funding security to execute our strategy with 
confidence and the opportunity to reduce existing, more 
expensive debt. In addition, our disposal of TPC Wire & Cable 
and Newark's calibration laboratories during the year further 
strengthened the Group's financial position. 
The Board is confident that the Group's balance sheet 
provides a stable and long term funding platform for the 
business as we enter this new financial year. 
Governance and the Board
This year has been a year of change for Premier Farnell's 
Board. I was appointed as Chairman in June, following Sir 
Peter Gershon's retirement. Peter left an outstanding legacy 
at Premier Farnell, having formed and led a strong Board. 
We were further strengthened when Nicholas Cadbury was 
appointed Chief Financial Officer in September following the 
departure of Mark Whiteling. I would like to thank both Peter 
and Mark for their substantial contributions to Premier Farnell. 
Nicholas and I have greatly enjoyed our personalised 
inductions to the Group: meeting shareholders, learning 
about the businesses, getting to know senior managers 
and high-performers and visiting facilities as diverse as sales 
offices in Germany and China and distribution centres in 
Singapore and the USA. I have been particularly impressed 
by the unfailing appetite for innovation and the commitment 
to engagement I have seen at all levels throughout the Group. 
As Chairman it is my job to lead the Board and ensure its 
effectiveness. The Board has a full schedule of meetings, 
presentations, training sessions, papers and time spent one to 
one between the Executives and the Non-Executive Directors 
to ensure that the Board functions effectively, stays informed 
and knows the business and its people in depth. The breadth 
of issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated on 
page 84. The mentoring relationships established between 
Board members and senior management are a testament 
to the Group's open and inclusive approach and benefit 
Board members and managers alike. 
This is the first year we have reported on full compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. We welcomed 
its publication last year and this year we engaged an external 
facilitator to help us in our annual review of the Board's 
effectiveness as a high-performing Board. The insights 
gained enriched the individual evaluations carried out later 
in the year in a spirit of openness, team-work and healthy 
challenge. The outcome of this evaluation process is set 
out in the Corporate governance report on page 87.
Having now spent considerable time working with the other 
members of the Board and the Company's key personnel, 
I am confident that the Group, with its strong executive 
leadership, has the right strategy and is responding to the 
uncertain environment with the agility that will enable it to 
continue to drive profitable growth and ensure its long term 
success.
Diversity
As a leader in business diversity we continue to recognise 
the benefits of diversity in the workforce and, while we 
will continue to make all appointments based on the best 
candidate for the role, our medium term target is for women 
to make up 30% of management grade employees. The 
Company is well on the way to achieving this, with women 
representing 27% of the Executive Directors and their direct 
report population. Furthermore, the Group's Board itself 
has achieved the 2015 goal of 25% female membership, 
as recommended for FTSE 100 companies by Lord Davies 
earlier this year. We recognise that it is not just gender diversity 
that supports the strength and future success of the business 
and we remain focused on achieving the right level of diversity 
whether related to ethnicity, gender, creed or culture. 
Our employees
As a new chairman, I have sought to gain as broad as 
possible an exposure to, and understanding of, Premier 
Farnell's business and its employees. Having observed the 
senior team at work and met many of my new colleagues, 
I have been impressed by the level of talent that exists at 
and below the senior executive team, and in particular by 
the innovation culture that is very apparent at all levels. I am 
proud of all 4,400 employees across the Group for the way 
they have handled and adapted to the challenges and change 
of 2012. I express my sincere thanks to all our colleagues for 
the warm welcome I have experienced and the commitment 
and support they continue to display. 
Outlook
Nobody can predict with any confidence what will happen 
to global economies in the coming year and there remain 
financial instabilities across the world. However, despite 
the challenging economic environment, Premier Farnell has 
proven through the execution of its strategy it can consistently 
deliver industry leading returns through the cycle. 
We remain cautious on the economic outlook as markets 
continue to be uncertain and the nature of our business 
gives us limited forward visibility. However, under the guidance 
of the Board, strong executive leadership and with a proven 
strategy, I believe we are well positioned to capitalise on 
growth opportunities in the coming year to the benefit of 
our shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.
Valerie	 Gooding,	 CBE	
Chairman
3
Premier Farnell  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSI n ESS REvIEW GOvERn An CE FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS