 8
Premier Farnell  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
Financial performance
Although there was stabilisation this year from the volatile economic 
conditions seen in our 2011/12 financial year, short term business 
confidence remains fragile. 
Premier Farnell's strategic focus on optimising business performance 
has allowed us to deliver its financial results this year. The Group managed 
gross margins in line with the market conditions, while active management 
of costs provided some protection to the business's profitability. This 
enabled the Group to achieve an industry leading operating margin of 
10.1%. Despite these actions, the weaker sales environment impacted 
the Group's adjusted operating profit, which declined 7 .8% year-on-year. 
Although market conditions have been challenging, our financial position 
remains robust. The Group has good liquidity and strong free cash flow, 
with cash conversion at 125.3% and net debt reducing by  7 .5 million in 
the year to  229.6 million. The Board is confident that the Group's balance 
sheet provides a stable and long term funding platform for the business 
as we enter this new financial year.
Premier Farnell's strategic focus on 
optimising business performance has 
allowed us to deliver its financial results  
this year.
In considering this year's performance, together with both the level of 
earnings and cash requirements of the Group, the Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 6.0 pence per share. Subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) on 18 June 2013, this will bring the full year 
dividend to 10.4 pence per share, unchanged from last year. 
Strategic progress 
Over the past six years, through variable market conditions, Premier 
Farnell's strategy has allowed the business to make progress for the benefit 
of its stakeholders. The Board constantly reviews the effectiveness of our 
strategy and our performance to consider how we can optimise the 
business to deliver the greatest benefit to our stakeholders. With a new 
Executive leadership team in place and with the support of the Global 
Executive Team, the Board has looked to ensure that the strategy has 
evolved in order to maximise our performance and capitalise on the areas 
of greatest opportunity in the changing world in which we live. This strategy 
is centred on three core pillars:
First, we will focus on customer centric segments of the electronics market 
with even greater emphasis on listening to our customers' needs and 
partnering closely with our suppliers as together they are fundamental 
to all that we do. 
Valerie Gooding, CBE  
Non-Executive Chairman
Whilst remaining responsive to the challenging conditions in our 
markets this year, Premier Farnell has been focused on its two 
principal strategic goals: the continuous improvement of our high 
service proposition for our customers and suppliers, alongside the 
ongoing evolution of our business to support the long term 
interests of all our stakeholders. 9
Premier Farnell  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements
Secondly, we will continue to evolve our differentiating multichannel 
capability to tailor our customer relationships to their needs and continue 
to enhance the efficiency of our model. 
Finally, we will continue to internationalise our model with focus on the 
fastest growing emerging markets. 
These focus areas, which are described in more detail on pages 16 to 23, 
will ensure that no matter where our customers are based around the 
world, design engineers, academics, purchasing professionals or 
customers conducting maintenance and repair on existing electronics will 
have even more reasons to choose Premier Farnell. The Board believes 
that through the implementation of its strategic vision the Group is well 
placed to leverage its expertise and infrastructure to make further progress 
in all markets in the years ahead. 
Measuring our performance
As part of the development of our strategy, we have refined the Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) by which we believe the business should 
be measured through the economic cycles. These metrics underpin our 
focus on optimising our business's performance to drive growth, efficiency, 
profitability and cash flow - the areas that we believe matter most to all 
our stakeholders. 
The Board believes that the success of Premier Farnell's strategy should 
be measured on a long term view, while managed in relation to market 
conditions to optimise performance. Following consultation with 
stakeholders, the Company will move from quarterly to half year reporting, 
in line with the spirit of the Kay Review and reflecting wider UK market 
practice. We continue to encourage an open and transparent dialogue 
with all our stakeholders. 
In his review, starting on page 10, Laurence Bain, Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) explains the changes in more detail while our performance against 
our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) is outlined on pages 14 and 15 of 
this report.
Governance and the Board
During the course of the year, the Board was pleased to appoint Laurence 
Bain and Mark Whiteling as CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), 
respectively. Laurence and Mark bring a wealth of experience of the 
electronics industry to their roles and their knowledge of Premier Farnell 
and its stakeholders has enabled an exceptionally smooth transition period. 
Having joined the Group in 2002 as Chief Operating Officer (COO), 
Laurence has been a Board member since 2003 while Mark was Premier 
Farnell's CFO from 2006 to 2011. During this time, Laurence and Mark held 
key roles in developing the Company's strategy and worked closely in its 
implementation. Together, they are well placed to continue Premier Farnell's 
strategic evolution to optimise profitable growth. 
Mark and Laurence are supported by a strong Global Executive Team 
(GET) which meets regularly and enhances the business's collaborative 
approach. Members of the GET are mentored by Non-Executive Board 
members, demonstrating the Group's open and inclusive approach. 
Further information on the GET is provided on page 37 . 
The Board is grateful to Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury, previously CEO 
and CFO respectively, for the contributions they made to Premier Farnell.
As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness. 
The Board has a full schedule of meetings, presentations, training sessions, 
papers and time spent one-to-one between the Executives and the 
Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the Board functions effectively, 
stays informed and knows the business and its people in depth. 
The breadth of issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated on 
page 42. In addition, Non-Executive Directors have conducted site visits 
to eight global locations around our businesses, including my visits to Italy, 
China, Singapore and our Distribution Centres in the US and Belgium. 
Whilst undertaking these visits, I have continued to be impressed by the 
culture of innovation that exists across the Group as employees work 
together to achieve our goal of being a high-performing, customer 
focused organisation. 
This year, the Board appointed an independent party to evaluate the 
Board's effectiveness as a high performing Board, in line with the 
requirements of the Corporate Governance Code. The insights gained, 
which are already enriching the Board, are detailed in the Corporate 
Governance report on page 44. 
Diversity
As a leader in business diversity with two European awards this past 
year, we continue to recognise the benefits of diversity in the workforce 
and, while we will continue to make all appointments based on the 
best candidate for the role, our goal is for women to make up 30% of 
management grade employees. With women representing 27% of the 
combined GET and Board population, Premier Farnell is well on its way 
to achieving this goal. As a global business, we recognise that it is not 
just gender diversity that supports the strength and future success of the 
business and we remain focused on achieving the right level of diversity 
whether related to ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, creed or culture.
Employees
This year we have refreshed the core values that underpin our strategy 
and guide our behaviour and we have embedded them throughout the 
organisation. The details of our core values are provided on page 1 of 
this Report. Throughout this challenging year, our 4,400 employees have 
shown a remarkable focus in driving towards their targets and goals and 
I would like to thank them for their efforts. Their commitment to putting 
our core values into action can be seen throughout the business, uniting 
our teams around the globe and shaping every aspect of how we work 
together for the benefit of all our stakeholders. 
Outlook
Although the macro-economic outlook continues to be uncertain in the 
near term, we remain positive on the Group's ability to implement our 
strategic vision and optimise the business's performance to grow our active 
customer base and market share and drive our financial performance in the 
year ahead. Under the guidance of the Board, strong executive leadership 
and with an enhanced strategic focus, I believe Premier Farnell is well 
positioned to capitalise on its extensive opportunities throughout the 
coming economic cycles to the benefit of our shareholders, employees, 
customers and suppliers.
Valerie Gooding, CBE
Chairman