 Chairman's statement
2008 has been a challenging year for premier Foods. Our 
share price fell from 204 pence to 30 pence over the year as 
the stock market became concerned over our debt position 
and related covenant and repayment terms, given the 
collapse in the credit markets. 
this debt position was largely created by the acquisition 
of RHm, our inability to sell non-core assets in the 2008 
financial climate, and our higher working capital needs 
as a result of raw material inflation. the RHm acquisition 
however is, strategically and commercially, a success, and 
the realisation of synergies, an important achievement. 
During 2008 we have experienced a substantially more 
challenging trading, economic and credit environment.  
t he significant cost inflation that occurred in the second half 
of 2007 and first three quarters of 2008 due to commodity 
price increases required the Group to seek significant price 
increases, whilst in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 
the financial markets and the broader economic backdrop 
deteriorated significantly, putting consumer confidence  
and spending into a marked decline.
In view of the volatile operating conditions and the Group's 
significant level of leverage following the acquisitions of 
Campbell's and RHm, the Board and its advisors have spent 
recent months examining ways of accelerating the reduction  
of Group debt in order to establish additional financial headroom 
and a more appropriate long-term capital structure. 
the potential disposals of certain businesses have been  
explored as a means of providing additional financial headroom.  
However, against the backdrop of current market conditions, 
the ability to achieve valuations that would materially reduce 
the Group's leverage has been limited and we have only 
implemented certain small disposals.
Following discussions with our lending banks and considering 
the potential for the credit environment to remain difficult, 
the Board concluded that raising additional equity combined 
with a renegotiated agreement with our lending banks and 
an agreement with our Defined Benefit pension plans would 
be the optimal route to move to a more appropriate capital 
structure and achieve the desired increase in financial 
headroom given the more challenging trading environment.
we announced on 5 march 2009 that the Company proposes 
to undertake a placing and open offer and a firm placing to 
raise approximately  379 million (net of expenses related 
to the equity financing) through the issue of 1,553,416,776 
new Ordinary shares at an issue price of 26 pence per new 
Ordinary share. 
We announced on 5 March 2009 
that the Company proposes to 
undertake a placing and open 
offer and a firm placing to raise 
approximately  379 million.
We believe that the support for 
the placing and open offer and 
firm placing from both existing 
shareholders and new investors 
represents an important 
endorsement of premier's long-
term strategy and vision, and 
underscores the confidence of 
these institutions in premier  
and in its management team.
David J Kappler
Chairman we believe that the support for the placing and open offer 
and firm placing from both existing shareholders and 
new investors represents an important endorsement of 
premier's long-term strategy and vision, and underscores 
the confidence of these institutions in premier and in its 
management team. In addition the open offer structure 
allows existing shareholders to participate in the issue of the 
open offer shares on a pre-emptive basis while providing the 
Group with the flexibility to raise the necessary quantum of 
equity capital.
Full details of the placing and open offer and firm placing are 
set out in the prospectus sent to shareholders on 5 march 2009.
dividends
As announced on 18 November 2008, the Board considered 
it appropriate to suspend dividend payments. the Board is 
committed to resuming dividend payments when possible 
but the future payment of dividends will be dependent 
upon the Company's ability to reduce its level of debt, the 
limitations on dividends imposed by the Group's proposed 
amended debt agreements and the condition of the credit 
markets at the relevant time.
overview of year
we have made significant progress with our integration 
programme. this is targeted to deliver  113 million of 
annual cost synergies largely through consolidating 
administration functions and manufacturing facilities 
and increased procurement efficiency. this integration 
programme remains on track to deliver the targeted 
synergies in full from 2010. the total net cost of the 
integration programme is anticipated to be  203 million 
after accounting for the proceeds from the disposal of 
surplus properties. At 31 December 2008,  178 million  
of this expenditure had been incurred with the majority  
of the remaining  25 million expected to be incurred  
during 2009 and 2010.
the implementation of SAp, the enterprise resource 
planning software system, is progressing well with the 
implementation of orders to cash in the Grocery division 
now complete. Another key element of the transformation 
programme was the factory rationalisation. this has 
now been completed with nine factories closed, ahead of 
schedule, in 12 months.
we have been successful in recovering cost inflation through 
a combination of pricing and cost cutting. 
During 2008 the Hovis range was relaunched, with improved 
recipes, new packaging, a new range of 400 gram loaves 
and a major new tv advertising campaign. As a result Hovis' 
total market share grew by 2.4 percentage points to 24.7% 
between August 2008 and January 2009.
Despite the challenging trading, economic and credit 
environment the business has continued to perform well and  
has delivered sales of  2,603.6m up 22.5% and trading profit of  
 310.2m up 14.1% on last year (on a continuing operations basis).
2008 2008 2008
 2,603.6m
*
  +22.5%
t urnover (2007:  2,125.2m)
 310.2m
*
  +14. 1%
t rading profit (2007:  271.9m)
 1 ,572.2m
*
  60.4% 
Branded turnover  of total turnover
*Continuing operations 
05 Annual report and accounts 2008 Premier Foods plc For more information: www.premierfoods.co.uk
o verview of the year Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chairman's statement
Continued
divisional structure
As part of the Company's transformation programme we 
have organised the business into three divisions and 2008 
will be the first year we report our full year results on this 
basis:
G r o c e r y 	 H o v i s 	 C h i l l e d 	 & 	 I r e l a n d
Comprising the shelf  Comprising wrapped Comprising chilled 
stable or   ambient''  bread, morning  and frozen meat-free 
grocery products  goods and bulk and products, operations 
 bagged flour in the Republic of 
  Ireland and retailer 
  brand chilled ready 
  meal and cake 
  businesses.
disposals
In January 2009 we announced that we had received firm 
offers for our Speciality Bakery Group in France which 
employs around 1,250 people in France and the UK. this 
includes martine Sp cialit s SAS which produces retailer 
branded frozen patisserie products and Sofrapain SAS 
and le pain Croustillant who produce retailer branded 
part baked frozen bakery products principally for major 
multiple retailers in the UK and France. the sales of le pain 
Croustillant and martine Sp cialit s SAS completed on 2 
march 2009 with completion of the sale of Sofrapain SAS 
expected during the second quarter of 2009. these disposals 
are consistent with our strategy of investing behind our UK 
branded business. 
employees
t his has been another challenging year for employees, 
particularly against the backdrop of the worsening economic 
and trading climate and the fall in the Company's share price. 
t he successful completion of the factory integration and the 
ongoing implementation of SAp have clearly demonstrated the 
dedication and commitment of staff and their ability to work 
together effectively across the combined Group.
we introduced the premier Employee Recognition Award 
in 2008 to recognise and reward the skill, dedication and 
creativity of employees who are helping the Company to 
deliver its strategy. 
Board changes
In June we welcomed tim Kelly to the Board as an additional 
executive director. tim joined premier Foods in march 2007 
following the Company's acquisition of RHm, where he was 
Chief Operating Officer, Cakes & Customer partnerships. In 
December 2007 he assumed additional responsibility for the 
Hovis Baking and milling businesses. t im has had significant 
and varied experience in consumer goods markets. 
outlook
Current trading is in line with our expectations and we 
believe that our brands will continue to be resilient in the 
difficult economic environment. Food inflation, although 
at lower levels than in 2007 and 2008 remains a concern, 
particularly due to the effect of the weakening of sterling. 
t he remaining elements of the integration programme are 
expected to be completed in 2009. In February we opened  
the new group-wide shared service centre in manchester  
(a platform which will enable the full benefits of the SAp ERp 
system to be realised) and the roll out of SAp to the ambient 
cake business is on track for April. In addition we intend to 
complete the reorganisation of the Grocery logistics network 
and the realisation of additional procurement synergies.
Following the completion of this transformation programme, 
we intend to shift the focus of the Group from cost reduction to 
sales growth in order to drive long-term growth in profitability. 
Going forward, we intend to leverage our broad range of 
category capabilities and brand strength, coupled with the 
insight we have into UK consumer behaviour and needs, to 
drive revenue growth in the business.
David J Kappler
Chairman 
5 march 2009
Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 06 For more information: www.premierfoods.co.uk