 Pressfit Holdings Plc 1 
Chairman's statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
HIGHLIGHTS  
-  The Company entered into a strategic partnership arrangement with AMCOPRESS Group which is 
a group of associated companies engaged in the research, manufacturing and distribution of metal 
pressfittings targeting global markets. As part of the deal, one of AMCOPRESS Group companies, 
GXM (AMCOPRESS) GROUP CO., LIMITED (AMCOPRESS ) had lent GBP877,756.65 as 
convertible loan to the Company and the convertible loan was converted into Company' equity in 
late Sep 2013 as the Company started appointments of advisers for the application of admission on 
London AIM market. AMCOPRESS subscribed 14,249,296 new Company shares at 6.2 pence per 
share and became the single largest shareholder of the Company, holding 31.4% of the Company's 
share capital. Apart from the funding, AMCOPRESS also provides guaranteed sales to the Company 
in the amount of at least GBP1.5m for the calendar year 2014. 
- The Board was pleased to welcome Mr. Siu Wai Eric NG, founder of the AMCOPRESS Group, to 
be appointed a Director of the Company and Mr Ng's vast experience in the metal pressfitting 
business will contribute to the success of the Company in the following years to come. 
- In 2013, the Company successfully launched its carbon steel pressfitting products with exports to a 
European client while the preparation for the larger diameter pressfittings continued. 
- The Company further expanded its sales in Europe, Singapore and started to receive domestic sales 
order from China based clients. We have also seen restocking orders from our UK based distributor 
as pressfittings started to gain popularity in water and gas industries. 
- The Group registered a revenue of  142,000 (2012: Revenue  251,000) and a pre-tax loss of 
 643,000 (2012: Pre-tax loss  268,000) was registered in 2013. Substantial portion of the loss for 
2013 due to the costs of restarting operations in Zhuhai City, accrued interest expenses and idle costs 
resulting from the factory operating below capacity in the year. 
  
I am pleased to report on the results of Pressfit Holdings plc (the Company, the Group or Pressfit) 
for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
 
As reported in last year's report after the disruption to operations and sales initiatives caused by the plant 
relocation, the Company was actively engaging potential investors to support Pressfit in its next phase of 
growth to launch the business in full scale with sufficient inventory, completed larger diameter product 
ranges and additional country and industrial certifications. After the successful introduction of AIM listed 
Craven House Capital Plc (CRV ) as the Company's strategic investor in 2012, the partnership 
arrangement with GXM (AMCOPRESS) Group Co. Limited will enable the Company to aggressively 
pursue its goal to become the listed global market leader in the manufacturing and sales of European 
standard high quality yet affordable thin walled stainless steel and carbon steel press fittings used in global 
agricultural, industrial, commercial and residential sectors as pressfittings becomes the material-saving, 
hazard-free industry standard in joining thin walled metal pipes, especially for the delivery of clean drinking 
water and provision of gas network worldwide.  
   2 
 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
The funding and sales guarantees from AMCOPRESS will significantly enhance the Company' operating 
performance in the years to come and planned marketing efforts will noticeable increase the Company' 
profile among investors and significantly help sales and marketing initiatives for the Company in Europe, 
US and Asia. 
 
In order to enjoy good sustainable profit margins, the Company needs to provide long term guarantee for 
its stainless steel products and increased Company profile in Europe will induce credibility and significantly 
cut short the due diligence time needed by potential European clients. More awareness as a result of new 
health related regulations on lead/copper in piping systems in the US and Europe will help market the 
Company's products in Europe and raise its profile among fitting specialists who will help drive sales from 
existing clients, especially for the local UK market. For mature European markets, fitting distributors have 
more trust in a UK incorporated public limited company as a supplier than in a private company. Wider 
use of Company's products in Europe and the ongoing active involvement in European financial market 
will raise the Company's profile among European and Asian based investors which will ensure availability 
of future funding for sales expansion and open up new channels for increasing shareholder value by way 
of strategic alliances with global fitting specialist groups or multi-national industrial players. 
 
The Company is at a turning point in its development history, moving away from a research project and 
into a public market quoted fitting specialist serving the enormous global water and gas industries. As sales 
volume increases fast with a combination of orders from AMCOPRESS and the Company's own clients, 
the Board is confident that operating performance of the Company will start to improve in the coming 
years.  
 
Business Review 
The relocation of the factory caused major disruptions to the Company's operations and the negative impact 
was still noticeable in 2013 as a result of temporary suspension of marketing initiatives in the second half 
of 2012 while the Company re-established its production facilities in the new Zhuhai plant. Hindered by 
raw material shortage due to minimum order sizes and additional efforts required for new carbon steel 
product lines, the Company suffered from sub-optimal production levels and as a result, deliveries of client 
orders were frequently delayed. During the year, raw material procurement became an issue as some of the 
regular suppliers had operation difficulties resulted from depressed and volatile steel markets, forcing the 
Company to increase its average order size with tighter payment terms. The Company had taken initiatives 
to broaden its raw material supplier list but it usually takes some time to establish a stable supplier 
relationship. Global market for pressfittings continue to boom as judged by the number of leads and 
enquiries for possible distribution and OEM opportunities received by the Company. 
 
After the investment from AMCOPRESS was confirmed, the Company focused on the twin objectives of 
greatly improving its operating efficiencies and simultaneously preparing for more direct involvement in 
European financial markets. The Company will step up its marketing initiatives in the coming months and 
the Board believes the long term prospects of Company is bright as self-branded high quality pressfittings 
manufactured by the Company start to be made available in more markets. With AMCOPRESS' assistance, 
the Company will increase its product offering to tailor for different client bases, such as products for US 
clients, and apply for more product certifications for different countries and industries.  
 
   3 
 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Financial Results 
The consolidated net loss attributable to equity holders for the year ended 31 December 2013 was  621,000 
(2012:  290,000). A combination of increased overhead due to rent for the factory space and higher level 
of production costs in Guangdong as compared to Shandong, costs of restarting operations in Zhuhai City, 
accrued interest expenses, and the write down of inventories as part of the accounts cleanup exercise caused 
most of the losses. In late 2013, significant costs were incurred to pay for the various adviser fees in the 
amount of  60,000 and as a result of the factory operating below capacity, significant idle costs in the 
amount of  247,000 for 2013. General speaking, product prices for OEM services are relatively low and as 
part of the market opening strategy, discounts for new OEM clients were substantial and it had a negative 
impact on the Company' bottom line. However, the Company will likely generate better financial results 
for 2014 as delivery for AMCOPRESS orders starts and expected new sales channels to be opened up as 
more marketing initiatives are planned.  
 
As a going concern 
After making enquiries, although having a capital deficiency at 31 December 2013, the directors consider 
that the Group still has adequate resources, loans and guaranteed sales orders from current and former 
shareholders to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. New equity, deposits and 
proceeds from sales orders provide short-term funds for the Group to complete the orders on hand. 
Promised continuing financial supports from major shareholders will support the Company in maintaining 
business operations going forward.  
 
As the Group continues expand its sales in Europe and Asia with new OEM clients and potential new 
distributors for its products and with the guaranteed sales orders from AMCOPRESS, the operating 
performance of the Company will improve and going forward new financing options and partnership 
opportunities will arise to further enhance the Group's financial positions as sales expand. Consequently, 
the directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
 
APPRECIATION 
On behalf of the board of directors, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all shareholders and 
business partners for their support and to all employees for their continued loyalty and hard work in 2013 
and I am looking forward to improving performance in the coming year. 
 
 
 
Mark Pajak 
Chairman 
 
 
  