 Chairman's Statement
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Preston North End Plc, I am pleased to present our Annual Report
and Financial Statements for the year to 30th June 2009.
Once again, we knocked on the door of the Premier League, having secured a place in the Play-Offs
following a dramatic end to the season. The results in the last few games were fantastic and the
atmosphere at Deepdale for the final game against Queens Park Rangers as we secured a Play-Off place
was something I will remember for many years.
Unfortunately, however, it was not to be our year yet again. Naturally we were all disappointed to have lost
to Sheffield United in the semi-finals but I believe we have moved on and started the new 2009/10 season
with the same enthusiasm and determination as we finished the last.
Despite our playing success in the 2008/09 season, it was very challenging from a financial perspective.
Players' wages were yet again higher than the previous year and we did not have a significant player sale
in the financial year.
It is becoming increasingly difficult to continue to meet the expectations of fans who want the Club to be
competing for promotion every year. Of course, we all want to see this level of success. However, the
competition from the recently relegated Premier League sides and their financial resources makes this
extremely difficult.
We have once again been heavily reliant on the assistance of our major shareholder, Guild Ventures
Limited, for continuing financial support. Without this we certainly could not continue to compete with the
cost of the squad we have maintained which remains well in excess of our total football income. I am
personally very grateful for this support, without which our season and current fnancial situation would be
very different.
Financial Overview
Turnover was  8.51m which was broadly in line with the previous year ( 8.45m).  Although income from
ticket sales was lower than it was in 2008 ( 3.41m compared to  3.69m), rental income from stadium
tenants was higher at  0.79m (2008:  0.34m) due to the income receivable from Central Lancashire
Primary Trust for the rent on the Minerva Health Centre under the Invincibles Pavilion, which became
operational in the year.
Despite this relatively static income, however, total staff costs have increased by some 25% to  11.24m
(2008:  8.99m), which is almost all attributable to increases in players' wages.
The consequence of this is that we have incurred an operating loss of  5.94m, which is considerably
higher than the previous year ( 3.38m).
Profit on player disposals was only  312,000 in the year and principally related to the sale of Matt Hill to
Wolverhampton Wanderers.  The prior year profit was much higher at  5.74m due to the sale in that year
of David Nugent to Portsmouth FC.
After accounting for depreciation and amortisation of our assets and playing squad ( 2.71m), together with
net finance costs of  0.82m, our net pre-tax loss was  9.17m.
In the absence of significant profits from player sales, our losses have been funded by the loans from our
major shareholder as referred to above.
This level of loss is totally unsustainable for any business and has only been possible with this loan
funding. We have, therefore, tried to make progress towards removing from the squad players who had
not been featuring regularly in the First Team. Since the last year end we have cancelled the contracts of
Kevin Nicholls, Lewis Neal, Joe Anyinsah, Brett Ormerod and Jason Jarrett with a view to reducing the
overall cost of the squad wages.
1
PRESTON NORTH END PLC Chairman's Statement (continued)
New players have been purchased in the year (Stephen Elliott from Wolverhampton Wanderers, Jon
Parkin from Stoke City, Eddie Nolan from Blackburn Rovers, Ross Wallace from Sunderland) and since
the year end Paul Parry from Cardiff City and Veliche Shumulikoski from Ipswich Town. All have featured
regularly in the First Team and have made a positive contribution to our success.
Football
Despite losing out in the Play-Offs I felt that the 2008/09 season was another year of progress for the Club.
We have continued our track record of sourcing young players who contribute to our success, develop
their playing ability and attract the interest of clubs at a higher level. Whilst Sean St Ledger's move to
Middlesbrough FC will be reflected in next year's Financial Statements, the interest from a club like this is
a reflection of Sean's hard work and determination to succeed since he joined Preston North End. Whilst
we all want to see players of his ability remain in our squad, the income generated by such transactions
helps us to fund our operating losses as we aim to compete at the top end of the Championship.
I would also like to pay special tribute to Paul McKenna, following his move this summer to Nottingham
Forest. Having progressed through the youth system at Deepdale, Paul went on to play over 400 games
for Preston. Whilst we would have liked to see Paul complete his career at Preston North End, we
appreciate that Paul wanted to accept the longer contract that Nottingham Forest were offering and earn
wages that are in excess of our budgets. The transfer fee will also fund some of the losses we expect to
continue to incur in the 2009/10 season.
I feel that we currently have a squad which comprises a good mix of young maturing players alongside
some more experienced team members. Our manager Alan Irvine is extremely good at maximising the
potential of all our players, regardless of where they are in their playing careers.
Alan has achieved a great deal for the Club since he arrived and his success has inevitably attracted the
interest of other clubs. However, I was delighted that he was still in charge at the start of the current
season.
Our draw in the FA Cup against Liverpool was another memorable occasion at Deepdale, especially so as
this was the first occasion that the stadium was full with all four sides of the ground developed. It would
be fantastic if we could achieve similar crowds throughout the domestic season.
Our Women's Team also had a good season. The team reached the League Cup semi-final and were
narrowly defeated by Premier League side Doncaster Belles. They also changed their manager with Chris
Stammers taking over as first team boss. I wish Chris and the team well in the 2009/10 campaign.
Stadium and Commercial Activities
The current economic climate has presented a particularly difficult year to expand hospitality and
advertising revenues. We understand and respect the difficulty that businesses and individuals face.
However, we now have a broad range of hospitality options at various prices in both the Sir Tom Finney
and Invincibles stands and we are grateful to those who have continued to support us in this way.
I am delighted to be able to confirm that Enterprise have confirmed a further year of sponsorship for the
2009/10 season. This is a key item within our commercial budgets and I am very grateful to Enterprise for
their continued support.
In January 2009, the Primary Care Trust building was finally completed and the first medical services are
now being operated from the premises. It was an honour for the Club that HRH Princess Anne was able
to officially open the Minerva Health Centre.
2
PRESTON NORTH END PLC Chairman's Statement (continued)
We have formed some great partnerships with the Primary Care Trust with a programme of Healthy
Lifestyles education being conducted by our staff in local schools and men's health screening on
matchdays being just two examples.
Youth And Community
Our Youth Team had an excellent season in 2008/09. The team won the Lancashire Youth Cup with a
3-2 win over Burnley in the final. Five players made international appearances for Northern Ireland and
Wales with Conor McLaughlin featuring in the Northern Ireland Milk Cup under 20's Championship winning
team.
It was also encouraging to see five players signing professional contracts for the 2009/10 season.
Congratulations on this achievement go to Danny Mayor, Dominic Collins, Phillip Quirk, Tom Smyth and
Adam Barton.
We have continued to expand our network of soccer coaching sessions for young people. In addition to
the schedule of coaching sessions we run around the North West, we have delivered programmes in the
Isle of Man and Ireland in the last year. These continue to promote the Club as well as supporting our
ultimate goal of nurturing young talented players.
Every year I look at the Championship fixture list and contemplate the size of some of the clubs we will
face. The new 2009/10 season is no exception with teams like Newcastle and Middlesbrough now in the
Championship. With the financial resources we have available it is always going to be a challenge.
However, I hope that we can continue our quest for promotion and that our organisation and determination
to succeed can be some substitute for the comparatively lower resources we have available.
Finally, as ever, I would like to thank our fans, shareholders and staff for their continued support and
dedication in our combined effort to move the Club forward.
D Shaw
Chairman
3
PRESTON NORTH END PLC