 Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2007
4
Chairman's Statement
Mr. David Ben Koon Wong
Chairman
For more than 30 years I have traded building 
materials in Asia and, particularly, in the People's 
Republic of China (PRC); and the first thing 
you realise is the criticality of these resources 
to developing economies. You also learn to 
appreciate the importance of quality, the need for 
continuity of supply and the contribution of well 
organised logistics. Creating and fostering long 
term relationships, based on trust, is a further vital 
ingredient which, in my view, is just as important as 
paying and being paid on time. Similarly, seeking 
to be a good and responsible citizen is both, a 
fundamental aim and one which serves to enhance 
and sustain the business over time.
The two core building materials are cement and 
iron ore from which concrete and steel are made.  
Prosperity is involved in both manufacturing in the 
case of cement and trading in and supply of iron ore 
to major steel mills in the PRC.
04	PM	Chairman.indd			4 04	PM	Chairman.indd			4 2007/6/26			5:51:20	PM 2007/6/26			5:51:20	PM 5
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2007
Chairman's Statement
Cement manufacturing is a new activity for 
Prosperity and as a company we are now entering 
our second year of ownership. In April 2006, 
we acquired 100% of Yingde Dragon Mountain 
Cement Company Limited (YDM) and 25% of 
Prosperity Conch Cement Company Limited (PCC) 
- both brand new facilities which employ modern 
suspension pre-heater dry processing. The design 
capacity of the clinker* and cement plant at YDM is 
5.9 million tonnes per annum, while at PCC it is 7.9 
million tonnes per annum. PCC is a joint venture 
with Anhui Conch Cement Company Limited (Anhui 
Conch), which is the largest cement manufacturer 
in the PRC and listed on both the Hong Kong and 
Shanghai Stock Exchanges. As an indication of the 
scale of the operations, these facilities on their own 
could supply the UK with all its annual requirements 
for cement and have signifi cant capacity to spare 
(demand came to 11.3 million tonnes last year 
according to estimates from Euroconstruct).
Both YDM and PCC are based in the Guangdong 
Province (formerly known as the  Canton Province' 
in the English speaking world) in the south of the 
country. In fi scal 2007, YDM sold 3.0 million tonnes 
of cement and 2.7 million tonnes of clinker, while 
PCC which was commissioned during the year sold 
1.8 million tonnes of cement and 4.5 million tonnes 
of clinker.
In addition, Prosperity has recently finalised 
an expansion of its operations into the key 
geographical area of Anhui Province in the 
central PRC through the acquisition of a 40% 
interest in Anhui Chaodong Cement Company 
Limited (Chaodong) a public company listed on 
the Shanghai Stock Exchange. This 40% interest 
shall be diluted to 33.06% after the completion 
of a share reform passed at a meeting of the 
Chaodong shareholders held in May 2007. Details 
of Chaodong are given in the Management Review 
and Analysis which follows.
The PRC has an abundance of limestone, the core 
raw material for making cement. However, it is not 
similarly well endowed with high quality indigenous 
iron ore reserves; but is, nonetheless, the World's 
largest user (as it is of cement). This means that vast 
quantities of iron ore have to be imported and in the 
calendar year, 2006, total imports amounted to 326 
million tonnes (compared to a total domestic iron ore 
production of 588 million tonnes), which refl ected an 
increase of 18% year-on-year. (source: Umetal.net)
Prosperity's iron ore trading business opened for 
business in 1992 when I began sourcing the product 
from Brazil, South Africa and Australia; and I signed 
my first long term supply contract, in the same 
year, with a representative company of Kumba 
Footnote
* clinker is a complex calcium alumino-silicate material 
produced by the calcination of limestone and clay. It is 
then ground and mixed with gypsum to form cement or 
more correctly, Portland Cement.
04	PM	Chairman.indd			5 04	PM	Chairman.indd			5 2007/6/26			5:51:24	PM 2007/6/26			5:51:24	PM Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2007
6
Chairman's Statement
Resources, the South African minerals giant. In 
early 2006, we commenced importing modest 
quantities (approximately 10% of our shipments) of 
iron ore from Thailand, which is a lot closer to the 
PRC than the more traditional export nations giving 
us a very signifi cant advantage on our spot selling 
price due to substantially lower freight costs. For the 
year ended 31 March 2007, our total shipments from 
all sources amounted to 3.2 million tonnes.
2006-07 PERFORMANCE
Prosperity's shares were admitted to trading on the 
AIM market of the London Stock Exchange in May of 
last year and I am delighted to present, this, its fi rst 
set of annual results as a listed company.
In the 12 months ended 31 March 2007, Prosperity 
generated profi t before tax of $45.9 million, which 
refl ects a 37% increase. The Board regards this as a 
very satisfactory set of results, which were achieved 
despite a weather-affected first half and difficult 
trading conditions in July and August, in particular, 
for iron ore. There are no comparatives for the 
cement businesses but iron ore did see a sharp fall 
in both operating profi ts and margins year on year. 
This situation improved in the second half of the 
year and in the new fi scal year to date. Details of the 
individual performance of each Division are given 
in the Management Review and Analysis which 
follows.
A maiden final dividend of 12 cents per ordinary 
share has been recommended by the Board. If 
approved by the Annual General Meeting on 25 July 
2007 this will, together with the first-ever interim 
dividend of 6 cents per ordinary share (already paid 
on 24 January 2007), result in a total dividend of 18 
cents per ordinary share for the year.
Turning to the key area of cash, EBITDA 
(earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation) is a proxy for cash fl ow. In the year 
it amounted to $56.3 million, up from $35.3 million 
in fi scal 2006. What is more, net interest payments 
were covered 9.8 times by EBITDA (2006: $19.5 
times). Net assets at 31 March 2007 amounted to 
$208.1 million (2006: $4.9 million), while net debt, 
defi ned as total borrowings net of cash, was $37.7 
million (2006: $11.4 million).
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group is committed to achieving high standards 
of corporate governance with the objective of 
building the long-term interests of the Group 
and maximising returns to shareholders and 
stakeholders. Our move from a private to a publicly 
traded company required certain board adjustments 
in order to comply with corporate governance best 
practice. The appointment of fi ve independent non-
executive directors and one non-executive director 
bring to the Group a wealth of knowledge on AIM 
and growth businesses, UK corporate governance, 
iron ore market and cement operations. They are 
making valuable contributions to the growth of the 
Group. I very much appreciate their involvement and 
wish to thank them all for their efforts.
BOARD CHANGES
Immediately prior to the year end, we were pleased 
to announce the appointment of a new Executive 
Director in Johannes Petrus Mulder; which became 
effective on 1 April 2007. Mr Mulder joins us 
from Exxaro Resources Limited (formerly Kumba 
Resources Limited or Kumba Resources) where he 
worked as a General Manager and then Manager of 
Business Development in South Africa. Mr Mulder 
04	PM	Chairman.indd			6 04	PM	Chairman.indd			6 2007/6/26			5:51:28	PM 2007/6/26			5:51:28	PM 7
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2007
Chairman's Statement
also held senior positions in Kumba Resources 
itself including Chief Representative of Kumba 
Resources in Beijing (1997-2002) and a Director 
and General Manager of Kumba Hong Kong Ltd 
(2003-2006) and Kumba Hongye Zinc Company. 
The Board believes he will be of great assistance to 
our iron ore trading business. At the same time, but 
in an unrelated move, Michael James Allen stepped 
down from the Prosperity Board but he remains with 
the Company as its geologist.
OUR PEOPLE
The achievements in the year and the foundation 
which has been laid for the future could not have 
been made without the people who work every day 
for Prosperity; and their number is nearly 900. When 
I read other companies' annual reports, I often feel 
that votes of thanks can appear platitudinous or 
even condescending. I am, thus, at pains here to 
underline my sincerest gratitude to the Directors, 
management and staff of Prosperity for their hard 
work throughout the year; and I look forward to 
meeting as many as I can during the current year.
SHAREHOLDERS
I would also like to record my thanks to our new 
external, mostly European-based, shareholders for 
their support during the year.
PROSPECTS
Prosperity serves one market, the PRC, which is 
now the World's fourth largest economy (behind 
the US, Japan and Germany). It is also the 
largest consumer of both cement and iron ore, 
as I mentioned earlier. The nation's GDP is also 
growing at a double digit rate and although this may 
slow moderately from current levels, due to PRC 
Government fiscal and monetary policy, it is still 
expected to remain robust.
It is also noteworthy that the PRC will host the 
2008 Olympic Games, 2010 Asian Games, and 
2010 EXPO amongst others. These events will be 
significant for the domestic economy and as an 
international showcase for the PRC.
At a company level, operating issues include 
product manufacturing costs, including energy, 
transportation costs and product pricing. 
Management, however, is no stranger to these. 
Furthermore, trading in the opening months of 
the new fi scal year has been good with a marked 
increase in cement prices and increased month on 
month tonnages of iron ore from Thailand. In the 
absence of unforeseen circumstances, the Board is 
looking forward to a year of further progress in line 
with market expectations.
David Ben Koon Wong
Chairman & CEO
26 June 2007
04	PM	Chairman.indd			7 04	PM	Chairman.indd			7 2007/6/26			5:51:28	PM 2007/6/26			5:51:28	PM