 Chairman's Statement
6
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2012
 I believe we have 
laid further strong 
foundations for future 
growth. 
It has been a year of challenges, not least because of the PRC Government's continued efforts to control 
domestic inflation and the real estate market which have impacted all of our business units. Nevertheless, I 
believe we have laid further strong foundations for future growth.
COMPANY STRATEGY
In iron ore trading, our strategy for growth is to secure reliable sources of iron ore over the short, medium and 
long term at competitive prices for sale to steel mills in the PRC.
Accordingly, we have entered into several iron ore off-take agreements with well resourced companies in 
Malaysia and Canada. For example, iron ore shipped from the Malaysian producer has increased more than 
four-fold during the last fiscal year compared to the prior year.
We have also been investigating opportunities to invest upstream for some time, and, in December 2010, we 
acquired an effective 35 per cent interest in United Goalink Limited (UGL), a joint venture company engaged 
in the production and exploration of iron ore in Brazil. We are actively seeking further attractive opportunities 
to invest in iron ore and other mineral resources, based on the expected future demand for these products in 
the PRC. Indeed, expansion of and growth in the Company's mineral resources business will continue to be 
Prosperity's prime focus. Chairman's Statement (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited
Annual Report 2012
7
Turning to the property development division, Prosperity's strategy has been to identify well-located sites 
in major cities which we could develop at low cost and which offer high potential rates of return. These 
investments, which are in Renminbi, afford diversification from predominantly US dollar-denominated 
investments - and thereby help us to manage risk.
Currently, the focus is on the successful completion of the Company's development project in Guangzhou, as 
well as to bring both the Changzhou and Hangzhou projects on stream. Looking further ahead, any potential 
new projects will be very carefully vetted before any commitment is made.
IRON ORE OPERATIONS
Prosperity's iron ore trading business has been operating for over 20 years, selling product to large and 
medium size steel mills in the PRC. However, in recent years, the iron ore industry has undergone a number 
of fundamental changes, including the shift in 2010 from annual benchmark price setting to quarterly (outside 
the spot market). At the same time, the major producers have sought to transact a larger proportion of their 
business direct with steel mills. Both of these factors have led to a squeeze on traders' margins which is why 
Prosperity has re-cast its iron ore trading model and, like other players, sought to invest directly in future raw 
material supplies at competitive prices.
Chairman's Statement (Continued) Chairman's Statement (Continued)
8
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited
Annual Report 2012
As we reported in the autumn of 2011, we needed to 
either exit this business or transform it from the low risk, 
low capital - and low margin - trading model to a more 
capital intensive one which should ultimately improve 
profitability and the quality of earnings. Thus, we have 
invested, either as principal or in the form of off-take 
agreements, in a range of schemes in Asia, Brazil and 
Canada which guarantee tonnage at a competitive 
price for the short, medium and long term.
However, investment in new iron ore mines is a long 
term business and an attractive rate of return is 
seldom immediate; and our 35 per cent holding in 
UGL in Brazil is a case in point. It plans to bring the 
existing mine into profit as soon as possible and the 
first shipment was completed just four months after 
Prosperity's investment in December 2010. Since then, 
annual production capacity has increased from 3,000 
tonnes to 450,000 tonnes and construction of an iron 
ore processing plant is underway, which will further 
increase production to 1 million tonnes per annum. 
Once completed, the processing plant will also increase the quality of the iron ore to 62 per cent iron content 
or higher (which sells for more) and, at the same time, lower production cost per tonne.
PROPERTY INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Our key development project, Oriental Landmark, is located in downtown Guangzhou, a Tier 1 city and a 
regional capital in the southern PRC which enjoys consistent economic growth. Sales at Oriental Landmark 
continued to be robust and were agreed at prices per square metre which exceeded our original expectations. 
Up to 24 June 2012, the Company has sold 164 units in the first residential block (out of 184 units) and 98 
units in the second residential block (out of 158 units). Although some additional costs have been incurred on 
the development, a very good return is expected.
I should also add an accounting point about profit recognition on apartment blocks. Under IFRS, revenue on 
property sales are recognised when legal title is passed to the buyer. In turn, this is determined by the issue of 
an occupation permit by the relevant local government authority. It is my understanding that these occupation 
permits will be issued in fiscal 2013-14, which is also when we can declare the first revenue and profit. In 
addition, completion of Oriental Landmark in fiscal 2013-14 will provide the Company with stable, recurrent 
rental income from the 35,868 square metres of commercial area in the shopping arcade and the 500 car park 
spaces located in one of the busiest areas in Guangzhou. Chairman's Statement (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited
Annual Report 2012
9
Also in Guangzhou our investment property, SilverBay Plaza, remains fully let. Elsewhere, our commercial joint 
venture in Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province is awaiting government planning approval. It is located 45 minutes 
by train from Shanghai. Taking into account current developments in the regional property market, we and our 
50:50 joint venture partner are revising the development plans for the combined recreational, commercial and 
residential project in Changzhou City near Xiamen in Fujian Province.
CEMENT MANUFACTURING
Anhui Chaodong Cement Company Limited (ACC), in which we own 33.06 per cent, performed very well in the 
year under review and contributed $15.8 million, which compares with $2.2 million in fiscal 2010-11. ACC is 
listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and as at 31 March 2012 our stake had a value of approximately $143 
million. ACC is, in my view, an excellent contributor and an important store of value for the Company. ACC has 
also announced that it will be paying its first ever dividend of RMB 0.1 per ordinary share to shareholders on or 
before 11 July 2012. Prosperity will be entitled to RMB 8 million before tax (approximately $1.3 million).
Prosperity has a 16.11 per cent equity interest in TCC Liaoning Cement Company Limited (TCC Liaoning) in 
Liaoning Province, in the northern PRC. It made a small first time contribution of $2.1 million in fiscal 2012, 
compared with a $70,000 loss in the previous year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, with the objective of building a long 
term, sustainable business and maximising the return to its shareholders. I would like to thank our Non-
executive Directors for their continued efforts in helping the Company to achieve and maintain these standards. 
Their valuable contribution is highly appreciated.
OUR PEOPLE
What we have achieved, and will go on to achieve, as a Company is only made possible by the talent, devotion 
and focus of our people; and, thus, on behalf of the Board and myself, I wish to express my deepest thanks to 
all management and staff. Chairman's Statement (Continued)
10
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited
Annual Report 2012
SHAREHOLDERS
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their continued support during the year.
DIVIDEND
A final dividend of 9 cents per share (2010-11: 9 cents) will be recommended by the Board. If approved at the 
AGM on 30 August 2012, the total dividend for the year will also be 9 cents per share (2010-11: 18 cents, which 
included 9 cents by way of a special dividend relating to the sale of the bulk of our cement business). Since our 
flotation six years ago, we have paid a dividend every year and we know how important this is to shareholders.
OUTLOOK
In essence, our business is about identifying opportunities, investing in them and developing businesses - and, 
where and when appropriate, divesting some. In our short life as a quoted company, the Group has shown how 
it can create value in the case study which was cement. We started this business from a series of acquisitions 
and new developments which we then invested in and expanded and, ultimately, sold for almost $500 million 
cash and a book profit of around $200 million; while retaining interests in ACC (valued at $143 million) and TCC 
Liaoning, which has just moved into profitability.
Similarly, after some deliberation, we decided to retain our iron ore trading operation but substantially change 
the way it does business; and we believe that being a principal rather than simply an agent will strengthen 
our market position and enhance returns. And, aside from some short term weakness in iron ore prices, 
the medium to long term outlook for iron ore on a global basis is excellent and I am very excited about the 
prospects for our business.
At a macro economic level, the PRC economy has slowed but the World Bank is still forecasting 8.2 per cent 
GDP growth in calendar 2012 and many commentators believe that the Chinese economy is shifting from one 
with an export bias to one driven by domestic demand and a burgeoning middle class. Chairman's Statement (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited
Annual Report 2012
11
Prosperity is not an investment which can grow earnings at a consistent and predictable annual rate. We are a 
developing business which seeks to generate first class investment returns over time. We also believe that we 
can evolve into a successful mineral resources company and, through execution of our strategy, the medium to 
long term prospects of the Company are very good. Like you, I am a shareholder and you have my assurance 
that I will work hard to achieve excellent results - and I am sure that stock market recognition will follow. Unlike 
many of our peers, we have paid a dividend every year and will do so again this year. I take great pride in what 
we do and continue to have huge ambitions for Prosperity.
(David) Ben Koon Wong
Chairman and CEO
4 July 2012