 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
chairman's statement
Chris Cole 
Chairman
Returning to growth
I am pleased to be able to report that Ashtead returned to growth  
in the past year with underlying Group pre-tax profits up from  5m in 
2010 to  31m and underlying earnings per share of 4.0p (2010: 0.2p).  
This recovery is not, as yet, being driven by an improvement in end 
construction markets which remained weak all year in both the US and 
UK. Instead, as we had always expected would be the case at this point  
in the cycle, we saw an increase in the demand for our services in the  
US driven by increased rental penetration and also by the gains we made 
in market share.
The biggest driver of our profit growth was the rise in US rental revenue 
which increased 10% in the year as we grew average fleet on rent by  
5% and our achieved yield or rate by 3%. This growth in rental revenue, 
coupled with continued control over operating costs, saw Sunbelt's 
underlying operating profits rise 39% to $162m (2010: $117m). In the UK, 
despite difficult end markets and already high rental penetration, A-Plant 
again performed well relative to its peers. However, absolute UK returns 
were still low with an operating profit of  3m (2010:  2m).
Looking forward, we are cautiously optimistic about end construction 
markets in the US with leading indicators predicting that we will see an 
end to the declines in 2011, with strengthening growth in 2012 and 2013. 
We also expect that the twin benefits of the ongoing structural shift  
in the US market to rental combined with gains in our market share, which 
helped drive our performance in the past year, will continue into this year 
and beyond. In the UK, it is likely that end markets will remain tough for 
some time but this will, we think, help bring about a reduction in both 
fleet size and the number of participants in what has been an over 
supplied market. We expect there to be consequent positive implications 
for returns when end markets recover.
Stronger as we enter the upturn
At Ashtead we have long recognised that we operate in a cyclical market 
and that, in dealing with the challenges of recession, equally we need to 
prepare for recovery.
This cycle, despite the depth of the decline in US end construction  
markets since 2008, we believe we are much better positioned than we 
were when the US last came out of recession post 2001/2. We now have  
a far larger national US business with the opportunity to capitalise on 
renewed growth wherever it first arises regionally. And whilst we cut costs 
dramatically in 2009, we did so in a way which still today leaves us with 
the store network and geographical reach required to participate in almost 
all the markets we served at the last peak in 2008. We also start the 
recovery with stronger US EBITDA margins than we earned back in 
2003/4, 32% versus 28%, and believe we have not yet seen the full  
profit potential from our acquisition of NationsRent in 2006. 
Thus we are excited by the opportunities available to us to build 
organically on the nationwide store network we created in the US with  
the NationsRent acquisition and which we have worked hard to preserve 
through the recessionary years. We believe we have the opportunity to 
add broadly 25% to current fleet size at existing stores in coming years, as 
well as having a proven new store opening model to which we can return 
selectively as end markets recover.
Continued balance sheet strength
Not only are we larger now than in 2003/4, but our financial position  
is much stronger. Our rental fleet is not as old and our funding position  
is healthy. We recently announced that we had renewed the Group's 
asset-based senior secured loan facility in the amount of $1.4bn and 
extended its maturity to March 2016 at an interest margin 1% lower than 
the 2013 commitments we replaced. Over the 2008 to 2010 period the 
Group reduced outstanding debt by almost  400m at current exchange 
rates or about one-third, principally from organic cash generation. Given 
this reduction, just before year end, we redeemed $250m of our junior 
debt early which has further lowered future interest costs whilst still 
giving us the funding we need to finance growth. We believe that the 
Group has now reached a size and scale where cash generation should 
largely fund organic growth and hence, before any acquisitions, net debt 
can be held broadly to its current level over the next phase of the cycle.
Our  776m total net debt now comprises $796m drawn under our senior 
loan facility together with the $550m 2016 senior secured note issue,  
and was committed for 5.1 years on average at year end. The $479m 
availability on the senior loan facility provides us with the balance sheet 
flexibility and strength required to enable our businesses to succeed and 
prosper in the years ahead.
Acquisitions
Given the organic growth opportunities available to us both within  
the existing store network and through green-field openings, our growth 
plans do not require acquisitions. Nonetheless, we believe there will  
be attractive opportunities to enhance the Group through further 
diversification into specialist markets and non-construction activities.
Thus, in January 2011, we acquired Empire, a specialist provider of scaffold 
rental, erection and dismantlement services principally to the Gulf Coast 
petrochemical industry. We paid approximately $39m with a $1.5m 
earn-out depending on Empire's profits in the year to 31 August 2011.  
This acquisition has enabled us to expand our specialty scaffolding services 
from the US eastern seaboard into new markets along the Gulf Coast. It 
has also brought with it a largely industrial customer base into which we 
expect, in time, to build out our general tool product offering. Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
We have returned to growth  
in the past year with underlying 
group pre-tax profits up from  
 5m in 201 0 to  31 m
What about the UK?
This is a question we are often asked. The Board believes that A-Plant 
continues to offer the potential for attractive returns in the future. 
However, we also recognise that the UK end construction market is 
challenging and is likely to remain so for some time as public investment  
is curtailed. 
In this environment, after three years of low fleet investment and  
material cash generation from A-Plant, our strategy is now to invest 
prudently in the business. We aim to ensure the quality of our offering and 
to continually re-emphasise to our customers the need for rates to be at  
a level necessary to support this investment. In our view, the UK rental 
market retains too many marginal participants which has perpetuated  
low returns. Perversely, the extended period of weak end markets which 
we believe lies ahead may prove to be the catalyst for change as weaker 
participants may find it challenging to survive. We have already seen  
one former top five UK market participant close its business at the end  
of 2010.
We retain the possibility of accelerating the market consolidation we 
believe is necessary through acquisition but we would only do so at a  
price which offers our shareholders an appropriate return on investment. 
The past year saw us make a public approach with our Belgian partners, 
TVH, for Lavendon under which we would have acquired Lavendon's UK 
access equipment business. Because we and TVH had a firm view on 
value, we withdrew our approach once it became clear that our view of 
the challenges ahead was not, at the time, shared by a sufficiently large 
proportion of Lavendon's shareholders for our approach to succeed.
Therefore, whilst we remain alert to the portfolio opportunities which  
our financial strength offers within the UK market, it is important to 
emphasise that our central strategy for the UK of prudent selective 
investment coupled with focusing on the value of the service we provide 
remains appropriate. It will, the Board believes, offer attractive returns 
once the cyclical UK construction market recovers.
Changes to the Board
As I explained in last year's statement Gary Iceton stood down from  
the Board at the September 2010 AGM on the expiry of two full terms  
as a non-executive director. We were delighted last September to 
announce the appointment of Ian Sutcliffe to replace Gary. Ian has had  
a wide and varied career in marketing and general management, latterly  
in the house-building and commercial property investment sectors.  
His experience, including his knowledge of these markets, complements 
the Board.
Dividend
Consistent with our policy of offering a progressive dividend having  
regard to the availability of both profits and cash whilst keeping to a level 
which is sustainable through the cycle, the Board is recommending an 
increased final dividend of 2.07p per share (2010: 2.0p per share) making 
3.0p for the year (2010: 2.9p). If the proposed final dividend is approved at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 9 September 
2011 to shareholders on the register on 19 August 2011.
Our people
We always say that our people are our most important asset and that  
has never been truer than through the recent difficult years when the 
dedication and loyalty of our staff have been sorely tested. Accordingly  
I thank them for their commitment to making Ashtead the best in the 
equipment rental business regardless of the difficult market conditions 
that we faced. As we begin the return to growth, we hope they, alongside 
our shareholders, will see further rewards for their continued support. This 
year we have expanded our reporting on employee matters and you can 
read more about the initiatives we have in place in our extended corporate 
responsibility report on pages 34 to 39.
Current trading and outlook
The momentum we established throughout the past year has carried 
forward into May with encouraging levels of fleet on rent and yield growth. 
Looking forward we remain cautious over the outlook for end construction 
markets in the short term, particularly in the UK. However, we continue  
to benefit from the structural shift to rental, market share gains and the 
improvements we have established in all key areas of our business. 
Together with our balance sheet strength and strong market positions,  
this makes us confident of another year of good progress.
Chris Cole 
15 June 2011
5