 03
QA plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chairman's statement
Introduction
During 2003, the market for IT products
and services continued to be extremely
difficult. It was a year in which QA
continued to manage tightly and to
reduce costs further; a time during which
consistent and close attention was paid
to the demands of its clients; and where
a concerted effort was made to resolve a
number of outstanding legacy matters.
Financial results 
Revenue declined by 11% to  29.2
million but effective cost reduction
meant that the operating loss before
goodwill amortisation of  0.3 million
and exceptional operating charges of
 3.0 million ( adjusted operating loss')
was  0.4 million compared with  2.1
million in 2002. This reflected a small
profit in the second half of the year.
Net exceptional operating costs and
non-operating costs, principally relating
to excess property costs and goodwill
impairment, were  2.4 million before tax
(2002:  57.7 million).
After these net exceptional charges,
goodwill amortisation of  0.3 million
(2002:  3.1 million) and net interest
payable of  0.2 million (2002:  0.2
million), the loss before tax is  3.3
million (2002:  63.0 million).
Operating performance
The first signs of the downturn in the
market for IT products and services
appeared in late Spring 2001 and have
continued with increasing severity
throughout 2002 and 2003. In QA's
market segment, many businesses are
heavily loss-making, several competitors
have already withdrawn from the market
and more are expected to do the same.
Management has responded vigorously
to these challenges and has achieved
extensive cost reductions in all areas of
the business in order to combat the
impact of declining revenue. At the
same time, QA has managed to sustain
market-relevant offerings by refocusing
its consulting and training services and
by developing new offerings without
incurring incremental expense. In so
doing, QA's relative market standing has
been maintained.
QA has increased its efforts to win more
clients in sectors that are currently
relatively strong and, in particular, the
public sector. Examples include the
Scottish Parliament, Ministry of Defence
and the NHS. QA has also focused on
larger, longer-term contracts to produce
more predictable and sustainable
revenue streams and the recent training
service contract awards from Barclays,
Norwich Union and Alliance & Leicester
have rewarded this strategy. These
contracts add further to the already
important stream of clients that includes
the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and
several other significant financial and
commercial organisations.
Trading conditions have remained challenging in the fourth
quarter of 2003. However, the fundraising through the
successful Rights Issue and Issue for Cash, combined with
the recent client wins and the continuing restructuring of
the market, have given the Directors increased confidence
that performance in 2004 will improve over 2003 levels. 
Dr Keith Burgess, Executive Chairman 04
QA plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chairman's statement
Continued
QA has introduced a number of new
product offerings resulting in new client
wins. Our blended learning offering,
which combines instructor-led training
with emerging eLearning, has contributed
a small element of revenue and this is
expected to grow. To further support our
commitment to blended learning and to
penetrate new markets, QA has also
formed an alliance with SkillSoft, a
leading eLearning provider, to deliver
business skills to business people by
offering instructor-led learning
components to clients who purchase a
SkillSoft suite of eLearning products. As
clients continue to require solutions that
 deliver more for less', there is increasing
client interest in this offering. I am
additionally gratified by the recognition
of excellence afforded by Microsoft's
recent award to QA of the Global Certified
Technical Education Centre (CTEC)
Solution of the Year, the first time that
this award has been made to a UK
company.
Implementation of strategy
Even though the market has continued 
to be depressed, QA has pursued an
approach of making modest investments
that can provide a worthwhile business
return. These include:
  further development of the blended
learning offerings; 
  the start-up of a QA Academy to offer
both professional and technical skill
courses to middle and higher
management;
  increasing the sale of professional
skills to non-IT audiences;
  expanding partner relationships;
 a further expansion of the number of
contracts for the provision of
outsourced training services;
  extending the development of
enterprise-wide training solutions that
deal with large scale organisational
change programmes; and
  aligning training and consulting to
create more offerings for the market.
Legacy issues 
The success of the fundraising achieved
by way of the Rights Issue and Issue 
for Cash ( the Issues') will provide the
means to bring to a successful
conclusion the major legacy issue that
has faced QA. I have previously spoken 
of the GA Information Services Limited
(GAIS) dispute and I am pleased to report
that this matter can now be settled,
removing a significant source of
uncertainty for the Group. The settlement
reached with the vendors of GAIS
requires QA to issue  750,000 of new
bank-guaranteed loan notes and further
unsecured loan notes totalling  900,000.
The total settlement of  1.65 million plus
a limited contribution to costs compares
with the maximum potential of  2.0
million plus costs, which was already
accrued on the balance sheet.
Our significant property portfolio remains
and it continues to receive management
attention. The Group continues to seek to
sub-let or otherwise dispose of the
onerous leases of its surplus properties.
A significant number of disposals, lease
breaks and sub-lets have been achieved
since 2001 but the commercial property
market has been and remains difficult.
The remaining surplus properties
comprise three leased properties that are
empty and four other properties where
sub-tenants are in place and paying a
rental close to current market rates but
below the level of head-lease rentals that
were established in different property
market conditions some years ago. These
arrangements are reviewed periodically
by the Board to ensure that the Group's
accounts contain provisions equivalent to
the Board's best estimate of the likely
total future exposure.
We expect shortly to complete a further
rationalisation of the training estate: the
Cirencester training centre has been
closed and the surrender of the lease is
now almost complete. Existing space
UK IT Training Market
  Market resizing, but has potential
  Competitors: many loss-making,
some withdrawn
  Market drivers 
- clients demanding more for less
- consolidation of suppliers
- move to outsourcing
- move to blended learning
- move to accreditation as an alternative
to Return on Investment 05
QA plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
within QA's existing Swindon premises 
is being converted into training rooms
that will replace the Cirencester training
rooms. This move will save property 
and related costs and, based on a recent
survey of clients, should not reduce
revenue.
Financing 
The Rights Issue and Issue for Cash have
now become unconditional, based on the
resolutions passed by shareholders at
the Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM)
on 9 February 2004 and the admission of
the shares to the London Stock
Exchange. Completion of the Rights Issue
and Issue for Cash will mark a very
significant step forward in terms of QA's
financial strength as it will enable the
settlement of the GAIS dispute and the
funds raised will leave QA with no net
borrowings as well as a better-funded
business than many of its competitors.
This balance sheet strength, together
with the new bank facility (put in place as
a result of the Issues), will improve our
ability to compete for larger training
contracts and give management the
flexibility to make selected investments
where opportunities for business
improvement arise.
Dividends
The Board does not recommend the
payment of a final dividend (2002:  nil).
Board and employees 
In the demanding year that has passed,
the burden on the Board members has
been significant and I thank them for
their contribution. 
I would also like to record my thanks to
the staff of QA. Their quality and
commitment is central to the market
standing of QA and its successful
recovery. I am very grateful to them for
their ongoing commitment and positive
response to the ever-increasing demands
of the market.
Outlook
With the passing of the resolutions at 
the EGM, QA is able to proceed with the
Rights Issue and Issue for Cash. The
fundraising will strengthen significantly
the Group's balance sheet and provide
increased security for the medium term.
This, together with QA's market leading
brand, strong client relationships and
tight rein on costs, leaves it well
positioned to emerge from the present
difficult market conditions with an
enhanced position.
Trading conditions for QA have remained
challenging in the fourth quarter of 2003.
However, recent client wins and the
continuing restructuring of the market
have given the Directors increased
confidence that performance in 2004 
will improve over 2003 levels.
Dr Keith Burgess
Executive Chairman
The UK IT Training Market
* Source: Top 50 IT Training Companies Report, IT
Training Magazine and IT Skills Research, July 2003.
Based on a market size of  385m.
eLearning
15.4%
Proprietary 
19.2%
Small Non-specified
28.6%
Broad 
Non-proprietary
36.8%