 Directors'Report - Business Review
Chairman's statement
6 www.QinetiQ.com
The collapse in world banking and credit systems has had a
devastating effect on markets everywhere. Yet governments cannot
ignore their obligations to protect their people and ensure their
citizens are as well provided for as possible in terms of security and the
basic necessities of life. Governments must also look to the future and
how to position their societies in the relentlessly globalised world in
which we now live. Whether they are discharging their fundamental
objectives, or investing for the future, technology is the key lever
governments reach for. This explains why QinetiQ's business
continues to prosper despite the global downturn.
Our progress
Over the past few years QinetiQ has been investing in those segments
of our business where we see the strongest demand growing well
into the future. Our US business has grown in five years from next to
nothing to be on the verge of overtaking our UK business in revenue
and profit. This has been achieved by building a first-class US
management team and conducting a targeted and disciplined
investment campaign aimed at specific hot spots in the enormous US
defence and security market. Previous acquisitions in vehicle robotics,
mission systems and systems engineering have delivered handsome
results in the year just concluded. Our most recent investments have
targeted intelligence systems and cyber defences where we foresee
very substantial increases in demand as governments' attention
switches to more domestic concerns.
The election of President Obama has enabled the reprioritisation of
policy in many areas of the US Administration. His Defense Secretary,
Robert Gates, has already indicated that major platform programmes
such as the F22 fighter and the VH-71 helicopter programmes will be
scaled back or cut as expenditure is concentrated instead on wars we
are in today and scenarios for the years ahead.  Conversely, President
Obama's stimulus package contains $21.5bn additional funding
for federal R&D on top of the increases already proposed which
themselves had an 11% increase in funds for DARPA, one of QinetiQ's
biggest customers for research in the US.
Our markets
In the UK, QinetiQ is the second largest contractor to the MOD, and
as such, is more exposed to the overall economic circumstances of the
MOD despite our strong position in several sub-sectors of that market.
MOD's difficulties in matching its funding to its commitments have
been well documented and have led to cutbacks in investment for the
future such as research. It is a testament to the strength of QinetiQ's
franchise in the more urgent parts of MOD's operations and its
portfolio of long-term contracts that EMEA's revenues for the year
were sustained with increased underlying profits. The Consulting and
Managed Services sectors of EMEA are well placed in their markets
and our management team is energetically engaged in reshaping
our T echnology business to narrow its focus to those product areas for
which we have a strong and sustainable route to market in the future.
Since its inception in 2001, QinetiQ has enjoyed consistent growth
in revenue, profit and earnings per share. Sustained profits over the
longer term is not just a matter of fortunate decision-making but
depends on fundamental characteristics that have deep roots within
the organisation. QinetiQ is a technology services company whose core
modus operandi is to bridge the gap between what a customer needs
to achieve and the technology required to deliver that goal. It is the
knowledge our people have of customer needs and the underpinning
technology that is our discriminator. Our people and the values
that unite them are the core of our offering. That is also why our
educational outreach programmes with schools, through the STEMNET
national Science and Engineering Ambassadors Scheme and other
commitments in the corporate responsibility arena, have such ready
resonance. It is the special quality and talent of our people that makes
QinetiQ a special place to work and enables us to deliver outstanding
results for our customers.
The Board
The Board is committed to good and effective governance and to
ensuring responsible management in all the Company's operations.
This is integral to the trust our customers and shareholders put in
us as a business.
A year of strong performance
Despite this year being one of the most difficult years for the world economy in
living memory, QinetiQ has continued its trajectory of revenue and profit growth
and delivered a solid performance. Underlying* profit before tax is up 19%, revenues
up 18%, and underlying* earnings per share has increased by 18.7%. T o reflect this
continued progress in our business the Board is recommending a final dividend of
3.25p per share, giving a total dividend of 4.75p (2008: 4.25p per share). 
05
06
07
08
09
Underlying* earnings per share 15.9p
8.8p
10.2p
11.3p
13.4p
15.9p
05
06
07
08
09
Dividend per share 4.75p
Nil
2.25p
3.65p
4.25p
4.75p
* Underlying financial measures are presented as the Board believes these provide a better representation of the Group's long-term performance trends. See Glossary
section on page 111 for definitions of Non GAAP terms used throughout this statement. QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
A key role of the Board is to look to the future and part of my function
is to ensure we have the right balance of skills and expertise around
the Board table to face the challenges and opportunities of the world
ahead. The Board has also developed comprehensive succession plans
designed to equip the Company with the leadership to realise the
potential that has now been created. I shall be retiring from the
Group at the 2010 AGM and we have recruited Mark Elliott to join
the Board from June 2009 with the intention that he shall succeed
me as Chairman when I step down. Mark brings a successful record
of leadership in technology-based services, particularly IBM, as well
as senior non-executive experience in substantial plcs. Peter Fellner,
who has been a member of the Board since 2004 and is Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee, will be stepping down from the Board
at this year's AGM. Peter has been a source of great wisdom during his
tenure and I am very grateful for the time and energy he has given the
Company. During the year, Doug Webb, who as Chief Financial Officer
helped to take QinetiQ through its privatisation and who has been a
member of the Board since 2005, resigned to take a similar position
with the London Stock Exchange. In August, the Board welcomed
David Mellors as a Director and Chief Financial Officer.
In September 2008, the UK Government sold its remaining ordinary
equity position in the Company. This completed the disposal process it
had first declared eight years earlier, which has resulted in not only the
creation of a very successful international company but also the delivery
of around  1bn of value for the Government. With this disposal of
the final tranche of its equity, the Government's right to nominate
a Director expired. Colin Balmer has fulfilled that role and has been
a member of the Board since 2003. Given the special understanding
that Colin brings of the working of Government and the MOD, the
Board has asked Colin to continue serving as a Director until such
time as a replacement with equivalent capability can be identified.
Our people
In a very difficult year for the world economy, QinetiQ has turned in
another good performance. This is not a happy accident but it is a
product of thoughtful positioning, intelligent investment, strong
leadership and most importantly, the skill and commitment of our
people. I would like to offer a special thanks to them for their efforts
in delivering the results presented in this report.
Future outlook
Despite the difficult circumstances, this has been another good year
of all-round progress for the Group. We have achieved good organic
growth, have continued to transition our UK business and strengthened
our offering through targeted acquisitions made during the year. We
have improved operating margins, generated strong cash flow and
won new contracts in growth markets. These results demonstrate
the strength of our operations.
We have started the new financial year with a further strengthening
of the Group's presence in North America through the acquisition of
Cyveillance, Inc, a provider of online monitoring technology to identify
and track data in cyberspace. This acquisition should complete in June
2009, following regulatory approval. The reshaping of the Group for the
future also includes a programme of disposals from amongst our large
inventory of technologies where others have the market reach to capture
more value than we readily can. As part of this, we have completed the
part disposal of our investment in Cody Gate Ventures and recently
signed a disposal contract for our Underwater Systems Business,
together generating  37m of proceeds.
Our confidence in the future prospects of the Group is reflected in
today's announced 11.3% increase in the final dividend for the year,
subject to the approval of shareholders.
Sir John Chisholm, Chairman
21 May 2009
Financial Statements Business Review Governance
Employees worldwide
Over 14,000