 1Spatial plc (formerly Avisen plc) 
 
3 
 
Chairman's Statement 
 
The year ended 31 January 2012 has been a very progressive year and has seen much change for the Group.  With 
the disposal of Inca in April 2011 and the acquisition of the 1Spatial Business in November 2011, there has been a lot 
of focus on corporate transactions. However, despite this, there has still been some positive financial improvements 
within the existing businesses of both Avisen UK and Storage Fusion.   
 
The Board's decision to invest in the 1Spatial Business will strengthen the strategy for the business moving forward. 
The 1Spatial Business has a strong customer base in some of the world's largest National Mapping Agencies 
(NMAs ) and these relationships have been built over many years throughout the history of the company. The 
1Spatial Business product manages data for many of the NMAs and this puts 1Spatial Business as a strategic partner 
and provider of technology in this market. 1Spatial Business will put a continued focus on product development and 
the innovation of its intellectual property and offerings, providing both on-premise and Cloud solutions through its 
recently launched 1Spatial Cloud platform. 
 
The common focus for all companies within the Group going forward, is to provide end users of data with both 
assurance over its quality and insight into its significance. This is part of the  Big Data' concept. Big Data is a term 
applied to data sets whose size is beyond the ability of commonly used software tools to capture, manage, and 
process the data. Big data has increased the demand for information management specialists and software firms 
specialising only in data management and analytics; this industry is several billion dollars globally and continues to 
grow significantly each year. 
 
The Board has undertaken review of the Group's operations as a result of the acquisition and believes that the full 
benefits of this review will come into effect in the second half of the next financial year ending January 2013.  
 
I was delighted to take up the role as non-executive Chairman of the Group following the acquisition of 1Spatial 
Business, and having previously served as the Chairman of 1Spatial Business, I can bring my existing knowledge 
and experiences to the new enlarged Board. Mark Battles, who was the previous interim non-executive Chairman, is 
now a non-executive Director on the Board. I believe that the new Board brings the combined balance of knowledge 
and relevant expertise required to take the new Group forward. Existing members of the Board are Marcus Hanke 
(CEO), Claire Milverton (CFO), Marcus Yeoman and Mark Battles (Non-executives).  New members of the Board 
from the 1Spatial Business are myself and Mike Sanderson (Director of Strategy). Nic Snape left the business in June 
2012 and we thank him for his efforts over the last 10 years and wish him well in his new ventures.   
 
Financial position 
 
Revenues for the year were  5.2m, which is a 100 per cent. increase on the 2011 figure of  2.6m.  Included within 
these revenues were two months of revenues from 1Spatial Business totalling  1.5m.   
 
Both the Avisen UK and 1Spatial Business made positive adjusted EBITDA contributions to the Group of  0.3m each 
(1Spatial Business's EBITDA for two months). The Storage Fusion business broke even for the year at an adjusted 
EBITDA level. The overall Group's adjusted EBITDA was a loss of  0.5m, which was a significant improvement on 
the prior year EBITDA loss of  1.5m. The overall adjusted EBITDA loss of  0.5m is due to head office costs which 
are approximately  1.1m. The Group has made no secret of the need to scale the operations to absorb the overhead 
costs associated with being a listed entity. With a full year's trading from 1Spatial Business and good prospects for 
the other businesses, covering these costs going forward should be achievable.   
 
The overall net loss for the year is  1.0m, which is a significant improvement on the net loss in 2011 of  7.2m.  The 
overall loss is partly as a result of  0.5m amortisation of intangible assets,  0.5m of strategic, integration and other 
one off items mainly resulting from the 1Spatial Business acquisition and integration process, and a profit on disposal 
of Inca Software Ltd of  0.5m. 
 
We have a strong balance sheet at the end of the year with a  2.7m cash balance (2011:  0.5m).  Whilst we received 
 5.2m on the disposal of Inca in the year, we have incurred certain cash outflows required to ensure adequate 
support for the Unilever contract, the ongoing head office costs and deal transaction costs. Once all the strategic and 
reorganisation costs associated with 1Spatial Business have been finalised, we expect the ongoing trading 
businesses to be cash flow positive.  
 
Strategy and reorganisation 
 
In the last annual report, our stated strategy was to continue to grow organically and acquisitively, and to convert this 
growth into higher profit and improved cash flow for distribution to our shareholders; we feel we have made firm 
progress in this respect during the year. However, the Board believes that this cash is needed to support its next 
phase of growth under the 1Spatial name and will therefore not be distributing back to shareholders at this stage. As 
noted above, we are now under one common branding, however, we still have three trading subsidiaries, namely 
1Spatial Business, Avisen UK and Storage Fusion. Taking each entity in turn: 
 
   1Spatial plc (formerly Avisen plc) 
 
4 
 
1Spatial Business 
 
As noted above, 1Spatial Business has a strong customer base in some of the world's largest National Mapping 
Agencies (NMAs), and these relationships have been built over many years.  
 
Building on the current strong customer base, the growth strategy for the business will be to continue our focus on the 
NMA market along with key vertical sectors such as utilities, transport and defence. 1Spatial Business played a key 
role in delivering Ordnance Survey GB's Geospatial Data Management System which went live in 2011. The UK now 
co-chairs a UN committee of experts focussed on providing the UN with accurate geographic information in order to 
monitor the Millennium Development Goals, so 1Spatial is in a strong position to capitalise on a range of 
opportunities in the big data NMA space. In addition, the utilities are focussed on smartgrids and the installation of 
smart meters for which spatial data is key to management and strengthens the requirement for the 1Spatial Business 
offering. Given our recent success at United Utilities Group plc with a project focused on data quality, we have a 
strong proof point for further development into this market. 
 
In addition, the Board is encouraged by the application of the company's Patented Oracle 3D Topology developed in 
conjunction with its government defence and military clients around the world and has sanctioned further market 
investment in this area. 
 
As part of our revised strategy we are addressing the ways in which we can achieve growth for the business in our 
marketplace, leverage our brand and scale the business on a global basis. Key to this success will be a major focus 
on partnerships as part of the plan, so that we may leverage our technology offerings and provide more options for 
our customer base.  One such partnership is with Google, where we have become an Enterprise Partner and will be 
using Google's technology and world-class platform to amplify Big Data issues for our customers and prospects. We 
will continue to develop our already strong partnerships with Oracle, Trimble and ESRI. 
 
Avisen UK 
 
Avisen continues to provide profitability improvement services to its clients which include Tesco and Unilever.  There 
continues to be significant opportunities within this part of the business. 
 
Storage Fusion 
 
Storage Fusion continues to develop, adding clients and partners to its unique storage resource analytical software 
and providing insight into these organisations' complex infrastructures; the Board is confident of securing further 
storage vendor partnerships during the remainder of this year to significantly enhance revenue and profitability. With 
its Cloud enabled offering it provides a cost effective way to measure data storage usage and consumption, and with 
the huge growth forecast in the SAAS marketplace the Storage Fusion product is very attractive. 
 
Conclusion and outlook 
 
Following the internal review, the Board believes that the Group is in a strong position to start a phase of organic 
growth and operating cash flow generation.  
 
Whilst the addition of the 1Spatial Business gives more scale to the business, management remains keen to review 
other acquisition opportunities to accelerate the growth of the business and provide more scale and synergistic 
opportunities.  
 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the management team and all of our employees for their hard work 
and dedication. This has enabled us to navigate a challenging environment and strongly position 1Spatial for the 
future.  
 
 
 
 
S Berry 
Chairman 
30 July 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 