 | Ramco Energy plc
2
Chairman's Statement
The production problems encountered
since the start of 2004 with our Seven
Heads gas development have obviously
been difficult for the Company, and they
have demonstrated rather forcefully the
risks inherent in our industry.
Following our successful exit from
Azerbaijan in 2000, our focus has 
been the Seven Heads gas field offshore
Ireland. This was part of a strategy to
reinvest a large amount of capital from 
a high risk region of the world into a gas
development in an economically low risk
area, a stable country with a growing
appetite for gas. The anticipated cash
flow was destined to fund our future
exploration activities in higher risk,
higher impact areas, such as Montenegro.
During 2003 the majority of the
Company's resources were focused 
on completing the technically and
financially demanding job of bringing
the Seven Heads development on stream.
The field successfully commenced
production at the end of 2003. We took
great satisfaction in the fact that this fast
track development had been professionally
managed in challenging circumstances.
However, that success has since been
overshadowed by unexpected production
problems. Work on a revised reservoir
model is under way and will be completed
over the next few months. That will
underpin a reassessment of the field and
help determine a future development
programme designed to maximise the
economic recovery of the field's reserves.
As already announced, the Board has
made a substantial impairment provision
against the carrying value of our interest
in the Seven Heads gas field and that
provision dominates the financial results
for the year.
Financial results
Group turnover for 2003 totalled 
 20.8 million, up from  16.8 million 
in 2002, reflecting the commencement
of gas sales under our Seven Heads
gas contract and a decline in activity
levels for Oil Services. Losses before
exceptional operating items fell to 
 3.4 million from  6.8 million in 2002. 
Exceptional operating items are however
significant, totalling  99.2 million 
as follows:
 m
Seven Heads 93.0
Poland 5.6
Tenge 0.6
99.2
The Seven Heads amount relates to 
an impairment provision against the
carrying value of the gas field. The
second item relates to a provision 
that has been made against a loan due
from an associated company through
which we hold our exploration acreage
in Poland. Although we have discovered
gas on the acreage the area is likely 
to require significant further investment
before commerciality could be confirmed.
At this time the Group does not have
the funds available to guarantee our
continued involvement in the area. 
The final exceptional item represents
the estimated legal costs expected 
to be incurred in our appeal against
the Tenge judgement in Texas, 
being management's best estimate 
of the outcome of the appeal.
Administrative expenses rose to 
 1.8 million from  1.4 million the
previous year, whilst exchange losses
reduced to  686,000 from  2.8 million 
in 2002. Net interest income reduced 
from  1.8 million in 2002 to  738,000
in 2003. 
The overall result before tax for the year
which, as indicated above, is primarily
the result of significant exceptional
items, is a loss of  104.1 million. 
This loss has been reduced by a tax
credit amounting to  27.4 million,
including the release of a provision 
for current and deferred tax relating 
to the held over gain on profit arising
from the disposal in 2000 of the
Group's interest in the ACG field 
in Azerbaijan. The Group after tax 
loss is  76.7 million (2002: loss 
 9.3 million). The Board is not
recommending payment of a dividend
(2002: nil). 
At 31 December 2003 Group cash
balances were  3.3 million and project
loans totalling  60 million had been
drawn to help fund the Seven Heads 
gas development. A further  8.6 million
of project loan was drawn shortly 
after the year end. Of the total loans 
of  68.6 million,  56.6 million is 
non-recourse, secured only against
Ramco's share of the Seven Heads gas
reserves, the balance of  12 million 
is secured against our Oil Services
business. As previously announced 
we are in discussions with our bankers
over the possible rescheduling of 
these project loans. Our bankers have
confirmed that it is not their intention 
to withdraw the finance facilities while
the technical work and negotiations 
are ongoing.
As a result of the uncertainties relating
to the outcome of our discussions with
the Group's bankers in respect of the
Seven Heads project loans and the | Ramco Energy plc
3
outcome of the appeal in the 
Tenge case, the auditors' report on 
the financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2003 refers 
to these uncertainties.
Ireland 
Although the Seven Heads gas field
commenced production at levels in
excess of our target, by the end of
January 2004 it was apparent that 
we had encountered major unforeseen
problems. Production continued to fall
in a series of stepped changes resulting
in an inability to meet our gas sales
nominations and, consequently, the
need for us to provide our gas buyer
with substitute gas from the UK. We
immediately commenced a detailed
technical review and have kept the
market informed through a series 
of Stock Exchange announcements.
The latest of these, on 20 May 2004,
provided shareholders with an extensive
update, confirming that the field was
purposefully being produced below its
maximum potential, at 25 mmscf/d, in
order to allow additional data acquisition
to assist the ongoing technical review. The
field is still producing at this rate, which
is generating sufficient revenue to cover
Ramco's operating and loan interest costs. 
Since project inception in 1999 
the investment model, which was 
the foundation for our major financial
commitment, had been reviewed and
endorsed by our in-house team, our
partners, third party reservoir engineers,
bankers and their technical advisers 
and our gas buyer and their technical
advisers. However, field performance
has undermined the reservoir model
upon which we based our decision 
to embark on the development. 
As a result of the poorer than 
expected production, we have
commenced discussions with our
bankers to restructure our existing
finance arrangements for the field. 
We are also in discussions with
interested third parties regarding the
funding of any additional expenditure
that may be recommended by the
technical review. Additionally we are 
in a position to enhance the future
potential from the Seven Heads
infrastructure through the extensive
additional acreage in the region that is
held by Ramco companies. The recently
announced farm-out option over the oil
potential which underlies the Seven
Heads gas field is an example of the
additional prospectivity in the region.
Montenegro
We remain enthusiastic about the
exploration potential in the Adriatic,
offshore Montenegro. Since Hellenic
Petroleum completed the acquisition 
of a majority stake in our joint venture
partner, the former state oil company,
Jugopetrol Kotor, our progress in the
region has accelerated. During the
fourth quarter of 2003 we acquired 
312 sq km of 3D seismic. The data
acquired was of high quality and the
interpretation phase has now been
completed. The results are encouraging,
generating further optimism about the
prospectivity of the area. 
The Ulcinj block offers a range of 
major prospects including shallow
Pleistocene and Pliocene gas and a
number of medium to deep very large
carbonate oil prospects. Most of these
could be drilled in water depth of no
more than 100m. We are finalising
plans for the drilling of an exploration
well to test the shallow gas prospects
Projects in Production:
Ireland
Projects in Exploration stage:
Ireland
Montenegro
Poland
Bulgaria | Ramco Energy plc
4
and are actively seeking a farm-in
partner to allow that work to be
completed by early next year. 
Oil Services
The results of our Tubular operations
were down on 2002, reflecting the slow
UK North Sea market, although this was
partially offset by an improved contribution
from Norwegian activity. Pipeline coating
activity benefited from a range of 
new projects including coating pipe for
Algeria, Trinidad and West Africa as well
as the UK. Overall, the Oil Services
division demonstrated its ability to
remain profitable even in difficult
market conditions.
Looking forward, the signs indicate 
a steady improvement supported by 
a three year extension to our cleaning
and logistics contract with Shell and
with activity levels in Japan expected to
increase following the renegotiation of our
contract with the JFE Steel Corporation. 
Outlook
The unforeseen problems encountered 
in Ireland have undeniably presented 
a major challenge to Ramco's Board 
and management. Regardless of the
many improvements in technology, the
exploration and production business 
is not an exact science. The history 
of exploration within both Seven Heads
and neighbouring fields, such as
Marathon's very successful Kinsale 
field, contributed to our confidence that
we understood the reservoir and thus
believed the project's risks to be within
tolerances which could be adequately
managed. This has not turned out to 
be the case and we have recognised 
this in the substantial provision against
the carrying value of the Group's
investment in this asset.
We are, however, taking positive action 
to stabilise our operational and financial
position. The Board and management
team remain committed to the Company
and our priority remains to derive the
maximum value from Seven Heads and
our other assets. I wish to take this
opportunity to thank them for their
dedication, loyalty and steadfastness.
This is a team that has created
significant value in the past and I 
am sure will do so again. Substantial
opportunity remains in the portfolio,
which has taken both skill and tenacity
to assemble, and our strategy remains 
to exploit that potential.
Stephen Remp
Executive Chairman
Chairman's Statement continued