 16 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
It is with pleasure that I write to you as your 
new Chairman to report on a year of significant 
progress for the Company.
The Board's agenda in 2013 was shaped by: (i) the 
transaction (the Separation Transaction ) to 
separate the Company from the Bakrie Group
1
 and 
dispose of its shareholding in PT Bumi Resources 
Tbk, and (ii) the internal reviews which culminated 
in an extensive review of the financial position 
at PT Berau and the enhancement of our 
internal controls.
This review of PT Berau resulted in the publication 
of 2012 audited financial statements being delayed 
and on 22 April 2013 the Board requested a 
temporary suspension of the Company's shares 
from trading. The Board was unanimous in its view 
that this was necessary to ensure a reliable set of 
accounts as a basis for restoring investor confidence 
in the Group.
On 31 May 2013, the Company published its 2012 
audited financial statements. In addition, the 
Company announced the review had uncovered 
evidence of payments made in 2011 and 2012 to 
the value of approximately US$201 million that could 
not be substantiated as having a clear business 
purpose as well as a further US$6 million in relation 
to payments made in January and February 2013, 
before new PT Berau management was appointed. 
In response to these findings, the Company 
announced that it would pursue all means available 
for the recovery of all relevant expenditure and, 
following enhancements to its internal controls, 
applied for the resumption of trading in its shares 
which took place on 22 July 2013.
In addition to devoting a considerable amount of 
time to these matters, management also focused 
on the core business which has demonstrated 
resilience notwithstanding the pressures of weak 
thermal coal prices.
We have increased production by 11.7% to 
23.5 million tonnes whilst maintaining costs level, 
despite higher local inflation. A number of other 
initiatives were launched to improve our operational 
cost profile.
As announced on 25 March 2014, we have now 
completed the Separation Transaction which marks 
a major milestone for the Company. This will allow 
the Company to focus on PT Berau, the fifth-largest 
thermal coal producer in Indonesia. The Board 
also intends to return at least $400 million 
to shareholders.
In 2013, the Company established a committee 
comprising the Independent Non-Executive 
Directors (INEDs ) to evaluate the Separation 
Transaction. This committee was advised by 
N.M. Rothschild & Sons Limited together with 
the Company's legal advisors. This committee, 
chaired by the then Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director (SID ) Sir Julian Horn-Smith, 
met extensively throughout 2013 in the discharge of 
its duties and, on behalf of the Company, I would like 
to thank all the INEDs who have been unstinting in 
the time they have been prepared to commit, often 
at short notice, to fulfil the duties of this committee 
regarding the Separation Transaction. 
We are committed to effective corporate governance 
and the Governance Report which starts on page 45 
is intended to give shareholders an understanding 
of our corporate governance arrangements and how 
the Company complied with the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code in 2013. 
As you will see from the Governance Report, the 
Board has been focused on addressing the 
challenges it has faced as result of non-compliance 
with certain of its policies and lack of disclosure by 
former PT Berau management. The Board made a 
priority of enhancing the control environment to 
better safeguard the Company's assets and has 
taken actions throughout the year to address 
these starting with the appointment of Nick von 
Schirnding, the first unaffiliated CEO of the 
Company, on 31 December 2012. It followed with 
the removal of certain directors of PT Berau, and 
then the initiation of internal reviews which led to 
its extensive review of the financial position at 
PT Berau and the associated enhancement of 
our internal controls.
On 22 January 2013, the Company announced that 
the independent investigation commissioned by the 
INEDs and conducted by Macfarlanes LLP (and 
reported in our 2012 Annual Report) had been 
completed and established a litigation committee, 
whose remit of reviewing all potential claims arising 
out of such investigation was extended during the 
year to include the review of potential claims and 
1  Being PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk and Long Haul Holdings Ltd together.
Chris Walton
Chairman 17 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
As your outgoing Chairman, I welcome the 
appointment of Chris Walton as the Company's 
new Chairman.
As described in Chris's statement, 2013 was 
a year of transformation for the Company 
and I would like to thank all my colleagues 
on the Board and all our employees for their 
commitment to the Company throughout 2013.
Samin Tan
Non-Executive Director
(and Chairman of the Company
from 26 March 2012 to 27 March 2014)
dealings with regulators arising out of the extensive 
review of PT Berau.
The Board, through this committee, continues to 
take all appropriate action open to it to pursue 
remedies, recover value where available and liaise 
with the relevant regulators in the United Kingdom 
(UK) and Indonesia. This includes the enforcement 
(through arbitration proceedings in Singapore) of 
the Company's rights under an agreement entered 
into with Rosan Roeslani on 26 June 2013 for the 
Company to recover $173 million in respect of 
payments made by PT Berau largely during 2011 
and 2012 that had no clear business purpose.
On 23 May 2013, the Company (through N.M. 
Rothschild & Sons Limited) reported to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) certain related party 
transactions which had been identified during the 
course of the above-mentioned reviews which were 
subsequently set out in the 2012 Annual Report. 
As announced on 4 November 2013, the FCA is 
investigating these transactions and the litigation 
committee is overseeing the Company's full 
cooperation with this investigation.
The Board also regards the Group's performance 
in health, safety, the environment and community 
affairs as a key element of its operational 
performance and a report on this key area can be 
found on page 28. Our focus remains on prioritising 
the health and safety of our employees, minimising 
the Group's environmental impact and engaging 
constructively with communities to create lasting 
economic and social value. 
As your new Chairman I would like to thank, on 
behalf of the Board, our outgoing Chairman Samin 
Tan who stepped down from his role as Chairman 
on 27 March 2014 but will remain on the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and the Company's business 
partner in Indonesia. I look forward to his continued 
contribution as a Non-Executive Director.
I would also like to thank the other Directors who 
have left the Board this year for their contribution, 
and in particular Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Lord Robin 
Renwick and Sir Graham Hearne all of whom have 
made significant contributions to the Company. 
We wish them well with their future endeavours.
The notice (AGM Notice ) for the 2014 annual 
general meeting (AGM ) of the Company will 
be issued shortly as a separate document. 
As previously announced, Steven Shapiro, an INED, 
has informed the Board that he will not be standing 
for re-election at the above-mentioned AGM.
During the period under review the Nomination 
Committee has been working on the restructuring of 
the Board. This led to the appointment of Nick Salmon 
and me as INEDs on 1 January 2014 and Mr Salmon's 
appointment as SID on 1 February 2014. This process 
is ongoing and further appointments will continue to 
be considered and, where appropriate, announced 
including in connection with the nomination rights 
under the relationship agreements described in the 
section of the Directors' Report entitled Appointment 
and replacement of Directors  on page 77. 
In the meantime on 27 March 2014: Nick Salmon joined 
the Audit, HSEC and Remuneration Committees; 
all INEDs became members of the Nomination 
Committee and I succeeded Sir Julian Horn-Smith 
as chairman of the Nomination Committee. Also, in 
accordance with the terms of the Borneo Relationship 
Agreement (as defined and described in the Directors' 
Report), Samin Tan has become a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Finally, I would like to thank all our employees for 
their hard work throughout a challenging year 
where the extensive changes, management 
initiatives and repeated publicity have placed 
unprecedented demands on all staff. I would also 
like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their 
ongoing commitment to the Company and, as your 
new Chairman, I look forward to the challenges 
and opportunities that lie ahead.
Chris Walton
Chairman