 08   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
In the eight years since the
start of the new millennium,
the price of gold has gone
up by more than 200%, with
a surge of 37% last year
alone. Over the same period,
the FTSE-100, the London
Stock Exchange's main
index, has lost about 15%
of its value.
When gold reached a new high of US$894 per ounce
on 11 January 2008, the Financial Times editorialised
that the metal - largely written off a decade earlier as
a barbarous relic with no place in a world of electronic
money - had re-established itself as the main global
currency after a seven-year bull run that shows no
sign of slowing down.  Clearly, a large number of
people, sophisticated investors as well as ordinary
savers, have been abandoning conventional assets
for the comfort of gold, a store of value for more than
5 000 years.
Some argue that the soaring gold price is being driven
by temporary anxiety over political and financial turmoil:
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the prospect of a nuclear
Iran, a newly assertive Russia and the sub-prime
banking crisis.  There may well be an element of
panic in the rush to gold, but a stronger and more
enduring factor is the investors' fear of the long term
consequences of uncertain monetary policies and
in particular of the speed at which the governments
are printing money.  By contrast, there is a finite
supply of gold, and that keeps it an honest, stable
store of value.
All the world's major economies have experienced
a rapid money supply growth of 10% or more per
year in recent years.  This is a compelling reason for
prudent long term investors to turn to gold as a hedge
against rising global inflation and persistent dollar
weakness.  Increasing investor demand is graphically
illustrated by the growth in gold exchange traded
funds (ETFs) - 34% up last year and now, with
865 tonnes of the metal, the world's seventh largest
holder of physical bullion.  And it is not just investment
demand that is rising; the gold price is also supported
by strong jewellery buying by the growing middle
class in countries such as India and China.  Gold
jewellery sales in India - already the world's largest
gold consumer, accounting for more than 20% of
global demand - jumped by almost 40% in the first
nine months of last year.
While the demand keeps going up, the supply is
diminishing.  Gold mine production fell 7%, from
2 621 tonnes to 2 450 tonnes, between 2001 and
2007 and is likely to continue diminishing, constrained
by both the lack of viable new projects and rising
production costs.
Chairman's statement
08
1 The Loulo underground
extraction strategy has been
focused on accessing the
orebodies in a safe and
considered manner. The sustained bull run has stampeded
the mining industry and its followers into
a frantic scramble to cash in while the
good times last.  For some of them it will
be a case of too little or too late: there are
few good projects around and those will
typically take five to ten years from
discovery to production.  Others have no
real interest in digging for gold and are
mining the markets instead.
Randgold Resources, by contrast,
believed in gold when it was not
fashionable to do so.  In the mid-Nineties,
when the price languished below US$300
per ounce and most mining companies
withdrew into survival mode, Randgold
Resources not only continued to run
extensive exploration programmes but made
bold development decisions and put its
balance sheet at risk to fund them.  It did so
because management was focused on
building a long term business rather than
merely getting through the next quarter.
That clarity of vision and strength of strategic
purpose produced a company that has
grown from a market capitalisation of
US$147 million to over US$3.5 billion in the
short space of ten years; that has been able
to bring production on line just as the gold
price started taking off; and that has the
capability to expand its resources and output
in years to come.
From the start, Randgold Resources has
been a strategically driven business:
constantly analysing its environment, devising
scenarios and developing or adjusting plans
for success in a changing world.  Two years
ago, its management decided to align its
business strategy with a scenario which
predicted a high gold price coupled to rising
production costs.  To meet this challenge,
they stepped up the search for resource
ounces and strengthened the company's
cost controls.  New business initiatives were
intensified, the development of the Tongon
project was accelerated, procurement
policies were tightened and overhead
expenses pruned.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   09
1 Philippe Li tard
Chairman
10   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
These timely measures have equipped the
company uniquely well to take full advantage
of the opportunities and to manage the
difficulties presented by exacting operating
conditions.
In line with its emphasis on long term
sustainability rather than short term
advantage, Randgold Resources has since
its inception invested substantially and
consistently not only in its physical assets
but also in the development of its partnerships
and its people.
That is why the theme of this year's annual
report is The Power of People and
Partnerships .  It pays tribute to the productive
and mutually beneficial relationships
Randgold Resources has forged with its
host countries.  In Mali alone, the
company has, through operations it has
developed, invested and reinvested more
than US$1 billion, paid in excess of
US$500 million directly to the government
in dividends, royalties and taxes, equipped
more than 3 000 people with skills and
careers and made a substantial contribution
to infrastructural development and community
upliftment.
As an African-focused business, Randgold
Resources is keenly aware that for Africa to
prosper from its mineral wealth, it needs to
embark without delay on a process designed
to use the mining industry as the foundation
for building its economies.  To succeed in
this, the leaders of government and industry
will have to cooperate and demonstrate the
vision, courage and perseverance of true
pioneers.
Mining companies should accept that when
they operate in Africa, they do not only have
an obligation to deliver returns to investors;
they also have a social responsibility to help
the people of that continent to realise their
hopes of a better life.  Among other things,
this means that they must plan for and
commit to the long term.  Instead of creating
exaggerated expectations around projects
that are marginal at best, they should
concentrate on the development of
realistic business models and viable
feasibility studies.  They should reinvest for
sustainability and deal honestly with their
host governments not only as regulators but
also as partners.
Governments for their part should maintain
a fiscal and legislative regime that is
conducive to mining development, make a
tangible contribution to infrastructural creation
and, not least, ensure that the substantial
revenues they earn from the mining industry
are shared equitably with their people.
As detailed elsewhere in this report, the
company remains committed to the
responsible utilisation of natural resources
and the protection of the environment, and
seeks wherever possible to minimise the
negative and maximise the positive impacts
of its activities.  It has formal programmes in
place to achieve these aims, and these
comply with the standards of the World Bank
as well as those of its host countries.  All
new projects include a comprehensive
environmental and social impact assessment.
At Tongon in C te d'Ivoire, for example, an
assessment of this kind on the proposed
new mine is currently being used as the
basis for an extensive consultative process
with the local community and the regional
authorities.
The people and partnerships theme also
acknowledges the critical importance of the
Randgold Resources team to the business'
continued success.  The highly developed
skills, passionate commitment and
enthusiastic cooperation of the men and
women in the field, at the operations and in
the corporate offices - some of whom are
featured in this report - have enabled the
company to seize opportunities and surmount
obstacles.
The past year was again a very busy one
for the company and it had its share of
challenges.  The fact that Randgold
Resources has nevertheless produced a
very creditable set of results is a tribute to
the enterprise, dedication and sheer hard
work of Mark Bristow and every member of
the team.  On behalf of the board, I thank
them for another fine effort.  On the subject
of the teams, Graham Shuttleworth replaced
Roger Williams as chief financial officer in
the course of the year and the new business
and exploration teams were reorganised.
New and additional skills were recruited at
various levels in the capital projects,
exploration, operation, finance and
administration units.  Overall, these teams
now represent an optimum balance of youth
and experience, giving the company a very
sound and constantly reinvigorated
management and skills base.
I wish to record our appreciation to the
governments and people of the countries in
which the company operates; they are not
only our hosts but our highly valued partners.
I thank our shareholders for their continued
support, and our partners, suppliers, advisors
and other business associates for the
contribution they made to the company's
progress.  I would also like to express my
gratitude to my colleagues on the board for
their sage counsel.
In addition to the normal business which is
to be transacted at the company's annual
general meeting on 28 April 2008, your
board is seeking shareholder approval for
an increase in the authorised share capital
and of the Randgold Resources Limited
Restricted Share Scheme.  Details can be
found in the notice to shareholders. Rod Quick
Group general manager, project development
and evaluation
Joined Randgold Resources as an exploration
geologist on greenfields programmes in Mali
and Senegal in 1996.  As country geologist for
C te d'Ivoire, he oversaw the prefeasibility
study on Tongon from 2001 to 2003, then
worked as resource evaluation geologist on
Loulo and Morila, becoming mineral resource
manager at Loulo in 2005 and taking up his
current position - evaluating all new projects -
in 2007.
I've spent the past 10 years helping to find
and develop major gold deposits, with the
expansion and delineation of the Tongon
orebody and the expansion of the Loulo
resource as stand-out experiences.  The
opportunity of making a significant contribution
to a winning team is what gets me out of bed
in the morning. 
Boar Board and management d and management Board and management