 I am pleased to report the results of reach4entertainment enterprises plc (the Group  or r4e ) for the 13 month
financial period ended 31 December 2011.
Following the announcement made on 23 January 2012, shareholders will be aware that the accounting period was
extended to align the Group's accounting and reporting dates to ones more relevant to the media sector, and to align
the reporting dates of the remaining core businesses within the Group following the restructuring and disposals
undertaken during 2011.
The Group reports a loss for the 13 month period of  2.92 million, an improvement of  4.89 million against losses
of  7.81 million for the year ended 30 November 2010.
The Group has continued its restructuring programme to focus on its core business units: New York based Spot &
Company of Manhattan Inc, (SpotCo ), London based companies Dewynters Ltd (Dewynters ) and Newman
Displays Ltd (Newmans ) and the New York based merchandising operations of Dewynters Advertising Inc.
(DAI ). By focusing on these businesses, the aim is to cement r4e's position as a highly-focused, transatlantic
media and entertainment company.
The restructuring initiatives undertaken during the period included the sale of non-core business assets and strategic
investment totalling  2.5 million by Pivot Entertainment LLC. In addition the company successfully raised
 4.0 million via placings in February and March 2011 while it also significantly reduced bank debt.
r4e is confident that by focusing on the strengths of its core businesses, and by further stripping out overheads, it
will emerge as a more streamlined and dynamic company.
Restructuring Initiatives
Restructuring and divestment initiatives included the sales of non-core businesses (The Finishing Touch (Corporate
Events) Ltd, and First Artist Sport Ltd), and a move to start winding up the remaining operation of the Sport division,
Promosport SrL, the Italian based football management agency.
Activities directed at restoring the financial and management strength of the Group during this reporting period
include:
          Strategic investment in December 2010 by Pivot Entertainment LLC of $4.0 million ( 2.5 million);
          Share placings in February and March 2011 raising a total of  4.0 million (before expenses);
          Conclusion and announcement of a new  14.8 million revolving credit facility with Allied Irish Bank in May
2011, achieving a reduction in bank debt from the 2010 year end value of  18.0 million;
          Recomposition of the Board involving the appointments of David Stoller as Executive Chairman and Shirley
Stapleton as Finance Director. Appointments of Non-Executive Directors Marcus Yeoman in May 2011 and
Richard Ingham in August 2011, following the departure of Jon and Phil Smith. Jeremy Barbera was
appointed Chief Executive Officer during December 2010 but has since left the company following the
period end in March 2012.
Continuing Operations
I will now turn to the performance of the continuing operations.
The Group will retain its focus on the established theatre marketing businesses in London of Dewynters and
Newmans and SpotCo and DAI in New York.
The London theatre marketing business of Dewynters continued to build on its established platform of long running
and successful shows such as Phantom Of The Opera, Les Miserables, The Lion King, Mamma Mia!, Wicked and
We Will Rock You. In addition, new events worked on included the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals at the O2 and
several new shows, including Million Dollar Quartet, Wizard of Oz, Betty Blue Eyes, and Ghost: The Musical,
together with several plays and other shows of shorter scheduled runs.
reach4entertainment enterprises plc
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
3 For Dewynters, 2011 was a year of investment and consolidation. Whilst this had some impact on short term
profitability, it has resulted in a strong platform from which to deliver growth. It has established a solid base and
healthy book of new business including West End shows such as Singin' in The Rain, Masterclass, Jackie Mason
The Farewell Tour, and the soon to open Top Hat, The Browning Version, What the Butler Saw, Written on The
Heart and other clients including the rebranding of the British Film Institute and brand launch of a new theatre, the
St James's.
On a like for like basis, Newmans has reported a small decline in revenues over the period and a commensurate
decline in operating profits. The business has been impacted by disruption from on-going construction work
associated with the redevelopment of Leicester Square which is an important focal point for many of its clients and
events. This has led to both a reduction in the number of premieres and events there and is coupled with an increase
in costs of delivery for those that are undertaken. Despite these challenges, Newmans continues to deliver many
high profile and successful events such as the premiere for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part II, The
London Film Festival and work done at the Cannes Film Festival. To offset these issues Newmans has been exploring
development opportunities which have resulted in projects in several new areas involving theatre refurbishment
and more work with events companies which are generating positive results.
The New York theatre marketing operations of SpotCo delivered strong growth from its award winning client base
during the period. Shows supported by SpotCo included three of the four nominees for the Best Musical Tony
Award: Catch Me If You Can, The Scottsboro Boys and Sister Act. Spotco clients also included the Tony Award
winner for Best Musical Revival Anything Goes. During the reporting period, SpotCo was hired to provide the
advertising for the New York launch of Cirque Du Soleil's Zarkana at Radio City Music Hall and continued to
handle the Radio City Christmas Spectacular as well as achieving success with shows such as Baby It's You,
Memphis, Book of Mormon and events such as Wintuk and an ongoing relationship with the Manhattan Theater
Club. During the period under review, SpotCo continued to grow its Marketing and Promotion department, working
on the marketing for the launch of NBC's television production Smash, and growing the number of Broadway
shows it produces content for.
The period under review has presented several challenges for DAI arising from the closure of long running shows
for which it has provided merchandising services. This has resulted in a decline in both revenue and profitability.
New business opportunities continue to be sought, whilst a review of the future of this business will be undertaken.
Post Period Events
In addition to continuing to work with its normal base of clients in theatre and film, the Group has continued to
develop new, high profile client relationships in events and productions. These new client relationships have begun
to impact revenue since period end, signalling a strong beginning for the new financial year.
In addition the Group has launched several promising new initiatives in licensing, theatrical events, promotional
events and new talent sponsorship, which represent significant opportunities for value creation and expansion.
The Company announced a change of name from Pivot Entertainment Group plc to reach4entertainment enterprises
plc (r4e ) signalling a change in the strategy and management of the Group, featuring a powerful spirit of shared
enterprise among the Group's transatlantic operating companies.
The Group announced the departure of Chief Executive, Jeremy Barbera from the Board with effect from 15 March
2012. From this date David Stoller assumed the responsibility of Chief Executive in addition to his existing role of
Executive Chairman for an interim period. On 10 May 2012, Mr Barbera's shareholding of 8,400,000 ordinary
shares was transferred to Stoller Family Partners LLP.
Outlook
2011 was a period of significant restructuring and reshaping of the Group. That work is nearing completion, and
the focus now is on driving the growth of r4e's core arts and entertainment businesses: Spotco, Dewynters, Newmans
and reshaped DAI on conclusion of the business review which is currently underway; establishing new, high profile
relationships in events and productions in London and New York; and leveraging the capabilities of the Group,
reach4entertainment enterprises plc
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
4 particularly in the digital space. This dedicated division will expand and leverage existing digital and social media
capabilities and develop complementary assets and capabilities with the objective of becoming a multi-platform
provider of digitally delivered services, products and content.
This renewed focus on the Group's strengths and the stripping out of unwanted overheads should result in solid
growth for the company in 2012.
David Stoller
Executive Chairman
29 May 2012
reach4entertainment enterprises plc
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
5