 3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Introduction
I am pleased to present our annual report for the year ended 31 March 2009 and I am particularly pleased to
report that the progress revealed in the half yearly statement has been more than maintained so that we have
met almost all our financial objectives for the year.
Financial Overview
Compared with the last financial year revenue has increased by 20% to  3,320,725 from  2,763,148 and an
operating profit of  583,725 has been achieved, in complete contrast to a loss of  293,590 last year. Whilst
currency movements have played a part as we enjoyed a gain of  97,374 in the year compared to a loss of
 42,082 last year, nonetheless this represents very substantial progress. Initially the improvement was largely
down to reducing costs, but in recent months significant improvement has also come about from the growth
of the business, which has been achieved with only modest increases in the cost base. The Board believe that
the growth enjoyed last year in the red24 business can be sustained and will return value to shareholders. I
congratulate Maldwyn Worsley-Tonks and his team on achieving the goals set for them by the Board last year.
The improved trading performance has been assisted by a strengthened balance sheet, where the much
improved position is valued by our customers. Our net worth has increased by  390,000 without recourse to
capital markets, and we have over  600,000 of cash on the balance sheet at the year end, despite repaying
one third of the loan stock immediately prior to the year end. The remaining loan note holders have agreed to
an extension of the notes to 30 September 2010, though this is subject to shareholders approval of the
associated warrants. If for any reason this is not forthcoming the loan notes will be repaid in September 2009
and the accounts have been prepared on that basis as we have no wish to treat shareholders approval as a
foregone conclusion. Sidebell Limited have, in view of the significant costs associated with a circular to
shareholders seeking a waiver from a bid obligation should their stake go above 30%, undertaken not to
exercise any such warrants if doing so would trigger a bid obligation.
I am also pleased to report that the resolutions passed at the AGM to cancel the deferred shares have been
approved by the Scottish Court. The underlying objective of this action is to make it possible to pay dividends
should our future progress so warrant.
red24
red24 is a global security service providing preventative and reactive advice to help individuals avoid and
manage personal risks to themselves and their families.
We have adopted a modular approach in our business strategy, matching staff responsibilities to this, thereby
enabling us to meet market demand, particularly in relation to the travel industry. Whilst our focus remains on
the core business of security management, we are now able, through our partnerships with other travel service
providers, to offer a much broader range of assistance products to our customers. This allows us to include
not only security related services but also more general assistance whilst travelling.
Although our two key distribution channels remain through HSBC and AIU Holdings, we have had a clear
strategic aim over the year to broaden our customer base and are very pleased with the number of new
customers taking services from us. New business is running ahead of budget and we continue to add new
features to the products. This will continue to be the focus for the coming year where we are confident that
the travel industry, international corporations and the financial sector all hold significant potential for us to
expand. Whilst the revenues generated from each new customer may not individually be material, collectively
they are starting to show a marked improvement in revenue streams.
215112 RED24 pp01-pp19  11/6/09  12:59  Page 3 red24plc
4
HSBC provide red24 services as part of HSBC's Premier and Plus banking offerings. The enhanced HSBC
Plus account,  Club Class Banking', was widely advertised in a recent national campaign and the red24
product was mentioned by name throughout. We continue to provide a relocation service for the bank's
Passport account to assist customers arriving in UK for the first time. More recently we have increased our
services to HSBC Global Premier members providing all customers worldwide with an overview and risk
evaluation for countries to which they may be travelling. Since the year end First Direct's First Directory
account holders have also been added to the red24 service.
AIG Travel Assist, through the newly formed AIU Holdings Ltd, is responsible for the distribution of our
products throughout the AIG group to the global travel market. Despite the turbulent year experienced by AIG,
our product is valued by a number of AIG operating companies and we have enjoyed significant growth in
revenue from them in the year, particularly in North America. Our distribution agreement with AIG Travel Assist
has just over two years to run, but we believe that we will be able thereafter to continue to expand our
business in the travel market through AIU Holdings.
The launch of our Travel Tracker  service earlier this year, which enables a company to be advised of the
location of an employee travelling overseas, thereby providing reassurance and, if necessary, assistance, has
been well received. We have further enhanced this service by including the ability to offer a global tracking
service via a satellite phone system.
Our consulting business continues to develop and we now support three underwriting organisations at Lloyds
of London and in the North American market, all of which were new contracts in 2008. This improvement in
our relationships in the insurance market has been greatly assisted by our decision to move into the City within
the last year. New business has been developed with a number of other entities providing security related
services, including evacuation planning for those operating in medium to high risk countries.
Overall we have made good progress in expanding our customer base and further enhancing the product
offering. This has led to a significant improvement across all the red24 companies.
Training
The Arc Training International Academy for Security Management is one of the UK's leading provider of
security management training courses and one of the best-known international security management training
companies in the world. The courses offer a range of qualification, education, training and certification routes
for full-time security professionals and for managers for whom security is one of their key responsibilities. The
2009 programme has been published and there has been a good response to the discounts offered for early
booking. In addition we have worked hard to develop an international side to the business running courses
abroad where venue costs are much lower. Further we are working towards global partnerships with other
training companies in order to increase training capacity in key regions of the world.
Although our training business has grown by some 16% from last year's record level of sales, this is largely
due to the timing of a popular course which took place in March this year, but last year was held in May.
Without this underlying growth was more like 5%. Furthermore profitability has suffered as the downturn puts
pressure on margins. That said we have seen significant growth in the training business year on year and there
is every possibility that this will continue.
215112 RED24 pp01-pp19  11/6/09  12:59  Page 4 5
Outlook
The Board are most encouraged by the very solid progress the business has been making and would hope
that, despite the negligible impact the progress has had on the share price, shareholders are similarly
impressed. Since the business is now cash positive the Board have no current need to access the market for
capital and potential investors will need to buy shares in the market if they wish to be part of the company.
This should have a positive impact on the share price and, hopefully, should lead the market to value the
business more highly. In the meantime, the Board are considering what practical steps can be taken to draw
the attention of potential investors to the company. A first step has been to appoint Seymour Pierce as Nomad
and Broker to the company, which took effect last month.
Staff
It is with great regret that I have to announce the death of David Hill, who, frequently, was the public face of
red24 on television. In addition to the wisdom and experience he brought to the group, he made a great
contribution to public awareness of the red24 brand and will be sorely missed.
The staff have contributed significantly to the progress made by the group and have embraced the strategy
of the Board, firstly to stabilise the business and then seek to grow it in a sustainable manner. The Board are
most grateful to the staff for their hard work in achieving this and are confident that many of them will choose
to continue to build their careers with the group,
Simon Richards
Chairman
10 June 2009
215112 RED24 pp01-pp19  11/6/09  12:59  Page 5