 Business review
6
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
Chairman's statement
Redrow has demonstrated that despite the challenging
conditions we have been able to grow the business substantially. 
Introduction
In spite of the difficulties facing the home building industry Redrow
has delivered a robust performance with pre-tax profits improving
from  0.7m to  25.3m. The principal constraint was, once again, the
availability of mortgages, particularly for first time buyers. Although
Redrow has returned to its traditional position of a middle market
home builder, our customers in turn are dependent on the stimulus
first time buyers give to the market.  
Financial Results
Group revenue increased by 14% in the year to 30 June 2011. This
was largely due to a 10.4% increase in our average selling price from
 149,300 to  164,800, together with a 1.5% increase in legal
completions from 2,587 to 2,626. The average selling price of private
homes - 87.5% of completions - increased by 12.5% from
 154,800 to  174,100.
Gross margin rose from 10.5% in 2010 to 14.2% primarily as a
result of the change in product mix, tight control of build costs and
the growing proportion of newer land at more normal margins.
Operating profit increased 146% to  31.2m, generating an
operating margin of 6.9% (2010: 3.2%), in spite of the significant
investment and additional overhead of our new London Division,
which was set up at the beginning of the financial year. 
With a much reduced interest charge following the 2009 Rights
Issue, we delivered a pre-tax profit of  25.3m compared to  0.7m in
2010, and earnings per share of 4.4p (2010: 0.2p).
Our balance sheet remains strong, with net debt of  75.4m giving
gearing of 16% (2010: 11%).
No dividend is being declared for the year in line with the Board's
strategy of only paying a dividend once the Group has an
appropriate level of earnings cover and taking into account the need
to invest in land for our future development.
Structure
We have made two major changes to the structure of the Group in
2011.
Firstly, we set up a Division focused on prime London locations.
London is a strong market with considerable international as well as
domestic demand. In the first year of operating, we have secured
five sites with a total of 342 plots and a gross development value of
approximately  200m.
Secondly, in April we announced our intention to withdraw from the
Scottish market in which we were a relatively small player in order
to increase our investment and management focus on the rest of
the business and the South East in particular. The disposal was
completed at the end of June with the sale of the business at book
value to Springfield plc.
Market and New Heritage
The housing market, which was particularly challenging in the first
half of the financial year, improved in the second half with a
stronger spring/summer season. Sales rate per outlet increased from
0.47 per week in the first half to 0.60 per week in the second half
and the value of private reservations for the same periods increased
from  172m to  244m. Overall underlying selling prices remained
stable throughout the financial year.
This was the first full financial year since the launch of our New
Heritage Collection in February 2010 and its positive impact is clear
from the results. The Collection accounted for 36% of our private
turnover in 2011. In the second half, it accounted for 41% of private
turnover and over 50% of private reservations by value. The average
selling price of a New Heritage home increased by 11% to  201,000
as we continue to focus on delivering what Redrow has built its
reputation on - good value, traditional family homes. Homes from
the New Heritage Collection are achieving an average selling price
Steve Morgan
Chairman
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information 8
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
around 7% higher than the equivalent size home in the old
Signature range.
We have sold virtually all of the remaining plots in our Debut and In
the City ranges and have now exited these product lines.
A key priority remains the opening of new sales outlets. On a like for
like basis, excluding Scotland, we have increased the number of
outlets by 8 to 74 and our end of year private order book increased
by 17% to  114m.
Mortgages
Our cancellation rate for 2011 was 18%, similar to that of 2010. Y et
again, the overwhelming cause of cancellations was mortgage
issues, particularly the poor availability of high loan to value (LTV)
mortgages at competitive rates. Whilst the number of high LTV
mortgage products on offer has increased during the year, it is still
well below historic levels and the stringency of the credit scoring by
the lenders, combined with the high interest rates being charged,
make them unattainable for all but the more affluent of first time
buyers.
Going forward it is essential to find a balance between the
regulatory risk weighting of higher LTV mortgages and the
aspirations of first time buyers (FTB) who simply don't have the
current average deposit requirement of 25% to purchase their first
home. Historically, this gap was filled by the lender transferring the
top 15-20% credit risk on its loans to a Mortgage Indemnity
Guarantee (MIG) provided by a Local Government or insurance
company. Generations of home buyers throughout the 20th
Century benefited from this policy, with 90-95% mortgages being
the norm. 
Now that risk assessment and management are rightly back at the
forefront of lending, the reintroduction of up to date MIG policies
would ensure a better market balance between affordability for first
time buyers and the risk taken by the lenders. Unless initiatives such
as MIGs are reintroduced, the current low levels of turnover in the
housing market are set to stay for some time.
During the 1930s and the post-war years, the significant home
building activity of the time not only provided desperately needed
new homes, it also provided a huge stimulus to the UK GDP during
what were difficult economic periods. With five new jobs being
created for every new home built, it is strongly in our country's
interest to resolve the FTB mortgage issue, which would once again
enable the housing industry to provide urgently needed new homes
and a major stimulus to the economy.
Land and Planning
Redrow is well on the way to re-establishing itself as a premium mid
market quality home builder with high specification, larger than
average family homes. Accordingly, the nature and average plot cost
of our land acquisitions has changed to suit this strategy.
During the year we added 2,367 plots which, after legal
completions, the disposal of the Scottish business, land sales and
replans has resulted in a land bank of 11,190 plots at the end of
June 2011. This equates to approximately 4.5 years supply
compared to 5 years in June 2010 and our target of c.4 years. The
average plot cost has increased from  34,000 to  49,000 to reflect
our focus in the marketplace and our investment during the year in
prime London locations.
The Group's forward land bank contributed only 200 plots to
current land in the year, as planning on many sites stalled due to
Local Authorities delaying decisions awaiting new planning guidance
from the Government. Now that this guidance is emerging we are
hopeful that significant progress will be made in the current year.
The forward land bank stands at just over 22,000 plots, little
changed from last year.
The Government published the draft National Planning Policy
Framework (NPPF) on 25 July for consultation containing 'a
presumption in favour of sustainable development' as the golden
thread running through the policy. We warmly welcome the
objectives of the draft NPPF and fully support its general direction
of travel in its attempt to strike a balance into the planning system.
Hopefully the NPPF will result in a boost to the number of planning
permissions being granted for housing at a time when current
permissions are at worryingly low levels.
People
Redrow has made tremendous progress in the last 12 months
despite the market conditions, which is a testament to the efforts of
the whole Redrow team. I would like to thank all of them for their
support as we continue our goal of re-establishing Redrow as the
leading premier homebuilder in the UK.
Current Trading
The market remains uncertain, with sales rates broadly similar to
last year at just over 0.5 sales per outlet per week. We do, however,
have 4 more outlets than this time last year, excluding Scotland,
which has resulted in reservations in the first nine weeks of the
current year being 8% above last year's levels. Terms have been
agreed on a number of new significant land opportunities, which in
time will result in further increases in our average selling price.
Outlook
The outlook for the industry remains challenging, with the lack of
mortgage supply and general economic incertitude affecting what is
undoubtedly a huge demand for new housing. The under-supply of
housing in the UK is reaching chronic proportions as many recent
reports have testified. The ongoing stability of house prices despite