 04 Chairman and Chief Executive's report
Chairman and Chief Executive's report
Highlights of the year
Strong financial performance for 2007
Good momentum and significant plans to
accelerate growth
Major reshaping of portfolio
Sale of Harcourt Education now completed
Planned divestment of Reed Business Information
Agreed  2.1 billion/e2.8 billion acquisition
of ChoicePoint, Inc
Significantly expands position in fast growing 
risk information and analytics marketplace
Significant restructuring programme
More cohesive business delivering important
cost efficiencies 05 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007
We are very pleased to report on a year of significant achievement and strategic
development for Reed Elsevier. Our businesses performed well in their markets
and saw rapid growth in our online information services and customer workflow
solutions. The financial performance was strong, with good organic revenue growth
and margin improvement, high cash generation and a further step-up in return on
invested capital. We also significantly reshaped the business portfolio with the very
successful  2.5 billion/a3.6 billion sale of the Harcourt Education division and
subsequent return of the net proceeds to shareholders.
In the new financial year we have stepped up the momentum with the
announcement of important plans to accelerate growth: the planned divestment 
of the Reed Business Information trade magazines and information businesses 
to reduce our exposure to advertising markets and their cyclicality; the agreed 
 2.1 billion/a2.8 billion acquisition of ChoicePoint Inc. in the fast growing risk
information and analytics market; and a major restructuring programme to 
deliver substantial cost savings over and above our regular annual improvements 
in cost effectiveness.
The changes we are making create a more cohesive and synergistic business with
stronger, more consistent growth prospects to drive further shareholder value.
Strong business and financial performance
We have made good progress over the last year in business performance.
Investment against our online growth and workflow solutions strategy is paying off
in the good revenue momentum. Together with our cost initiatives, this is driving
underlying margin improvement and a strong earnings performance. The decline of
the US dollar takes some shine off the earnings growth expressed in sterling and
euros, but the strength of the underlying performance is very encouraging with
2007 seeing the highest constant currency earnings growth of the last 10 years.
Revenues were up 6%, adjusted operating profits up 11% and adjusted earnings per
share up 12% at constant currencies, with good performances seen across all the
businesses. Online information services and workflow solutions grew 11% and
accounted for nearly 50% of revenues, reflecting the success of our investment-led
digital growth strategy.
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the strong cash flow, with
97% of adjusted operating profits converting into cash, and a 0.8 percentage point
increase in return on invested capital to 11.8% post tax.
>
Important plans to
accelerate growth
>
Online growth and
workflow solutions
strategy paying off 06 Chairman and Chief Executive's report
Chairman and Chief Executive's report continued
Major reshaping and strengthening of the portfolio
We are implementing an important reshaping of the Reed Elsevier portfolio, 
with the strategic goal of moving more of our assets away from slower growth,
more cyclical advertising/print based sectors, and more towards faster growth, 
less cyclical online based sectors. Consequently in 2007 we sold the Harcourt
Education business, and now plan the divestment of the Reed Business trade
magazine and information businesses (RBI), and the acquisition of the online risk
analytics business of ChoicePoint. Together these moves create a more consistent,
cohesive and synergistic business and accelerate growth.
The Harcourt Education business was sold for  2.5 billion/a3.6 billion in two
separate transactions that have now completed, representing 21 times 2006
adjusted operating profits and realising a substantial gain. After taxation and other
costs related to the sale, the estimated net proceeds of  2.0 billion/a2.7 billion were
distributed to shareholders on 18 January 2008.
The planned divestment of RBI is a further major step in our portfolio development.
Although RBI has had considerable success in developing high-growth online
services, its advertising revenue model, accounting for approximately 60% of
revenues, and the inherent cyclicality fit less well with the subscription-based
information and workflow solutions focus of Reed Elsevier's strategy.
In addition to reshaping the business through disposals, we are strengthening the
business through organic investment and acquisition, most notably with the agreed
acquisition of ChoicePoint Inc. (2007 revenues  491 million/a717 million) expected
to be completed later in the year. This represents a major further step in the
building of our risk management business and in the development of Reed
Elsevier's online workflow solutions strategy. 
The market growth in risk information and analytics is highly attractive and
ChoicePoint brings important assets and market positions that fit well with our 
very successful LexisNexis risk information and analytics group. ChoicePoint's
insurance services business in particular has seen strong consistent growth, and,
through the combination of ChoicePoint's highly regarded data and analytics assets
and our leading LexisNexis risk technology, we can further develop compelling
offerings for our customers and realise significant synergy benefits. The acquisition
will accelerate Reed Elsevier's revenue and profit growth and deliver a good and
growing return on capital.
Whilst we look to maintain capital efficiency through a progressive dividend policy and
the annual share repurchase programme, our balance sheet strength ensures that
Reed Elsevier can access the most cost effective sources of borrowing and supports
our strategic ambition in evolving professional publishing and information markets.
>
More consistent,
cohesive and
synergistic business 
to accelerate growth
>
Major further 
step in building 
risk management
business 07 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007
Major restructuring programme to accelerate growth
The move to a more cohesive portfolio provides us with the opportunity to
accelerate progress in consolidating and streamlining our technology, operations
and back office support. In doing so, Reed Elsevier becomes a more integrated
company with significant savings in our cost structure. The restructuring plan
announced has an attractive payback and will make a meaningful addition to
margin and earnings growth.
The principal focus of the restructuring is on technology, operations, development
engineering, production, procurement, customer service, finance and
administration. Some of these savings will be used to fund additional investment
in new product, sales and marketing to take advantage of the growing 
opportunities for workflow solutions in our markets and to build further 
competitive differentiation.
The plan is targeted to deliver a total of  245 million/a335 million of cost savings
over the next four years, with progressive net annual savings reaching  100
million/a135 million in 2011 over and above the normal expected annual margin
improvement and additional investment. The exceptional restructuring costs 
are estimated to be approximately  140million/a190million, with a cash payback 
of 2.5 years.
Earnings per share and dividends
At reported exchange rates, adjusted earnings per share were up 7% for Reed
Elsevier PLC at 35.9p and up 5% for Reed Elsevier NV at a0.80. (The lower growth
than the 12% at constant currencies reflects the 9% year on year decline in the US
dollar against both sterling and the euro.)
Reported earnings per share were up 94% to 49.7p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 
up 86% to a1.10 for Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting the strong underlying operating
performance together with the gain on the sale of Harcourt Education and 
other businesses.
The Boards are recommending an increase in the equalised final dividends of 
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV of 15% and 2% respectively, to give total
dividends for the year up 14% and 5%. (The differential growth rates reflect the
sharp movement in the sterling/euro exchange rate particularly since the 2006 final
dividend proposal in February 2007.)
Dividends paid in the year, together with share buybacks under the annual share
repurchase programme, distributed  615 million/a898 million to shareholders,
representing 86% of free cash flow.
>
A more integrated
company with 
significant savings 08 Chairman and Chief Executive's report
Chairman and Chief Executive's report continued
Board changes
Strauss Zelnick retired from the Boards in December 2007 after three years of
service due to his increasing business commitments in the US. His wide ranging
media experience has benefited us in many ways and we thank him for his
insightful contribution in that time. Rolf Stomberg retires at the Annual General
Meetings after nine years of service, including serving as senior independent
director and chairman of the remuneration committee. He has been an invaluable
member of the Boards through a period of significant change for Reed Elsevier 
and we thank him for his substantial contribution.
Outlook
Going into 2008, conditions remain generally favourable in our markets with strong
subscription renewals and good revenue momentum for online information and
workflow solutions. The business magazines and information businesses, whilst
seeing general uncertainty in markets such as property and construction, are
seeing no overall shift in market trends.
Our focus in 2008 will be on executing against our four strategic priorities:
delivering authoritative content through leading brands, driving online solutions,
improving cost efficiency, and reshaping and strengthening the portfolio.
Implementation of the restructuring programme, the planned divestment of Reed
Business Information and the acquisition and integration of ChoicePoint will be of
particular significance.
The outlook for Reed Elsevier is very positive. We are well positioned in attractive
markets; the momentum in the business is showing through in the good financial
performance; and the changes we are making will strengthen the business and
accelerate our growth.
Our business is dependent on the skill, energy and enterprise of our staff 
operating around the world. They do an outstanding job, with real professionalism
and exceptional commitment to our customers, to each other and to the
communities we serve. We could not ask for more and we want to take this
opportunity to thank them all.
Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
>
The outlook for 
Reed Elsevier is 
very positive