 I am pleased to report the results for the year to 
27 April 2007.
In security services, our substantial investment in setting
up the infrastructure, administration and validation
facilities to meet the new requirements of government
regulation of private security in England and Wales has
been completed and the adjustments to a regulated
market are gradually taking shape. We reversed the
trend of the three previous years and enjoyed strong
volume growth. However, the rate of growth in new
business slowed significantly in the second half. The
market remains competitive with continuing pressure 
on prices and margins.
In our facilities management and business process
outsourcing businesses, we have achieved organic growth
with existing customers and have successfully mobilised 
a number of new contracts. This has compensated for
contracts lost in the previous year. We are investing for 
the future in new and complementary specialisms.
We are working determinedly towards our long-term
strategic need to differentiate our products and services 
by adding more value for our customers through
innovation, process improvement and the application of
new technology. We are establishing leadership positions
in specific niches in our markets where we have specialist
knowledge and the necessary core competencies.
Possible offer
On 17 April 2007, I announced that I was at a very
preliminary stage of considering the possibility of making
an offer for the minority shareholding in the Group. On
14 June 2007, I announced that I had made significant
progress in the preparatory work ahead of a possible
offer. I also disclosed that a company controlled by me
had secured an irrevocable commitment from Artemis
Investment Management Limited to accept any possible
offer in respect of approximately 4.8% of Reliance's issued
share capital provided that a firm intention to make such
an offer is announced before 31 July 2007 and is for no
less than 916p per share in cash (inclusive of any final
dividend for the financial year to 27 April 2007). If any
offer were to proceed, apart from adopting a longer-term
time frame for investment decisions, I would not envisage
any significant change in the way that we would continue
to manage and to operate and conduct our business and
there would be no effective change of control.
Results
Turnover increased by 8.8% to  345.5 million (2006:
 317.5 million). Pre-exceptional, pre-tax profit for the year
was  13.6 million (2006:  13.1 million). Excluding
exceptional items, earnings per share was 47.4p (2006:
41.9p). Net cash generated from operations was  12.2
million (2006:  11.8 million) and we ended the year
with net cash of  25.4 million (2006:  21.1 million).
Dividend
In light of the possible offer referred to above, your 
board has decided not to recommend any final dividend
at this stage. It intends, however, to reconsider a
recommendation, should any firm intention to make 
an offer not be announced before 31 July 2007. 
Any dividend recommendation would then be put to
shareholders for approval at the AGM, currently 
proposed to be held on 6 September 2007.
Strategy
Our strategy is built around nourishing long-term
relationships with our customers and differentiating
Reliance from competitors - primarily through people
development and teamwork, service quality and the
application of appropriate technology - an emphasis
designed to help us over time to outperform our rivals 
in both growth and margins, thus generating greater
opportunity for our people and superior value for our
shareholders. 
Our businesses are highly complementary, offering 
each other important cost neutral benefits of sharing
infrastructure, skills development, management resources,
marketing and brand appeal. The businesses have a high
level of shared customers. We aim to apply the benefits of
these assets in adding maximum value for our customers.
In security services, with a market worth approximately 
 3 billion per annum, we will continue to strengthen our
leadership position and to respond robustly to competition,
offering customers an innovative blend of technology and
manpower services.
Chairman's
statement
Brian Kingham Chairman
Group turnover 
 345.5m
Teamwork, service quality and the application of appropriate technology.  We will continue to build our already substantial presence
in the larger and faster growing markets of facilities
management and business process outsourcing, where 
we are leaders in some market segments. Our aim is to 
grow our revenue streams by expanding the range 
of complementary services delivered under longer-term
contracts to both public and private sector customers. 
The intention is to build more market leadership positions
in specific niches where we have specialist knowledge
and the necessary core competencies. 
Community
Reliance is an enthusiastic supporter of community,
voluntary and charitable endeavour which complements
our business aims and those of our customers. We believe
strong communities are good for business. Our work with
Crime Concern, Victim Support, Cumberland Lodge, the
Police Service and numerous charitable and community
groups serves to enrich our experience and capacity to
serve our customers. We have been delighted to sponsor
The Prince's Trust. The Reliance Prize for Enterprise and
Innovation at Brunel University is now a highlight of the
annual  Made In Brunel' international design exhibition.
This year we were pleased to support and help set up the
community interest company, Restorative Solutions. Under
the leadership of Sir Charles Pollard they have achieved
notable success in tackling the problem of re-offending
through facilitated conferences between offenders and
their victims, often in the presence of family members. We
also set up what we consider to be a unique partnership:
working with Stroud College, Crime Concern and
Tomorrow's People we created  The Offender Services
Partnership' which has been welcomed by the
National Offender Management Service (NOMS)
and the Probation Service. We are actively working to
extend our partnerships with the charitable  not for profit'
sector to provide fully commercial services to the
public sector.
People
I am delighted to have this opportunity to express, on
behalf of the board, our thanks and enormous gratitude 
to our people. We take great pride in their achievements,
dedication, enthusiasm and sheer professionalism. My
board colleagues and I delight in our constant involvement
in celebrating their achievements at first hand. Our people
are the heart of the  Reliance Difference'. 
People matter most and our long-term success in
continuing to add value to the services we provide is
sustained by the renewal of inspiration and the sense of
enthusiasm and mission which characterises our culture.
Over the last year, we have continued to work with the
business school at Brunel University and the Leadership
Centre at Newcastle University to enhance the contribution
of the Reliance Academy in its work of fostering
outstanding management and leadership skills across 
the Group.
Reflecting the depth and breadth of our commitment to
imaginative interventions and support in skills and personal
development, we were honoured to be recognised by 
the Corporate Research Foundation and Guardian
Newspapers as one of Britain's top employers. Reliance
people won more regional British Security Industry Awards
for excellence this year than any other competitor. These
recognitions serve to remind us of the endless scope for
continuous improvement.
Investor In People is a centrepiece guiding our constant
work in involving our people in setting objectives and
improving our competitiveness and business performance.
The regular re-accreditation process for IIP serves as a
reminder of the power of great and comprehensive
communications in the sharing of our business objectives
and the development of changing skills to meet them. The
launch of our facilities management skills passport this year
has proved a popular initiative welcomed by our people
with its commitment to life-long learning. Enabling those in
the scheme to take ownership in identifying their training
needs, the passport gives valuable impetus to personal
development.
Board
During the year we announced the retirement from the
Group board as a non-executive director of Dr. Neil
French. We owe Neil a huge debt of thanks for his
contribution and his earlier inspired leadership of the
financial management of the Group over the five years 
of our most significant growth in diversity and scale. 
We wish him every happiness and success for the future.
We were delighted to welcome Mark Harrison as his
successor as Group Finance Director. Mark brings
distinctive strengths and achievement in both services 
and manufacturing businesses.
We have sought every opportunity to strengthen the
operating company boards by internal promotions and
appointing gifted managers from outside who share our
passion for the values that inspire the success of Reliance.
Stephen Hollings joined the restructured board at Reliance
Security Services Ltd as Sales & Marketing Director, and
Alison Crossley as Support Services Director. Colin Porton,
an early pioneer in the facilities management market,
joined Reliance Integrated Services Ltd as Operations
Director. Gerald Cranley, a specialist in business process
outsourcing joined the board of Reliance Secure Task
Management Ltd. 
Future
We believe that the outlook for the current year is
encouraging. In security services, we anticipate some
further beneficial effects of regulation and we are well
placed to take advantage of the new regulated market
later this year in Scotland. However, conditions are likely
to remain very competitive, demanding change, new
approaches and higher value added. In the large and
dynamic facilities management and business process
outsourcing markets we are continuing to invest in 
building organisational strength and an increasing number
of complementary activities which offer the prospect of
higher value and longer-term contracts.
Brian Kingham
Chairman
03
Reliance Security Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Chairman's statement
Pre-tax profit
 13.6m
 Reflecting the depth and breadth of our
commitment to imaginative interventions and
support in skills and personal development'