 2
Review of Operations
ReN001 stem cell therapy for stroke
In January 2009, we achieved the most significant 
milestone in the Company's history thus far, notably 
regulatory approval from the UK Medicines and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
(MHRA) to commence a Phase I 
clinical trial in stroke patients 
with our ReN001 stem cell 
therapy. The trial, the first of 
its kind using expanded neural 
stem cells, will be conducted at Glasgow's Southern 
General Hospital under the Principal Investigator, 
Professor Keith Muir, the SINAPSE Professor of 
Clinical Imaging, Division of Clinical Neurosciences 
at the University of Glasgow. The trial is designed 
primarily to test the safety profile of ReN001 in 
ischaemic stroke patients at a range of cell doses, but 
a number of efficacy measures will also be evaluated 
over the course of the trial.
We subsequently submitted the ReN001 clinical 
trial application to the Gene Therapy Advisory 
Committee (GTAC) who, in addition to their 
existing gene therapy remit, were recently given 
responsibility to act as the national research ethics 
committee for stem cell therapy clinical trials in the 
UK. A Provisional Opinion was recently granted 
by GTAC in respect of the application, subject to 
the resolution of a small number of points raised 
pertaining to non-safety-related pre-clinical data and 
the clinical trial protocol. We are currently working 
with GTAC with a view to swiftly resolving these 
outstanding points and we anticipate being able to 
give a further update in this respect shortly. In the 
meantime, we continue with our preparations for 
the Phase I trial with ReN001, including the recently 
announced bio-manufacturing contract with Angel 
Biotechnology plc regarding the production of 
clinical-grade ReN001 stem cell lots for the trial.
We intend to instigate or continue dialogue 
with other regulatory agencies regarding ReN001, 
including the US FDA and the European Medicines 
Agency (EMEA), with a view to clarifying the 
future clinical development pathways and data 
requirements for the therapy in these territories. Our 
near-term priority, however, remains the completion 
of the UK Phase I trial together with ongoing ReN001 
product development to enhance both the shelf life 
of the therapy and its mode of administration to the 
patient.
Other activities
During the period, we have also focused on 
exploring the utility of our lead CTX cell line in 
other conditions beyond stroke, where we believe 
the cell line has broad utility. During the period, we 
commenced a UK-based research collaboration with 
the Bristol Heart Institute to test the CTX cell line 
in pre-clinical models of peripheral artery disease 
(PAD). PAD is a chronic and debilitating disease 
that progressively restricts blood flow in the limbs, 
causing cramping, chronic pain and in extreme cases, 
loss of limb. The disease is commonly associated 
with other conditions such as diabetes, obesity and 
stroke. At least 1 in 20 people over the age of 55 have 
some degree of PAD and it becomes more common 
with increasing age.
In April of this year, we announced positive 
pre-clinical data from this collaboration in a 
recognised murine hind limb ischaemia model, 
further demonstrating the potency of the CTX stem 
cell line when applied in ischaemic disease settings. 
We are continuing our research collaboration with 
the Bristol team with the aim of generating further 
pre-clinical data sufficient to take this programme 
into the clinic within the next two years.
Chairman's and Chief  Executive   
 Officer's Joint Statement
2 Report and Accounts 2009
3
In order to conserve our financial resources, we 
intend to maintain our focus on pursuing applications 
for the CTX cell line, such as the peripheral artery 
disease programme described above. The extensive 
knowledge base and regulatory data package we 
have built around this cell line as part of the ReN001 
stroke programme will greatly assist us when taking 
the cell line through pre-clinical development in 
alternative disease settings. Our therapeutic 
programmes involving separately 
generated cell lines will consequently only 
be pursued further where funded third 
party collaborations can be secured.
 During the period, a number of US patent 
applications were granted in respect of our platform 
technologies and cell lines. More recently, a key 
application in our patent estate was granted in 
Japan, containing broad claims over the composition 
and use of conditionally immortal stem cells in the 
treatment of neurological conditions such as stroke 
and Alzheimer's disease. This patent represents one 
of a family of patents in our estate that has now been 
granted in all major territories of the globe.
In November 2008, Bryan Morton was appointed 
to the Board as a non-executive director. Bryan's 
contacts in the industry and his impressive track 
record of successfully growing and financing a 
number of significant businesses, and subsequently 
realising value for shareholders, will be invaluable to 
ReNeuron as it transitions from a research-focused 
operation into a clinical development-stage 
biotechnology business.
Funding
During the period, we completed the cost-reduction 
programme announced in last year's preliminary 
results statement. As is evident from the summary 
of results below, we are now benefiting from the 
outcomes of this programme in terms of a much 
reduced underlying cost base.
In June 2008, we secured a  2.5 
million convertible loan note facility 
from our principal investors, the full 
amount of the facility being drawn 
down during the period.
In March 2009, we announced a placing of new 
ordinary shares to raise up to  3.0 million, before 
expenses. We successfully completed this placing 
post-year end, in what remains an extremely 
challenging financing environment for relatively early 
stage biotechnology companies such as ReNeuron. 
As part of this process, the  2.5 million of outstanding 
loan notes referred to above, together with accrued 
interest, were capitalised into new ordinary shares in 
the Company.
As a result of the above cost reduction and 
financing activities, we expect our current financial 
resources to last into the second quarter of 2010. 
Based on current and anticipated progress in the 
business in the near term, the directors also expect 
to secure further financing from equity issues and 
other sources sufficient for the future needs of 
the business beyond the second quarter of next 
year. Consequently, the going concern basis has 
been adopted in the preparation of the financial 
statements.
Chairman's and Chief  Executive   
 Officer's Joint Statement
3 4
Summary of results
In the year ended 31 March 2009, turnover 
was  93,000 (2008:  27,000), representing 
income from the Group's non-therapeutic licensing 
activities.
Net operating expenses decreased in the year to 
 4.8 million (2008:  7.2 million), due principally 
to the effects of the cost reduction programme 
instigated in mid-2008. Of the total decrease of 
 2.4 million in the year,  2.0 million relates to a 
decrease in research and development expenditure, 
the balance of the decrease relating to general and 
administrative costs.
Other operating income dropped to nil in the year 
(2008:  309,000) as a result of the completion of 
certain projects for which grant income was being 
received in the prior year. Interest received also 
decreased in the year to  63,000 (2008:  318,000) 
as a result of lower average cash balances over the 
year. Interest costs of  62,000 in the year (2008: 
 1,000) relate primarily to interest accrued on 
amounts drawn down under the convertible loan 
facility referred to above.
Research and development tax credits booked in 
the year were  1.0 million (2008:  nil). This amount 
consists of an accrual of  0.4 million in respect of the 
year under review and  0.6 million representing the 
tax credit received in respect of the prior year and not 
accrued in the prior year's financial statements.
As a result of the above income statement 
movements, the net loss for the year decreased to 
 3.7 million (2008:  6.6 million).
Net cash outflow from operating activities 
decreased in the year to  4.4 million (2008:  6.1 
million), due largely to the decrease in operating 
expenses in the year. The Group had cash and 
cash equivalents of  0.9 million at 31 March 2009 
(2008:  2.8 million), with the above-mentioned 
gross placing proceeds of  3.0 million being received 
post-year end.
Intangible assets of  3.4 million (2008:  3.4 
million) include the cell encapsulation technology 
acquired by the Company in 2007 and transferred to 
the UK in 2008 following the closure of the Group's 
US research facility. Having successfully transferred 
this technology to the UK and further developed the 
pre-clinical data package, including the encapsulation 
of various cell types using the technology, the 
directors intend to pursue the most appropriate 
strategy to realise its potential given the resources 
currently available within the Group.
Summary and outlook
During the period, we secured UK regulatory 
approval to commence an initial clinical trial with 
our ReN001 stem cell therapy for stroke, a very 
significant achievement for ReNeuron and an 
important milestone in the wider stem cell field. 
We look forward to the commencement of patient 
recruitment for this trial once the ongoing UK ethical 
approval process has completed.
We have also reduced our cost base substantially 
during the period, re-focusing our efforts on 
enhancing the ReN001 therapy and testing the utility 
of our lead CTX cell line in other conditions beyond 
stroke. In this regard, we are greatly encouraged by 
the positive pre-clinical efficacy data generated in 
our peripheral artery disease programme during the 
period. In difficult financing conditions, we were also 
able to successfully complete a fundraising for the 
business subsequent to the year end.
We believe ReNeuron is strongly positioned to 
build on the above achievements as it transitions 
into a leading clinical-stage stem cell development 
business and we look forward to providing further 
updates on progress over the coming months.
On page 47 of this document is the notice of 
the 2009 Annual General Meeting (the AGM) 
to be held at 10:00 am on 17 September 2009. A 
short explanation of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the AGM is set out on page 50. The directors 
recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do in 
respect of their own beneficial holdings of ordinary 
shares. At the end of this document is a form of 
proxy for use in connection with the AGM which, 
if you wish to vote by way of proxy at the meeting, 
should be completed and returned to the Company's 
registrars in accordance with the instructions set out 
therein so as to be received not less than 48 hours 
prior to the AGM.
 
Professor Trevor Jones CBE Michael Hunt 
Chairman Chief Executive   
 Officer
23 July 2009