 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2013    07
Overview
Chairman's statement
Overview
Performance
Corporate Governance
Independent Auditor's Report
Financial Statements
Other Information
 Results
I am pleased to report another strong performance by your Company. For the year to 31 December
2013, profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation, discontinued activities and share-based
payment charges was  10.0 million, a year-on-year increase of 61% (2012:  6.2 million). Turnover
was  53.6 million (2012:  43.3 million), with a large part of the year-on-year increase reflecting
acquisitions made in both 2012 and 2013. Earnings per share on an adjusted basis were up 42%
at 10.5 pence (2012: 7.4 pence). With a recommended final dividend of 1.3 pence, the total dividend
is up 27% at 1.9 pence.
Trading
The Document Management division performed well with the core Records Management business
continuing to demonstrate the strength of its robust financial model. The division's turnover was
 27.7 million (2012:  21.0 million) and adjusted operating profit was  10.3 million (2012:  7.5 million).
Our Records Management business delivered an increase in revenue growth on an organic basis,
reflecting good levels of underlying activity amongst our existing customers. This was partially offset
by subdued new customer growth, which we have addressed through changes in our sales force.
The majority of the increase in the division's turnover derived from the three records management acquisitions made in late 2012 and
2013, whose integration has now been successfully completed. Trading at Restore Scan, which was fully integrated into the Document
Management division at the end of 2012, remained weak. Restore Shred had a strong year with several new business wins and
revenues showing year-on-year growth of 50%. 
The Relocations division's results now include Restore IT Efficient, the IT recycling business acquired in April 2013. The division's
turnover was  25.9 million (2012:  22.3 million) and adjusted operating profit was  2.2 million (2012:  1.2 million). The major constituent
of the division is Harrow Green, the UK's leading relocations business.  Harrow Green's revenues were ahead year-on-year and both
gross and net margin percentages increased. Its market showed signs of improvement towards the end of the year as the level of
office moves in London began to recover. Restore IT Efficient made a healthy contribution to profit in line with the forecast set at the
time of its acquisition.
Head Office costs remained flat at  1.6 million.
The Strategic report on page 11 gives a fuller assessment of our businesses' performance and prospects.
Corporate transactions
Three acquisitions were made in the year:
  In March, we acquired File and Data, a records management business operating from 5 locations across mainland Britain. The initial
consideration was  6.1 million with a potential additional payment of  0.15 million. 
  In April, we acquired Atix, a Kent-based records management business, for  0.9 million.
  In April, we acquired IT Efficient, a Bedfordshire-based IT asset disposal business for  1.9 million, with a potential additional payment
of  0.4 million. This took us into a new market, which complements our existing activities and customer base.
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was  16.0 million (2012:  17.8 million), including  3.9 million of credit invoice discounting. 
On 11 March 2014, we completed a refinancing of our bank debt with Barclays. The new facility comprises a 5-year Revolving Credit
Facility of  30.0 million with an additional  7.5 million also available, comprising a total of  37.5 million - an increase in capacity of
 15.0 million. This gives us considerable scope to continue to develop the Company through acquisitions.
In March and April 2013, we raised  7.0 million through an equity placing at 111.0 pence per share to fund the acquisition of File and Data. 
Sir William Wells
Chairman 08 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2013
Overview
Chairman's statement (continued)
Dividends
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.3 pence, payable on 9 July 2014 to shareholders on the register on 13 June 2014.
The total dividend for the year is 1.9 pence, a 27% year-on-year increase. It is the Board's firm intention to follow a progressive 
dividend policy.
Board
In November, Andrew Wilson resigned as a non-executive director from the Board. Andrew had been appointed to the Board in June
2009 when both the Chief Executive and I joined. He had been key in the transformation of the Company over the period since then.
His departure from the Board reflected the placing of Geraldton Services' disclosable stake in the Company in September 2013.
Geraldton had previously held up to 87% of the Company's shares and Andrew had been Geraldton's representative on the Board. I
thank Andrew and Geraldton for their exceptional support of the Company during the period of their shareholding.
Stephen Davidson joined the Board as a non-executive director in January 2014. His investment banking and public company
experience means he has much to bring to us. I welcome Stephen to the Board.
People
As I have previously noted, the success of a business services provider depends first and foremost upon the people who work in the
organisation. Recent customer surveys that we have undertaken consistently show that our customers across all of our business
streams are very pleased with the services we supply and this is predominantly attributed by them to the quality and energy of our
staff. Our business has changed significantly over the past few years with many new people joining us, and I am pleased that our
people have benefited from the stability and growth of the business. I thank everyone for their commitment over the last year and look
forward to them continuing to share in the success of the Company. I also welcome the people who have joined us through acquisitions
made during the year. 
Strategy
The Company has grown significantly over the last four years, whether measured by revenue, profit or market capitalisation. The engine
for this growth has been the predictability and inherent growth of our records management business and our ability to consolidate this
market by selectively acquiring smaller operators. We have also been skilled at integrating acquisitions and operating them cost-
effectively so as to improve margins. This has enabled us to increase revenues and profits in records management by 150% and 250%
respectively over the four-year period. 
Records management continues to generate the majority of Group operating profit and we continue to seek out appropriate records
management acquisitions. But we have also been successful in expanding the range of services which we supply to our customer
base. We are now the market leader in UK office relocation through Harrow Green, and in addition we now have: 
  a rapidly growing shredding and recycling business in Restore Shred; 
  and an IT Asset Disposal business with significant scope for growth in Restore IT Efficient. 
We also have a small but steadily growing on-line storage business.  These are all services which the majority of our customers require.
Over the last three years we have invested heavily in terms of management time in establishing a Group-wide customer relationship
management system. This enables all of our sales staff in whatever service line to identify and leverage the contacts we have elsewhere
in the Group. Despite being operationally and managerially decentralised, this ability to plug into our Group-wide customer contacts
makes it far easier for our sales people to introduce their service to our Group customers. This is beginning to create momentum
across the Group. Restore plc Report & Accounts 2013    09
Overview
Chairman's statement (continued)
Overview
Performance
Corporate Governance
Independent Auditor's Report
Financial Statements
Other Information
We continue to focus on increasing our UK market share. In Records Management this is achieved most successfully through
acquisitions. In some of our other services this is most likely to be achieved through organic growth, particularly by leveraging our
customer base across the Group.
In parallel, we are always looking at offering additional services which complement our existing activities. Historically we have achieved
this through acquiring a business in a new, related business area and then seeking to build it, frequently by using the Group's customer
base.
As I noted last year, we have clearly identified the characteristics of the areas in which we operate and seek to operate:
  A strong element of recurring revenues
  A degree of operational complexity which enables good margins to be achieved
  A similar channel to market: typically through our customers' facilities or IT managers
  Switching suppliers is neither desirable nor practical for customers
  Scope for cross-selling the other services we offer.
Outlook
The current year has started in line with our expectations. 
Our Document Management division continues to perform strongly and we expect the financial performance of our Relocations division
to benefit from improved market conditions. Both divisions remain focused on extending their market share and growing the contribution
of newer complementary activities such as shredding and IT asset disposal.
We will continue to pursue our strategy of organic and acquisitive growth and we look forward to delivering another year of strong
progress in 2014.
Sir William Wells
Chairman    
19 March 2014 10 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2013
At Restore Shred all waste is
recycled within the UK
100% of documents destroyed are
recycled and transformed into
tissue products used by many
sectors including the NHS
Secure destruction media is
converted into energy generation