 4 Associated British Foods plc
Chairman's statement
 These results, achieved against a background of increasing global
uncertainty and decreasing investor confidence, demonstrate not
only the strength and resilience inherent in our core businesses
but their capacity for producing further growth.' Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5
In my interim statement I referred to the solid progress which
had been achieved in the first six months of the year and I 
am delighted to report that our operational performance in the
second half has maintained that rate of growth. Operating profit,
before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill, increased
by  44 million, or 13%, to  395 million. It is particularly noteworthy
that this performance has been achieved against the background
of a global market characterised by excess capacity and declining
consumer confidence.
All divisions, with the exception of Australia, achieved 
double-digit profit increases maintaining the trend established 
in the first half. Primary food & agriculture again produced 
strong profit growth. Despite a smaller UK beet crop, British
Sugar achieved a satisfactory increase in profit. This could 
not have been achieved without the ongoing rationalisation 
and cost reduction programme which has been a constant focus 
in recent years. Despite an improved operational performance,
our overseas sugar business in Poland was hit by adverse 
market prices resulting in a fall in profit. Although faced with 
a poor wheat harvest, Allied Mills and our arable business
achieved strong gains in profitability. Here again restructuring 
and cost reduction has been a constant theme. In agriculture,
traditionally the most volatile sector of our operations, we were
able to overcome the trailing impact of disease and adverse
weather conditions to record strong gains in our animal feeds
business. Given the continuing problems of pricing, financial
instability and over capacity in the farming industry, the
achievement of double-digit growth in a shrinking sector of 
the UK economy is a remarkable result.
With one exception, the ingredients & oils businesses put in 
an outstanding performance. ACH significantly increased its 
profit and this is particularly pleasing because it was achieved
before including any contribution from the Mazola oils
acquisition, which was only purchased towards the end of 
the financial year. The integration of Mazola is going according 
to plan and it is expected to make a substantial contribution 
to the profit growth of ACH in the coming year. SPI, our polyols
business, has made a recovery from the operational problems
experienced last year and achieved a significantly improved
profit. It is disappointing to report that our Abitec ingredients
business faced problems in reorganising and integrating its
existing and newly acquired bakery ingredients businesses 
in the UK and the US. The result was a decline in profit but,
despite this setback, we are confident that growth will be
resumed in the current year.
Our grocery businesses again produced an excellent result.
Allied Bakeries continued to grow branded volume in the
multiple retail sector. With contributions from a bread price
increase, cost reductions and operational efficiency improvements,
Allied Bakeries achieved a significant improvement in its results.
Twinings maintained its strong performance in worldwide sales,
market share and profit growth. A strong feature in this growth
story in recent years has been the successful development of its
product range into the herbal and fruit infusion markets both 
in the UK and overseas.  
Primark has again achieved outstanding growth in both 
sales and profit. We continue to acquire and develop stores 
in new city centre locations and we are confident that the
growth of this business can be maintained in an increasingly
competitive sector.
The poor performance of George Weston Foods in Australia
continued into the second half of the financial year. Despite a highly
successful performance by the milling and baking businesses, 
our meat and biscuit operations continued to underperform. During 
the year we sold, at a profit, our loss-making starch manufacturing
operation. Since the financial year end we have completed the
buyout of the minority shareholders in the company. We are now 
in a position to take positive action to best position this business 
for growth. This will be a major focus in the coming year.
The disposal of redundant properties continued resulting in 
a profit of  8 million in the year. 
Despite an increased level of expenditure on fixed assets and
acquisitions at over  450 million, the strong cash flow from our
operating activities ensured that at the year end our net liquid
funds were in excess of  1 billion, a level virtually unchanged 
from the previous year. Improved returns on these invested funds
in the second half of the year enabled us to restrict the decline 
in the level of investment income as a result of lower interest rates.
At  57 million this was  9 million, or 14%, below last year. 6 Associated British Foods plc
Chairman's statement continued
Adjusting for exceptional items, profits on the sale of fixed assets
and amortisation of goodwill, group profit before tax increased 
by 9% to  430 million. Adjusted earnings per share were 14%
ahead of last year at 38.7p.
Your company is renowned for its defensive strengths and its cash
generating capability. These results, achieved against a background
of increasing global uncertainty and decreasing investor confidence,
demonstrate not only the strength and resilience inherent in our
core businesses but their capacity for producing further growth. 
Management effort continues to be focused on improving 
the efficiency of our businesses. This is not only a process of
reducing our cost base but of improving the level of performance
by our operating management both by developing the best 
of our existing executives and targeted recruitment of stronger
managers where required.
Spending on acquisitions in the year totalled  268 million
including  235 million for the purchase of Mazola in the US.
This bottled corn oil business is an ideal fit with ACH oils and
enables us to broaden our product offering into the branded
retail segment of the market as well as to rationalise production
and distribution costs. This acquisition will have a positive impact 
on earnings in our 2003 financial year. 
Since the end of the financial year we completed the purchase of
the minority shareholdings in George Weston Foods in Australia at
a cost of  58 million. In early October we announced the purchase
of Ovaltine, the branded malted drinks business, from Novartis of
Switzerland for a consideration of  171 million. The acquisition
includes Ovaltine and associated brands throughout the world
except the US. The addition of this internationally known brand to
our product portfolio will enhance our presence in the international
consumer market for hot beverages. This acquisition is forecast to
be earnings enhancing in its first year under our ownership.
In my last annual report I stated that the outlook for the year
ahead was one of escalating uncertainty and of reduction in
consumer confidence. Financial markets throughout the world
over the past year have reflected that in moving consistently
lower. I believe that the coming months will bring little in the 
way of relief from these pressures as the global economy faces
up to the possibility of war in the Middle East, a seemingly
unending financial crisis in Japan and low to zero growth in the 
US and Europe. No company as large and widespread in its
activities as ours can be totally immune from these influences.
Despite this gloomy outlook I believe that this company can face
the coming year with the confidence that it will maintain its positive
growth in sales and operating profit. In the past year, we have
invested over  450 million on acquisitions and capital expenditure
in our existing businesses. Such is the strength of our cash flow
that we have financed all this without any significant reduction in
the level of our net liquid funds. These investments and the further
acquisitions since our year end will have a positive effect on our
operating performance in the coming year.
The growth of your company has been financed from its own
resources. The value of this long-held and important discipline 
is clearly demonstrated in today's hostile financial environment
where the very existence of many companies is threatened by
their inability to service debt taken on in more expansionary times.
Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable pace funding
our development from cash flow and a strong balance sheet. 
The base of our business has been significantly reshaped in the
past three years. We have sought to eliminate areas of weakness
or irrelevance to our planned growth but at the same time we
have sought to strengthen and expand those sectors which can
act as the framework for our future development. I am confident
that your company can maintain its current momentum. 
Board changes
The appointment of Mike Alexander as an additional non-executive
director was announced in January this year. Mr Alexander is
executive director and chief operating officer of Centrica plc,
having previously held a number of management positions with
BP and latterly with British Gas. He brings a wealth of operational
management experience and will make a strong contribution to
our activities.
Dividends 
The directors have declared a second interim dividend of 9.00p
(2001 - 7.55p) which will be paid on 18 February 2003 to
shareholders registered at the close of business on 17 January 2003. Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7
This makes a total dividend for the year of 13.25p, an increase 
of 12% on the previous year.
Employees 
The pace of change in our organisation owes much to our 
employees around the world who have not only risen to the
challenges this poses but have made major contributions in taking 
us forward. The successes we are recording in this report are a
testament to their efforts and I take this opportunity to thank them all.
Chairman 
Your company is well placed to achieve further growth. It has an
excellent management team and a solid financial base.
Having served as a director for the last 23 years I feel that it is the
appropriate time to step down and I have notified the board that 
I intend to retire immediately following the annual general meeting.
My successor as Chairman will be Martin Adamson, a fellow board
member who will bring to the role a wealth of business experience
and a breadth of knowledge of your company's activities. I wish
him and my colleagues every success in the years ahead.
Harry Bailey  
Chairman
 The growth of your company has been financed from its own
resources... Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable
pace funding our development from cash flow and a strong
balance sheet.'