 58 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements
Chairman Non executive directors
1  Paul Skinner (age 60)
Paul Skinner was appointed chairman in
November 2003. He graduated in law
from Cambridge University and in
business administration from Manchester
Business School. A director of Rio Tinto
since 2001, he is chairman of the
Nominations committee and the
Committee on social and environmental
accountability. He was previously a
managing director of The Shell 
Transport and Trading Company plc and
group managing director of The Royal
Dutch/Shell Group of Companies, for
whom he had worked since 1966. He is
a director of Standard Chartered PLC
and the Tetra Laval Group. He is also a
member of the board of INSEAD
business school. (notes b and d)
2  Leigh Clifford (age 57)
Leigh Clifford became chief executive in
2000, having been a director of Rio Tinto
plc since 1994 and Rio Tinto Limited
since 1995. A mining engineer he is a
bachelor of engineering and a master of
engineering science. He has held various
roles in the Group's coal and
metalliferous operations since joining in
1970, including managing director of 
Rio Tinto Limited and chief executive of
the Energy group. He is a former director
of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc
and a non executive director of Barclays
Bank plc. 
3  Guy Elliott (age 49) 
Guy Elliott became finance director of 
Rio Tinto in 2002. He holds an MA from
Oxford and joined the Group in 1980
after gaining an MBA from INSEAD
business school. He has subsequently
held a variety of management positions,
including being president of Rio Tinto
Brasil from 1996 to 1999.
4  Ashton Calvert (age 59)
Ashton Calvert was appointed a director 
of Rio Tinto with effect from 1 February
2005. He recently retired as secretary of
the Department of Foreign Affairs and
Trade of the Government of Australia. He
was educated at the University of
Tasmania and, as a Rhodes scholar, also
gained a doctorate in mathematics from
Oxford University. During his career in the
Australian foreign service he held
appointments in Washington and, on
four occasions, in Tokyo, where he was
ambassador between 1993 and 1998
prior to his appointment as secretary. In
these and other roles he developed
extensive experience of the Asian
countries which represent key markets
for Rio Tinto. (notes b, d and e)
5  Sir David Clementi (age 56)
Sir David was appointed a director of 
Rio Tinto in January 2003. He is chairman
of Prudential plc, prior to which he was
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England.
Sir David's earlier career was with
Kleinwort Benson where he spent 22
years, holding various positions including
chief executive and vice chairman. A
graduate of Oxford University and a
qualified chartered accountant, Sir David
also holds an MBA from Harvard
Business School. (notes a, c and e)
6  Sir Richard Giordano (age 70) 
Sir Richard, who will also retire from the
boards at the conclusion of the 2005
annual general meetings, is the senior
non executive director and a deputy
chairman. He is also chairman of the
Audit committee. He has been a director
of Rio Tinto plc since 1992 and of 
Rio Tinto Limited since 1995. A lawyer by
training, he spent 12 years at BOC
Group, first as chief executive, then
chairman. In 1993, Sir Richard became a
director of British Gas, assuming the role
of chairman in 1994. A former chairman
of BG Group plc, he is a director of
Georgia Pacific Corporation in the US
and a trustee of Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace. (notes a, b, d and e)
7  Leon Davis (age 65) 
Leon Davis, who will retire at the
conclusion of the 2005 annual general
meetings, is the Group's Australia based
non executive deputy chairman. He
became a director of Rio Tinto Limited in
1994 and of Rio Tinto plc in 1995. He is
a metallurgist and holds a diploma in
primary metallurgy and a DSc from
Curtis University and the University of
Queensland. During nearly 50 years with
the Group he has held a number of
managerial posts around the world,
ultimately as chief executive from 1997
to 2000. A former director of Codan Pty.
Limited, he is chairman of Westpac
Banking Corporation and a director of
Huysmans Pty Limited and Trouin Pty
Limited, and is also president of the
board of The Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute of Medical Research. (note d)
Executive directors
Notes
a) Audit committee
b) Nominations committee
c) Remuneration committee
d) Committee on social and
environmental accountability
e) Independent (as defined on pages 71
and 72)
1 2 3 67 5 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements   59
8  Vivienne Cox (age 45) 
Vivienne Cox was appointed a director of 
Rio Tinto with effect from 1 February
2005. She is currently executive vice
president of BP p.l.c. for Integrated
Supply and Trading and also for Gas
Power and Renewables. She is a
member of the BP group chief
executive's committee. She holds
degrees in chemistry from Oxford
University and in business administration
from INSEAD. During her career in BP
she has worked in chemicals,
exploration, finance, and refining and
marketing. (note e)
9  Andrew Gould (age 58)
Andrew Gould was appointed a director
of Rio Tinto in 2002. He holds a degree
in economic history and is chairman and
chief executive officer of Schlumberger
Limited, where he has held a succession
of financial and operational management
positions, including that of executive vice
president of Schlumberger Oilfield
Services and president and chief
operating officer of Schlumberger
Limited. He joined Schlumberger in 1975
from Ernst & Young. (notes a, c and e)
10  Lord Kerr (age 63)
Lord Kerr was appointed a director of
Rio Tinto in 2003. He has an MA from
Oxford University and was a member of
the UK Diplomatic Service for 36 years,
heading the service from 1997 to 2002.
On a secondment to the UK Treasury he
was principal private secretary to two
Chancellors of the Exchequer. His
service abroad included spells as
Ambassador to the European Union from
1990 to 1995, and to the US from 1995
to 1997. He is chairman of the Court
and Council of Imperial College, London;
a director of The Shell  Transport and
Trading Company plc and The Scottish
American Investment Trust plc. Lord Kerr
is also a Trustee of the Rhodes Trust.
(notes a, d and e)
11  David Mayhew (age 64)
David Mayhew was appointed a director
of Rio Tinto in 2000. He is chairman of
Cazenove Group plc, which he joined in
1969. Cazenove is a stockbroker to 
Rio Tinto plc. (notes a and b)
12  John Morschel (age 61) 
John Morschel, who will retire from the
boards at the conclusion of the 2005
annual general meetings, was appointed
to the boards of Rio Tinto in 1998.
Educated in Australia and the US, he
spent most of his career with Lend
Lease Corporation Limited in Australia,
culminating as managing director,
followed by two years as an executive
director of the Westpac Banking
Corporation. A former chairman of CSR
Limited and Leighton Holdings Limited,
he is chairman of Rinker Group Limited
and is a director of ANZ Banking Group
Limited, Tenix Pty Limited, Gifford
Communications Pty Limited and
Singapore Telecommunications Limited.
He is also a patron of the Property
Industry Foundation. (notes b, c, d and e)
13  Sir Richard Sykes (age 62)
Sir Richard was appointed a director of
Rio Tinto in 1997. Following Sir Richard
Giordano's retirement, he will become
Rio Tinto's senior independent director.
He is chairman of the Remuneration
committee. After reading microbiology,
he obtained doctorates in microbial
chemistry and in science. A former
chairman of GlaxoSmithKline plc, Sir
Richard is a director of Lonza Group
Limited and is rector of Imperial College,
London. He is a fellow of the Royal
Society and a trustee of the Natural
History Museum in London and of the
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. (notes c
and e)
14  Richard Goodmanson (age 57)
Richard Goodmanson was appointed a
director of Rio Tinto on 1 December
2004. He is executive vice president and
chief operating officer of DuPont and
holds degrees in civil engineering,
economics, commerce and business
administration. During his career he has
worked at senior levels for McKinsey &
Co, PepsiCo and American West
Airlines, where he was president and
CEO. He joined DuPont in early 1999
and in his current position has
responsibility for the non US operations
of DuPont with particular focus on
growth in emerging markets. (notes c, d
and e)
Robert Adams died at his home on 27
January 2005. Robert Adams joined the
Group in 1970 after reading natural
sciences and economics and
subsequently gaining an MSc from the
London Business School. He had a long
distinguished career with Rio Tinto and
becoming a director of Rio Tinto plc in
1991 and of Rio Tinto Limited in 1995
with responsibility for planning and
development. He was also a non
executive director of Foreign & Colonial
Investment Trust plc.
Oscar Groeneveld served as a director
until 1 October 2004 when he was
appointed chief executive of the
Aluminium group. See Senior
management on page 60 for his full
biography.
Lord Tugendhat served as director until
22 April 2004 when he retired by rotation
following the 2004 annual general
meetings. He holds a BA and MA in
history from Cambridge University, and
became a director of Rio Tinto in 1997.
A former vice president of the
Commission of the European
Communities, and chairman of the Civil
Aviation Authority, he was chairman of
Abbey National plc from 1991 until 2002
when he was appointed chairman of
Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
10 9 4 11 8 13 14
12