 4 // Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008
The year saw steadily worsening economic conditions with sharp rises in 
input costs, particularly raw materials and energy, and falling consumer 
confidence. In these circumstances the group delivered good results and 
adjusted operating profit increased by 7%. If the results of the businesses 
which were affected by EU sugar regime change are excluded, profits were 
ahead by 18%, an excellent achievement.
Considerable further investment was made during the year, particularly  
in the expansion of our sugar interests in China and Africa and in Primark's  
retail space, and also in our grocery and ingredients businesses. Additional 
investment and higher working capital, together with higher interest rates, 
resulted in a substantial increase in interest payable. Adjusted profit before 
tax rose by 3% and, with a slightly lower rate of tax than last year, adjusted 
earnings per share increased by 4%. 
This year's result includes a net exceptional charge of  46m arising  
from major restructuring initiatives. This comprises a provision for the 
rationalisation of our Australian meat business, following the acquisition  
of KR Castlemaine at the end of March, less a net gain on the renunciation  
of sugar quota in the UK and Poland. 
Revenue grew by 21% to  8.2bn driven, in good part, by our ability to 
recover rising input costs, but also by volume increases reflecting our past 
capital investment, acquisitions and favourable currency translation.
The year has seen further development for the sugar businesses. In Europe  
the transition to the new EU sugar regime is largely over and there is now  
the prospect of reasonable equilibrium in a market where consumption will 
exceed domestic production. In China, development plans for the north  
east have been taken forward and major phased expansion will take place 
over the next few years. These plans will lead to the development of  
factory operations and are expected to achieve marked improvements in 
agricultural performance in the region. Illovo has also extended capacity 
through various projects and has well-developed plans for further increases 
in the next few years. Across the three major regions in which the group 
operates, sugar production in the year amounted to some 3.85 million 
tonnes and will be substantially increased over the next few years. The  
joint venture with BP and DuPont has commenced construction of the 
bioethanol plant in Hull and is on schedule for commissioning in 2010.
The profits of the European sugar businesses fell sharply in the year, caused  
by an increase in the restructuring levy and the temporary reduction of 
quota, and the results in China were adversely affected by lower prices  
after an exceptional crop. By contrast, Illovo's results were very good.
Primark achieved strong growth in both sales and profits. Like-for-like sales 
growth was very satisfactory in a marketplace which, as a whole, became 
progressively tighter during the year. Selling space was expanded further, 
although not at the exceptional rate of the previous year. In the increasingly 
difficult economic environment, Primark is well placed to compete. 
Expansion is continuing in the UK, Ireland and on the Continent, where the 
results of the Spanish stores have been very encouraging. Another major  
UK distribution centre was opened recently and we have strengthened 
management further in light of the significant expansion of the business.
The group's grocery businesses made excellent progress in the year, 
delivering substantially higher profits against a background of sharply rising 
commodity costs. In most cases, successful steps were taken to adjust sales 
prices, although there was a lag in the ability of the US oils business to 
recover, fully, quite exceptional rises. Twinings and Ovaltine made advances 
both in major established markets and other markets where there is much 
scope for development. There was strong improvement in the performance 
of Allied Bakeries following the very successful relaunch of Kingsmill in 
2007. The integration of the World Foods businesses, Patak's and Blue 
Dragon, proceeded well and good sales growth was achieved by both 
brands. It was also pleasing to move forward with the merger of Ryvita  
and Jordans where we now have a 62% stake. Our grocery businesses are  
a major strength of the group.
 
 
 
 
Among our other businesses, AB Agri had an exceptional year. While part  
of the success was due to its ability to operate well in extremely volatile 
commodity markets, long-term improvements in fundamentals played  
a major role. The ingredients businesses posted sound growth in  
difficult conditions.
Net capital expenditure and investment in new businesses net of disposals 
amounted to  710m. Over  500m was incurred to expand plant capacity  
and on new Primark stores. Major acquisitions in the year included beet  
sugar factories in north east China, the KR Castlemaine meat business in 
Australia, which is being integrated with our existing meat business, and 
further expansion of our European yeast operations. 
Chairman's statement
SuGAR PROduCTIO n In THE YEAR 
AMOun TEd TO SOME 3.85 MIll IOn 
TOnnES. Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 // 5
Business review Financial statements Our business in action
Working capital at the financial year end was some  340m higher than  
last year end driven, in part, by the acquisitions in the year but mainly  
as a consequence of the rises in input prices referred to throughout this 
statement. This much higher working capital was one of the major reasons  
for the increase of  480m in year end net debt to  791m, the other major 
contributors being acquisition spend net of disposal proceeds, and higher 
capital expenditure. Although the group was well within its borrowing 
facilities at year end, we have secured additional borrowing capacity since 
the year end in anticipation of further investment.
 
The group is becoming increasingly involved with developing countries, 
both through ownership of local manufacturing operations and through 
sourcing from local, third-party manufacturers. The value of economic 
growth to developing countries of both local operations and third-party 
sourcing is generally accepted. In our own manufacturing operations we are 
the employers of the local workforce. As a consequence, we are able to set 
employment standards and agree benefits directly with the workforce. As  
an example, in several countries in southern Africa, Illovo provides housing, 
education, healthcare, infrastructure and other benefits for employees and 
their dependants. Where we source from third-party manufacturers, the 
position is different as the group does not have an employer/employee 
relationship. This is particularly the case for Primark which, with other 
major European and US retailers, sources large quantities of goods from 
developing countries. Primark sets contractual requirements with suppliers 
for workplace standards and monitors their application. It is, however, much 
more difficult to ensure the required standards are consistently observed 
where Primark is not the employer. As a group, we are committed to high 
standards in the supply chain and will continue to work to achieve them.
Board changes
I reported a year ago that Lord MacGregor and Mike Alexander would retire  
as directors on 7 December 2007 and paid tribute, at that time, to their 
contributions to the board.
On 1 October 2008 Charles Sinclair was appointed to the board as an 
independent non-executive director. Until 30 September 2008, Mr Sinclair 
was chief executive of Daily Mail & General Trust. He is also a non-
executive director of SVG Capital Plc. I am confident Charles will make  
a valuable contribution to the board's work. 
Employees
The group now employs 96,000 people in 44 countries. Their skills,  
ingenuity and hard work, often in very demanding conditions, deliver the 
results covered in this report. When I visit our operations in the UK and 
abroad, I am always impressed by the ability and enthusiasm of the people 
who work in the group. I am grateful to them all for their continued efforts 
over the past year.
d ividends
A final dividend of 13.5p is proposed, to be paid on 9 January 2009 to 
shareholders on the register on 5 December 2008. Together with the 
interim dividend of 6.75p paid on 3 July 2008, this will make a total of 
20.25p for the year, an increase of 4%.
Outlook
The economies in which the group operates face extremely testing 
conditions. There is also very great uncertainty about how these conditions 
will develop over the coming year. The group's businesses will not be 
immune to a worsening economic climate. However, by virtue of the nature, 
range and market position of the group's businesses we are well placed to 
face this demanding environment. We expect to maintain capital investment 
at planned levels in spite of the economic outlook. We anticipate some 
progress in operating profits over the coming year but little change in net 
earnings due to additional interest expense. I am confident that the recent 
and planned capital investment positions the group well for the longer term.
Martin Adamson  
Chairman
The recent and planned capital 
investment positions the group  
well for the longer term.
n ET CAPITAl E x PEnd ITu RE And 
In VESTMEn T In n EW Bu SIn ESSES 
n ET OF dISPOSA l S AMOun TEd  
TO  710M.