 RMC has a long history of delivering
the highest quality products to its
customers - and it has always been 
a responsible company. What we
must now do is deliver improved
performance, in every aspect of 
our business.
Sir John Parker
Chairman
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002
2
My first year as your Chairman has been a
challenging one for the Group, with difficult
trading conditions in a number of our 
major markets reflecting global economic
uncertainty and fragility. The year, however,
has been a particularly active one for RMC
and has seen many positive steps taken to
improve the Group's performance over 
the medium term. The Board has been
strengthened, a thorough business review 
has been undertaken, a major refinancing has
been completed and significant progress has
been made towards our commitment to
reduce debt and reshape our portfolio.
All Group activities were closely examined
during the business review to confirm the
appropriate structure of the business, its
future investment profile and ability to deliver
on the Board's commitment to enhance
returns to shareholders. The outcome of this
was a clear statement of our business strategy
and a set of clearly defined targets and
objectives over the medium term. These are
being pursued and good underlying progress
is being made.
During the year a new, five-year  0.9 billion
syndicated bank facility was concluded. This is
an important element of the Group's medium-
term financing and, in conjunction with
existing long-term borrowings, provides a
strong and well balanced debt profile for the
Group over the medium term.
Chairman's statement 3
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group
Although trading conditions in Great Britain
softened in the second half of the year, the
aggregates business performed well, with
satisfactory results coming from the readymix
and building products divisions. The cement
operation has, however, continued to
experience difficulties, holding back the
results. A more fragile economy in the USA
led to weaker demand for heavy building
materials with our business reporting a
reduction in profits. In Germany, where
construction industry demand fell for the
seventh consecutive year, our operations 
were affected by falling cement prices leading
to a modest reduction in profits. Elsewhere I
was encouraged by particularly good results 
in a number of countries, notably Australia,
Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, and in
France and Spain where we had a record year.
These performances reflect the benefits of the
Group's strategic geographic spread of activity.
The Chief Executive, in his review, discusses
the industry-wide investigation into alleged
anti-competitive practices in the cement
industry in Germany, which was announced
on 8 July 2002. RMC Group has had a strict
policy in place regarding compliance with
competition law for many years and the Board
will continue to reinforce all measures taken
to prevent anti-competitive practices.
Group profit before tax excluding exceptional
items, was  144.3 million compared to
 170.7 million in 2001. Including exceptional
items, profit before tax was  136.1 million
compared to  161.5 million in 2001.
Earnings per share excluding exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation were 41.4 pence
compared with 43.7 pence in 2001. Including
these items, basic earnings per share were 
26.5 pence (2001: 26.7 pence).
The Board, in reviewing the dividend,
recognises its importance to shareholders. 
It also attaches importance, amongst other
judgements, to the level of cash cover and the
good progress that has been achieved in the
early implementation of the Group's business
review. Taking account of these factors, the
Board has recommended an unchanged 
final dividend of 21.8 pence per share 
(2001: 21.8 pence) which, together with the
interim dividend paid per share of 9.4 pence
(2001: 9.4 pence), makes a total dividend 
for the year of 31.2 pence per share 
(2001: 31.2 pence).
Business strategy
As a result of the business review, the Group's
product portfolio is being streamlined in order
to add greater focus on our core products -
concrete, aggregates and cement. We believe
that by concentrating on our strong positions
in these product areas, we will be in a better
position to achieve the synergies of vertical
integration and to generate improved returns.
In the same vein, we have reviewed the
Group's portfolio of businesses in order to
concentrate on our larger-scale operations or
those which offer the prospect of achieving
sufficient scale in the next five years.
We also believe there are significant
opportunities to improve operating
performances. For example, in our cement
business we are committed to a number 
of improvement initiatives targeted at
producing an EBITA improvement of 
 50 million in the medium term.  
With actions underway to increase efficiencies,
to enhance market focus and to improve
underlying profitability in all businesses, the
Board has confirmed its target EBITA return 
on net operating assets for the Group of 
12% over the medium term, subject 
to improved economic conditions.
I am pleased to inform you that we have
already taken significant steps to enable us 
to deliver these strategic goals. In his Chief
Executive's review, Stuart Walker outlines the
major disposals made in 2002 as well as other
disposals that have already been made in
2003. As a result, I can report that during the
year net debt was reduced by  309.8 million
to  1,179.6 million and that the Group is
now well placed to achieve its commitment
to reduce net debt to less than  1 billion by
the end of this year.
The improved business efficiencies referred 
to above should generate sufficient funds 
to allow for adequate investment in 2003.
Dove Holes Quarry, Buxton, Great Britain
Three new non-executive Directors were
appointed to the Board during 2002.
As part of their induction to the Group, they
visited a number of operations including a
tour of Dove Holes Quarry in Buxton, the
UK's largest hard rock quarry - owned and
operated by RMC Aggregates (UK) Limited. 4
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Quality, delivery and responsibility 
Our shareholders, customers and other 
key stakeholders demand from us quality,
delivery and responsibility in all that we do
and we make it our business to meet these
expectations. Through our integrated product
mix and expertise in local markets around the
world, we provide added value to our
customers by developing the synergies
between our complementary businesses 
and sharing knowledge across the Group,
facilitating the introduction of innovative
products and services.
As well as delivering high quality products and
services to our customers, RMC recognises
that its business success also relies on being
clear about its obligations to the wider
community affected by its business practices.
It is for the Board to set the standard for the
Group as a whole, which is why we have
adopted a statement of business principles
and values. These describe the values that
should underpin the day-to-day activities of
every employee within the Group. Social
responsibility - individual and collective - is 
an integral feature of RMC's approach to
business and is explained in greater depth 
on pages 20 to 25 of this Report. 
Employees
I should like to thank our employees for their
hard work and application during what has
been a challenging year for the Group. Since
I joined the Group I have enjoyed meeting
many RMC people in the business and I have
been struck by their commitment and
enthusiasm. It is the strength and quality of
our employees that gives me confidence to
say that the Group is well placed to deliver its
medium-term strategy, thus maintaining its
position as one of the world's leading
companies in its sector.
Board changes
I take this opportunity to thank my
predecessor, Chris Hampson, for his invaluable
service to the Group as Chairman and to wish
him a long and happy retirement. I should
also like to thank Professor Dr Karlheinz
R sener who retired as a non-executive
Director during the year.
We have welcomed three new non-executive
Directors to the Board in 2002: Philip Hampton
(Group Finance Director of Lloyds TSB Group
plc), Helmut Mamsch (Deputy Chairman of
LogicaCMG plc) and Jamie Pike (Chief
Executive of Foseco Group). Each brings an
impressive portfolio of skills and experience, 
as well as a fresh perspective on the challenges
we face. I am already grateful for their
contribution, as I am for the support and
commitment of my other fellow Directors 
on the Board.
Blackheads' House, Riga, Latvia
The Blackheads' Society was an organisation
of foreign merchants who settled in Riga in
the 14th century. This building, destroyed
by fire in WWII, has been rebuilt using
600 tonnes of cement from the Group's 
Latvian subsidiary companies, and provides 
a venue for meetings and festivities for
public organisations in Riga.
Alan Durant retired on 31 October 2002 on
reaching age 65, after 38 years' service with
the Group, the last three as a Director of
RMC Group. On your behalf, and on behalf
of the Board, I thank Alan for his loyal and
unstinting service and particularly for his
significant contribution towards the growth
of our businesses in the USA. Mike Foster
has assumed overall responsibility for our
US operations in addition to his existing
responsibilities for the Group's businesses 
in Great Britain and Ireland.
Bob Lambourne resigned by mutual
agreement as Group Finance Director in
January 2003 and I should like to thank him
for his services to the Group. Bob has been
succeeded by Adrian Auer, formerly Group
Finance Director at Taylor Woodrow plc, who
was appointed as an executive Director and
Group Finance Director on 14 January 2003. 
I am pleased to welcome Adrian, whose
considerable experience will be a valuable
asset to the Group and we are confident he
will make a significant contribution to our
future progress.
Chairman's statement continued