 Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 08
Corporate Overview
Against a backdrop of very challenging economic 
and market conditions, I am pleased with the 
progress the Company has made in growing 
volumes. Reported profits, while lower than last 
year, are in line with previous expectations.
The completion of our Bridgwater facility during  
the year provides us with the capacity to process 
and distribute over 2 billion litres of milk. We are 
proud of our investment at Bridgwater, which has 
been critical to our volume growth and improved 
efficiencies in recent years. We now have the 
capability to supply customers in every postcode 
area in Britain and will, in due course, look to utilise 
profitably the additional capacity available to us.
In the last year, all of the major retailers put  
their milk supply contracts out to tender and the 
convenience and wholesale sectors of the market 
have seen heightened levels of competition to 
supply. Although our margins have been impacted 
as a consequence, we are pleased with the 
outcome of the tenders in volume terms, as we have 
either grown or retained our business with all our 
key customers. We increased our share of Tesco's 
own label supplies, consolidated our position as 
Sainsbury's largest fresh liquid milk supplier and 
made significant progress with The Co-operative 
Group, where we will be supplying all its own-brand 
fresh milk products from August.
Financial Results
Although revenues grew 3.5% to  917.5 million  
(2010:  886.2 million), adjusted profit before tax 
declined 23.9% to  35.8 million (2010:  47.0 million). 
After reflecting the  2.1 million restructuring costs 
(2010: Nil), the  0.6 million gain on the fair valuing of 
interest rate swaps (2010:  0.3 million) and the  1.9 
million reduction in the previous year of a penalty 
previously levied by the Office of Fair Trading,  
profit before tax declined 30.2% to  34.4 million 
(2010:  49.2 million).
Net debt was significantly lower at  4.9 million  
(2010:  21.1 million), reflecting the continued strong 
cash flows generated.
Against a backdrop of very challenging 
economic and market conditions, I am pleased 
with the progress the Company has made.
Chairman's Statement
Improved  
efficiency in a  
difficult climate Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 09
Overview Governance
Strategic 
Overview
Business  
Review
Financial  
Statements
Business Performance
During the year we benefited from higher milk sales 
volumes and increased prices for bulk cream.
However, given the highly competitive environment, 
there has been a significant impact from customers 
across the markets we serve undertaking tenders 
and renegotiating their terms. In addition, in common 
with many companies who have a requirement  
for commodities like diesel and plastics, we have 
experienced a sustained period of intense cost 
pressure. Dairy farmers who supply the Group have 
also seen significant pressure on their costs, which 
along with a strong rise in the commodity value of 
milk, has necessitated increases in the price we are 
paying for our raw milk.
The increased revenue generated from cream 
during the year was initially sufficient to offset the 
increased oil-related costs. However, as diesel and 
packaging costs continued to rise and we also faced 
pressure to increase raw milk prices, it became 
necessary to seek recovery of these higher costs 
from customers. Given the widely acknowledged 
challenges facing retailers, caused by the overall 
economic environment, this has proved to be a 
complicated and difficult process. However, we are 
pleased to report that we have been able to attain 
the level of price increase we initially sought. 
It should however be noted that since we sought 
recovery from our customers, oil related costs have 
continued to rise.
As we reported during the year, the business is  
acting to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs as 
a means to offset margin pressures and I am pleased 
with progress in these areas. Notwithstanding the 
fact that we are already the lowest cost operator in 
the sector, we are targeting cost reductions across the 
supply chain from the collection of milk from farms,  
to its processing and packing and finally its onward 
distribution to customers. To date we have identified  
a number of further cost saving opportunities within 
our supply chain. These included the closures of our 
operating facilities at Okehampton and Cupar, which 
were announced during March 2011. These have now 
been closed and the business transferred to other 
nearby sites. We will continue to seek to improve our 
operating efficiencies across the business and also  
to continue to invest in projects that will help us 
improve margins.
Shareholder Returns
Reflecting the intense pressures on the business, 
basic earnings per share (EPS) declined from 50.13p 
in 2010 to 39.02p in the current year. The adjusted 
EPS was 37 .32p (2010: 47 .22p).
I am pleased to confirm that despite the drop in profits 
we are maintaining the declared dividend at the 
same level as the prior year. In addition to the interim 
dividend of 5.75p per share paid to shareholders in 
February, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 12.25p per share, bringing the total dividend for the 
year to 18.0p (2010: 18.0p). The final dividend will be 
payable on 15 September 2011 to shareholders on  
the register at close of business on 5 August 2011.
The Board recognises the importance of our dividend 
payment to shareholders and the level of dividend 
will continue to reflect the profits generated, the cash 
requirements of the business and the Board's view  
of the Group's future prospects.
Sustainability
In the current year we have established ambitious 
targets to further improve our environmental 
performance. We are focussed on reducing the  
level of greenhouse gases generated, the amount  
of waste directed to landfill and on improving our 
energy and water efficiencies. We look forward to 
continuing to drive efficiencies across our business, 
whilst seeking to achieve our challenging 
environmental targets.
People
We have seen a considerable amount of new 
business incorporated into the Group during the 
course of the year, all of which has been absorbed 
into our operations successfully. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank all of the Group's personnel 
for their contribution during the year and, in 
particular, in serving our customers during the harsh 
winter weather conditions. In addition, I would also 
like to record my appreciation for those staff affected 
by the site closures who acted in a professional 
manner throughout the process of consultation, 
announcement and transfer of business. I wish 
them well for the future and thank them for the 
support and commitment they have given the 
business through the years.
Board
The business has reacted positively to the changes 
to the Board announced in May of last year whereby 
Billy Keane and Gerry Sweeney assumed the roles 
of Managing Director and Group Finance Director 
respectively in July 2010.
Outlook
We have previously highlighted the intense 
competitive pressures that have impacted the 
business in the last year. In recent months we  
have increased the amount paid for raw milk 
supplies and experienced significant and sustained 
increases in oil related costs. As a result of these 
factors, we took steps to recover these costs through 
price increases to customers. 
In our pre-Close Trading Update in March we noted 
that it was unclear whether recent increases in costs, 
which arose subsequent to us commencing our 
pricing negotiations with customers, were reflective  
of short-term volatility or would be established for the 
longer-term. At the end of March, the higher input 
costs amounted to a  5.0 million annualised increase 
in our cost base. Since that date costs have continued 
to rise. Currently the costs of the resin used to produce 
plastic bottles and fuel are respectively 20% and 13% 
higher than the average costs incurred in the year to 
March 2011. Whilst the longer-term outlook remains 
uncertain, were these to stay at their present levels 
through to March 2012, the annualised increase in  
our cost base for resin, fuel and other costs would 
now be in the order of  7.5 million. 
We are operating in a challenging economic and 
market environment but our business remains strong, 
profitable and cash generative with low debt levels 
and first class operating facilities, management  
and employees. The pressure on margins caused  
by higher input costs continues and is unhelpful, but  
we are working relentlessly to improve our cost base 
where possible. The Board remains optimistic about 
the Group's long-term prospects.
Robert T Wiseman
Executive Chairman
17 May 2011
Our business remains strong, 
profitable and cash generative 
with low debt levels and first class 
operating facilities, management  
and employees.