 t he group conducts business on a global basis and has 
customers in 120 countries. It is this broad customer base, 
coupled with an extensive product and services portfolio, 
which underpins our success. we have continued to grow 
our order book in 2010 to  59.2 billion. underlying profits 
before tax increased by four per cent to  955 million.
we are proposing a final payment to shareholders of  
9.6 pence per share, bringing the full year payment to  
16 pence per share. t his is an increase of 6.7 per cent  
and reflects the board's continuing confidence in the 
group's business.
International trade tensions, uneven growth, fiscal 
tightening and currency instability have combined to 
make the economic environment uncertain. In these 
circumstances it is important to have a balanced business 
portfolio. t his a nnual report records that our three 
businesses outside civil aerospace - marine, defence 
aerospace and energy - have all grown underlying profits 
at double digit rates during 2010, adding to the resilience 
of the business.
we continue to benefit from the high barriers to entry 
which are a consequence of our long-term investments 
and the businesses in which we are involved. o ur 
high-technology products and services require 
sophisticated systems integration and are hard to replicate. 
we continuously explore new ways in which technologies 
developed in one part of our business can be applied in 
others, reinforcing this strong market position. 
a s well as meeting the challenges of the marketplace  
in 2010, Rolls-Royce has had to manage the high  
profile failure of a t rent 900 engine on a Qantas airbus 
a380. Rolls-Royce behaved as you would expect of a 
highly proficient engineering company. we identified the 
problem quickly, and applied ourselves to the swift return 
of the fleet to normal operation. I would like to thank our 
customers for their support, and recognise the 
tremendous efforts of Rolls-Royce management and staff 
in responding so professionally to this very regrettable 
incident. t he safety of our products has always been, and 
always will be our first priority.
we are committed to conducting business to the highest 
standards, and to enriching the societies in which we live 
and work. a s well as creating employment and generating 
wealth, we invest heavily and consistently in improving the 
environmental performance of our products. t hrough our 
own research, and in collaboration with universities around 
the world, we are driving innovation and extending the 
boundaries of human knowledge. o ur training 
programmes raise levels of skills and capability and set new 
standards of engineering excellence. Rolls-Royce people 
around the world are directly involved in community 
projects and voluntary activities, contributing to the 
communities in which we operate.
t his year we took further steps to embed our global Code 
of business ethics. Rolls-Royce is a responsible group and 
we are committed to ensuring that we conduct business 
appropriately and to the highest levels of integrity. In 
order to ensure that we achieve best practice, our 
procedures and training programmes are continually 
reviewed and involve all our employees. 
we have continued to invest in our own people through 
training and development programmes. t hese 
programmes operate worldwide, including from 
dedicated training facilities in the uK and uS. t hese 
facilities are used to run a range of programmes for  
our worldwide workforce and for our customers.
t he board is committed to improving our environmental 
performance across all business sectors. Continuous 
investment in the gas turbine engine, the core product 
for Rolls-Royce, has progressively improved fuel efficiency 
 t his has been a testing year, 
both for the world economy 
and for Rolls-Royce. I am 
therefore delighted to report 
that Rolls-Royce has performed 
well in these challenging 
circumstances. 
ChaIRmaN 'S
Stateme Nt
Governance Business review Financial statements
Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 02
Business review and will continue to do so. t he new t rent xwb for 
example will be 16 per cent more fuel efficient than the 
first t rent aero engine to enter service 15 years ago. t his 
means less cost for our customers as well as lower 
emissions. t he application of gas turbines and efficient 
diesel engines in the marine sector also offers the 
possibility of significant reductions in emissions at sea.  
a s well as developing core technologies, the group is 
exploring other low carbon energy sources including civil 
nuclear power, fuel cell technology and tidal power. 
In 2011, we are proposing to introduce a new holding 
company for the group. t his will enable us to continue 
our progressive shareholder payment policy and provide 
cash returns to shareholders in the most efficient manner 
through the issue and redemption of C Shares.
Rolls-Royce supports a wide range of charitable causes 
with particular emphasis on the armed forces benevolent 
funds and educational programmes involved with 
science and engineering.
t his year's Rolls-Royce Science prize was won by a team 
from teesdale School, County durham for their design 
project to enhance the lives of animals in their local zoo. 
t hey received their award of  20,000 from John Rose at 
an awards dinner attended by senior industry leaders, 
academics and government ministers. t he Science prize 
attracts entrants from thousands of schools across the uK. 
I would like to thank all our management and employees 
very much for their loyalty and hard work during the past 
year. o ur results are a testament to the focus and 
commitment I see demonstrated in every part of the 
business and at all levels of the organisation. I am constantly 
impressed by the initiative shown by Rolls-Royce people  
in seizing opportunities and responding to the needs of  
our customers.
o nce again the group benefited from the wise counsel of 
the International advisory board (Iab) during 2010. t his 
board, whose membership is set out later in this report, was 
established in 2006 to help provide a broad perspective on 
issues such as global political developments, business risks 
and opportunities and economic trends. t he advice they 
give is extremely valuable to us as we develop our global 
footprint and become more international in our outlook 
and behaviour. I would like to thank the members of the Iab 
for their work during the year in providing such high-level 
strategic advice.
I would also like to thank my fellow directors for their 
superb support and hard work over the past year. 
t here is of course one very important tribute to be paid by 
the board and everyone else in Rolls-Royce to our Chief 
executive, John Rose, who has announced his decision to 
retire at the end of march this year. John has been Chief 
executive for 15 years, during which time he has done the 
most extraordinary job. he has transformed Rolls-Royce 
into a world-class company operating on a global stage. 
his strategic vision has led to the construction of a resilient 
business with a powerful portfolio of internationally 
competitive products and services. his leadership and 
tenacity have helped establish a platform from which we 
expect revenues to double in the decade ahead. we owe 
John a huge debt of gratitude for what he has done for the 
Company, not only as Chief executive, but during his career 
of 27 years with Rolls-Royce.
John has also been a driving force in public policy, 
championing the cause of high value-added 
manufacturing and services. he argued for the importance 
of rebalancing the uK economy long before it became 
fashionable to do so. I am sure he will continue to be a 
powerful advocate for the importance of science, 
technology and maths, and of the importance of technical 
education in a nation's ability to generate wealth. 
John Rose will be succeeded as Chief executive by John 
Rishton, who is currently the Chief executive o fficer of the 
dutch based, global retail group Royal a hold. John Rishton 
has been a member of the Rolls-Royce board for four years. 
as well as knowing Rolls-Royce well, John has a deep 
understanding of the aviation industry gained as Chief 
Financial o fficer at british a irways. he also has 
manufacturing experience gathered from a number of 
senior positions at Ford. I have come to know John Rishton 
well. he is an outstanding individual, with experience as the 
successful Chief executive of a global publicly listed 
company. he is an instinctive team player, and was the 
unanimous choice of the board. I am certain he will prove 
himself a distinguished Chief executive of Rolls-Royce when 
he takes up his new role at the end of march this year.
t he technologies that Rolls-Royce deploys are at the 
frontiers of engineering. we continue to invest in  
the long-term growth of our group. we enjoy the 
long-term support of our large customer base and 
suppliers, and we will continue to broaden our portfolio 
organically or by acquisition in our core sectors. we 
intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and a single  
a credit rating which we believe provides the foundation 
for the long-term growth of our businesses.
a great company is built by first class, passionate and 
highly skilled people. we have these in Rolls-Royce and I 
believe that we will continue to improve our business 
and deliver excellent value for all our shareholders.
Sir Simon Robertson
Chairman
February 9, 2011
16.00p
Full year payment to 
shareholders
Governance Business review Financial statements
Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 03
Business review