 Rotala plc Annual Report 2006     Chairman's Statement and Review of Operations 4
Chairman's Statement
and Review of Operations
acquisition of the freehold and replenish the Company's equity
capital. A commercial mortgage of  1.5 million was also
obtained on the property to help with the finance. We have
concentrated since then on seeking businesses in the area
whose acquisition would enable us to make best use of the
site and its excellent facilities. Just before the end of the
accounting year, in October 2006, we were able to announce
the successful acquisition of Zak's Bus & Coach Services
Limited ( Zak's') for  30,000, though the acquisition included
taking on responsibility for debts in the company amounting to
 450,000. Zak's, operating about 40 vehicles in and around the
North Birmingham area, turns over some  2.1 million per
annum, consisting primarily of contracts with the West
Midlands Passenger Transport Executive ( Centro'),
Worcestershire County Council, Staffordshire County Council
and Birmingham City Council. To fund the acquisition, and to
meet the considerable extra demands on working capital, we
had conducted a further share placing of  1.571 million also in
October. Following the acquisition, the vehicles and operations
of Zak's were transferred to and integrated with those at Long
Acre. Duplicated administrative and maintenance overheads
were thereby eliminated. Just after the year end we added to
this business that of Birmingham Motor Traction Limited for a
consideration of  34,000. This business turns over some
 600,000 a year and operates 20 vehicles. The customer base
is very similar to that of Zak's. This business too has been
transferred to Long Acre to similar effect. We continue to look
for other suitable businesses in the northern part of
Birmingham to complement our fleet and make the maximum
possible use of the space at the depot.
The acquisition of Zak's brought with it an additional depot of
3.5 acres in North Birmingham on a long leasehold with 43
years to run. For the purposes of these accounts this property
has been valued at  900,000 by our professional valuation
advisers. The Board believes that this depot offers attractive
possibilities for expansion in the North Birmingham area once
Long Acre is running at full capacity, which we expect to be
achieved in 2007. Alternatively, if the Board believes that it is
beneficial, this asset will be exploited in its own right. 
Quite apart from these activities on the acquisition and capital
fronts, the Board has also continued to devote much effort to
the increase of turnover, reduction of costs and renewal of the
Group's vehicle fleet. Much attention has been devoted to the
appropriate profile of the vehicle fleet. The leases on the high
cost elements of the fleet acquired with the Flights Group in
I am pleased to be able to make this report to the shareholders
of Rotala plc ( Rotala' or  the Company') for the year ended 30
November 2006, the first full year of the Company's operation.
The profit and loss account on page 16 shows that the
Company sustained a loss of  2.7m for the year. This may be
compared to a loss of  1.15m in the prior period, most of
which was sustained in the three months after the acquisition
of the Flights Group in August 2005. Nevertheless I believe that
it has been a year in which the Board has managed to effect
considerable change in the business of the Group and thus
make significant progress towards the objective of achieving
positive results, after the most inauspicious start caused by the
circumstances of the acquisition of Flights. Those difficulties
are now well behind us and your Board has throughout the year
been focusing on delivering the strategy which was set out at
the time of the foundation of the Company.
I think it is as well at this point to re-iterate what that strategy
is. Rotala was conceived as a consolidator in an industry which,
outside of the giants within it, is highly fragmented. Many
existing operators are small and are only marginally profitable at
best. The opportunity therefore exists to put businesses
together, reduce overall overheads and secure decent margins.
At the same time the industry is a product of deregulation
some 20 years ago. Those who set themselves up in business
then are now approaching retirement and are looking to
capitalise on their lifetime of work. Rotala is well placed to take
advantage of this factor. Since Rotala was conceived and
launched in early 2005 there has also been a welter of political
developments which have served to bolster the logic of the
original strategy. The various reports on congestion and
environmental pollution, debates on road pricing and congestion
zones have focused attention on the necessity of investing in
bus and other transport networks, particularly in and around the
large conurbations. It is the objective of your Board to fulfil this
strategy by building a business, both by acquisition and organic
growth, around depots situated in those parts of the country
where there is suitable density of population and prospects of
continuing economic growth. 
With this aim in mind, one of the first steps that we took in the
year under review was to conclude in April 2006 our
negotiations to acquire the freehold to the Company's main
depot at Long Acre in Birmingham. This 4.5 acre site is well
located both close to the city centre and just off junction 6 of
the M6. The purchase price was  2 million. A placing of  1.625
million was completed at this time, both to finance the 2005 in the main end in 2007. The replacements for those
vehicles which are being retired have been carefully planned
and we are confident that, as the fleet is renewed, reliability
will improve and maintenance costs fall. The Board has taken 
a policy decision to acquire vehicles by hire purchase. Over
time this will create greater value for shareholders through the
equity the Company will own in those vehicles. This is in stark
contrast to the use, by the previous management, of operating
leases which bring with them no such beneficial characteristics.
In addition we can already see that the hire purchase rates at
which the vehicle leases will be taken out will in themselves
serve to reduce basic operating costs from their current levels.
The focus on cost reduction has yielded annualised savings of
some  1.2 million in the year and by the time the cost
reduction plan has had full effect at the end of 2007 a further
 1.5 million in annualised cost savings will have been achieved.
We have furthermore, wherever possible, sought to streamline
management structures and improve decision making. It was
with this object in mind that earlier in the year we decided to
amalgamate our two streams of business, airline on the one
hand and coach and bus on the other, under a single managing
director. We appointed Simon Dunn to this role and I am glad to
say that I was in September able to welcome Simon onto the
Chairman's Statement and Review of Operations     Rotala plc Annual Report 2006 5
The Board has taken a policy decision to acquire vehicles by hire
purchase. Over time this will create greater value for shareholders
through the equity the Company will own in those vehicles. Rotala plc Annual Report 2006     Chairman's Statement and Review of Operations 6
Board of Rotala in recognition of his new role and enhanced
responsibilities. He was at the same time joined by Geoff
Flight, a well-known figure in the industry, whose family had
founded the core of the Flights Group. Geoff has made 
a considerable impact with his expertise and has been 
a valuable additional resource in the implementation of our
acquisition strategy. 
I am also pleased to be able to report continuing success in our
objective to increase the revenues of the Group with new
contracts. Last year I was able to say that up to the time of
reporting, which was in May 2006, we had managed to be able
to obtain some  2.5 million of new work since we had acquired
the Flights Group. We have managed a continuation of this
trend in the last year and now the figure for new turnover totals
some  6 million. Within this figure are the contracts which
were the subject of our recent announcement. In it we were
delighted to be able to state that we had established a
presence in the Bristol market by obtaining two prestigious
park and ride contracts there. In our view Bristol has just the
characteristics which I have delineated above in my outline of
the Group's strategy. 
The success in obtaining new contracts underlines our
commitment to increase the Group's turnover and to become 
a significant force in transport operations in our chosen
locations. The Board remains convinced that the transport
sector offers many opportunities for growth, both organically
and by acquisition as I have outlined earlier in this statement. 
I continue to believe that one of the keys to success in the
sector is a strong financial as well as operational base. I intend
that we will take further decisive strides towards these twin
objectives as 2007 passes and build on the successes we have
achieved so far. 
I am pleased that the trend in reduction of losses has continued
in 2007 in accordance with our budgets. I expect that the
Group will attain positive results month by month both in cash
flows and profits as 2007 progresses. The Board believes that
its strategy will deliver a sizeable and profitable, integrated
transport group. I look forward to being able to report further
successes to you as the year goes on. It is pleasing to note that
the Company's share price has begun to reflect the progress
that is being made by reaching a level of 3.25p at the time of
writing compared to 1.875p at the end of November 2006.
In conclusion I would like to express my thanks to the whole
management team and all the staff, both older and more recent
arrivals. In a public facing industry such as this, I am forever
conscious that individuals in the Group, at whatever level,
represent the Company day in and day out. At the current level
of operations the Company conducts more than 1,000 vehicle
movements per day. It is therefore the commitment,
enthusiasm and attention to detail of all the staff which will
ensure the continued success of this business, allied as it is to
operational management of much skill and experience. Based
on these strengths I believe that my optimism for the
continued successful development of the Group is well
founded.
John Gunn
Non-Executive Chairman
25 May 2007 Chairman's Statement and Review of Operations     Rotala plc Annual Report 2006  7
It is pleasing to note
that the Company's
share price has begun
to reflect the progress
that is being made by
reaching a level of
3.25p at the time of
writing compared 
to 1.875p at the end
of November 2006.
The Board believes that its strategy will deliver a sizeable and
profitable, integrated transport group. I look forward to being 
able to report further successes to you as the year goes on. 