 Royal Mail Holdings plc 
 
4 
Chairman's Statement 
A record year for service to customers - but major challenges ahead 
Royal Mail has delivered a year of record high quality of service to its customers. Financial performance has also been 
outstanding, especially in the face of competition, with an operating profit of  355 million - an increase of 17.5% compared 
with last year - on record revenues of more than  9 billion.   
Parcelforce Worldwide has made a full-year profit for the first time ever and Post Office Limited has performed strongly to 
cut its losses in a year that finally saw the end of pension and benefit books. General Logistics Systems (GLS), Royal Mail's 
European parcels business, made a record profit and grew its revenues in a market where competition has intensified 
strongly.   
Our determination to share success with our people and reward them for excellent performance has been underlined with a 
 418 Share in Success payment to people across the company, including, for the first time, subpostmasters who are the 
backbone of our retailing network. The reward, which will be paid this month, amounts to a pay out of nearly  100 million 
and follows last year's payment of  1,074 to our people for successful delivery of the three-year Renewal Plan. Yet it doesn't 
seem that long ago when many doubted the company, which was losing well over  1 million a day in 2002, would again be 
profitable or capable of hitting customer service targets. 
We still have a mountain to climb. But last year showed that Royal Mail Group and its people have consolidated the gains we 
made during the Renewal Plan. There was always a danger that we could have slipped back, that hard-won gains would have 
crumbled - but we've sustained our turnaround and must continue to do so. That's a big achievement in itself. 
Crucially, we need to embark swiftly on the modernisation of Royal Mail. This is the key challenge the whole organisation is 
facing. It's an even more daunting task than the Renewal Plan we accomplished and it will test us all.   
Putting in new technology and replacing obsolete equipment, in time and to budget; further streamlining our operations and 
bringing our people with us at all times; increasing the focus on customers so that we deliver even better service in a market 
where rivals are after our business - all this will be incredibly stretching. It will mean a great deal of hard work. 
Meanwhile, we have to keep pumping cash into our pension fund - perhaps as much as  750 million a year - in order to 
fund our pension commitments to employees and clear a deficit that has now reached  5.6 billion. To put the deficit into 
stark perspective, it outstrips the Group's pre deficit net asset value of  2.3 billion by  3.3 billion. We have to find the money 
to clear the deficit.  It's a challenge that every one of us in the company can't ignore. 
And as hard as anything we do, the task of restructuring the Post Office network must be tackled to deal with chronic losses 
on operations of some  2 million a week. It means creating a sustainable future for the rural service, where the majority of 
the 7,854 branches are fundamentally loss-making and have needed every penny of the  150 million of funding made 
available by the Government to stay open. We await a decision on future funding from the Government but it's down to us to 
give the 500 directly managed branches in high streets and shopping malls - currently losing  50 million a year - a much 
stronger financial base, as well as making the busiest urban branches - directly managed or privately owned - much more 
attractive to visit by our customers. 
It's all going to be very tough. But it's encouraging that the building blocks we need are beginning to slot into place. A vital 
part of our plans was securing, after lengthy negotiations with Postcomm, a price control that allows significant investment in 
the business and gives us the ability to increase the cash payments into our pension fund whose deficit now totals  5.6 
billion.    
We have made tremendous progress in discussions with the Government - Royal Mail Group's shareholder - on our 
investment case for the future. We put a commercial plan to the Government which we are confident will enhance the value 
of the organisation for the shareholder. It is not a Government subsidy but a clear investable case for our shareholder and 
I'm pleased to say that we have reached agreement in principle with Government on this investment case as a whole.  There 
remains, inevitably, a huge amount of detail to be worked through over the coming weeks, including ensuring we get the 
right incentive scheme in place for our people.  We know taking our people with us is central to our plans.  We believe giving 
them a stake in the company would be a huge incentive for our people to achieve the efficiency gains essential if we are to 
compete successfully to retain and win customers in the face of tough competition and importantly we know this is 
something they want and would respond to.  This commercially focused investment from our shareholder will give us an 
opportunity to modernise and transform a business which is vital to the success of UK plc. 
We can't take anything for granted. The mail market opened to full competition and bulk mailers, already active, have in the 
last 12 months handled more than one billion letters under access agreements with Royal Mail. Our postmen and 
postwomen are still delivering this mail but we've lost revenue as it is transported directly into our mail centres. We face the 
prospect of access volumes climbing to three billion items per annum within the next two years, which would amount to 
around one in seven of the letters we currently handle.   
We need to be more efficient. In the letters business, we need a  2 billion investment programme with financing both from 
the Government and revenues we generate from turnover to replace ageing and obsolete equipment and put in place new 
technology giving us the efficiencies, capabilities and a more flexible cost base in order to compete successfully and provide 
the service our customers need.    Royal Mail Holdings plc 
 
5 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
The Post Office network also needs investment to give it a sustainable future. We are seeing new revenues from the range of 
new products introduced in the last couple of years in the network - the most recent have been the Instant Saver account 
and a credit card - but we have also lost annual revenues worth  327 million as a result of the loss of traditional benefits 
payments. The Post Office Card Account, used by 4.2 million pensioners and benefit recipients, will be phased out by 2010, 
and the future of the rural network and the level of future financing available post 2008 lie in Government hands. We 
continue to discuss with our shareholder the best way to secure Post Office services going forward. Balancing the need to 
run the network as efficiently as possible while meeting the social need fulfilled by branches in communities nationwide is a 
difficult challenge but it is one we are embracing.     
The UK parcels market has become even more competitive in the last year. But the hard work the business and its people 
have put into restructuring its operations and the focus on delivering high quality service to its 21,000 business customers 
has paid off with the first full year of profitability. Parcelforce Worldwide will have to continue to work hard to ensure it stays 
profitable in a market that gets tougher every year.   
The star performer in the Group in terms of profitability is GLS which saw a 37% increase in profits to  100 million on 
revenues which grew strongly to more th an  1 billion.  It's an outstanding example of the achievements which flow from a 
dedicated focus on customers and efficiency.     
In fact, it's what the whole of Royal Mail is seeking to do. Our number one priority remains to deliver consistent, excellent 
quality of service to our customers. Underpinning that is an unceasing drive to run all our operations as efficiently as possible 
- and making the right investments in our operations will be crucial to achieving higher productivity. The key to everything we 
do is our people.  We believe that to give them a real stake in the business will be a powerful incentive for increasing yet 
further their commitment and dedication. We have made tremendous progress and have reached agreement in principle with 
the Government on the investment case to achieve all this.  The investment case will give us the means to build a successful 
future. Then it will be down to everyone in Royal Mail to climb that mountain. 
 
 
 
 
 
Allan Leighton 
Chairman 
17 May 2006 
The prior year figures quoted have been restated for the impact of the transition to International Financial Reporting 
Standards. All references to operating profit are before exceptional items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 