 RPC continued to prosper in the past year despite various external influences having a roller-
coaster effect on our performance. Prime amongst these was the uncertainty created in the run
up to the Gulf War which impacted on all the economies in which we trade, but there were also
movements in exchange rates (largely positive from an RPC perspective), a sharp slow-down in the
growth-rates of the major economies in which we operate, and volatility in raw material prices
which were challenging to manage. It is gratifying to be able to report that RPC has nonetheless
delivered record performance at all levels - turnover, operating profit, profit before tax, and
earnings per share. The first two of these have now increased every year since our inception in
1991 demonstrating the robustness of our business over the long term.
Earnings per share increased by 6% to 17.3p (16.3p). Profit before tax increased by 7% to  21.5m
( 20.1m). Gearing reduced significantly from 109% to 88% as the Group experienced the
progressive benefit of the more favourable Sterling:Euro exchange rate. Interest cover increased
from 4.0 times to 4.5 times. Under these circumstances, the Board is recommending a
continuation of the uninterrupted sequence of dividend increases since our flotation in May 1993
which would take the year's total to 6.3p (6.0p).
Turnover grew by 9% and exceeded  400m for the first time. A number of bespoke products on
which we have been working for some time came to fruition - in the margarine market, in the
paint market, in the pharmaceutical market, in disposables, and in the toiletries market. These
partnerships with our customers will grow further in the new financial year because they are now
in place for the duration of a full year, and it is also pleasing to note that there are more
customised products in the pipeline. This reflects, we believe, growing recognition of RPC as the
leader in rigid plastic packaging in Europe with our wide geographical spread, our presence in all
the major technologies, our technical, design and development capabilities, and our quality and
service. The weakening of the pound is also giving early signs that our industrial container ranges
in the UK market may be recovering a little from the recessionary conditions that have plagued
UK manufacturing industry in recent years.
Business Review
Our focused clusters of like operations have progressed as follows:
  The Bramlage-Wiko-Cresstale cluster grew dramatically on the back of a high level of capital
investment, a lot of which was made on behalf of our customers and will be repaid to us over
the lifetime of the various projects concerned. Expansion has required building projects to be
undertaken at three of the six sites in the cluster to accommodate new business already
identified and in many cases subject to contract as well. The technology available from this
part of our Group has increasingly attracted the attention of our customer base.
  Our Bebo packaging thermoforming business has also grown and, with three of the seven
plants located in Poland, offers interesting opportunities for us to take advantage of EU
expansion into Eastern Europe in the years to come. The purchase of the assets of a competing
plant in the Netherlands has led to some very necessary consolidation in the Dutch
RPC Group Plc Statement by the chairman and chief executive 
4
Lawn Fertiliser pack for
PBI by RPC Containers,
Raunds
Oxygen Scavenger
tub for Heinz by
RPC Bebo Plastik,
Bremerv rde thermoforming industry as well as enabling us to offer a more comprehensive service to our
Dutch customers.
  Injection Moulding in the UK grew, but mainly as a result of the new operation at Old Dalby
near Melton Mowbray coming fully on-stream for the manufacture of high-volume, thin-
walled margarine tubs. Sales of our stock range of buckets and pails contracted slightly, but
are expected to recover over the coming months because of the lessening of competitive
pressures from Mainland Europe.
  Our Tedeco-Gizeh disposables thermoforming business consolidated its two factory operations
at Deventer in the Netherlands onto one purpose-built site. This was temporarily disruptive but
now positions us for higher output from a lower cost base than in the past. Of the other six
operations in the cluster, three are in Eastern Europe, one in Hungary, one in Poland and one,
a new distribution centre, in Romania, again offering us good opportunities for growth in the
newly-configured Europe of the future.
  Our Blow Moulding operations grew as a result of the planned development in our multi-layer
co-extruded business from one site at Corby in the UK to our Kutenholz site in Northern
Germany. The latter also achieved some significant contract-wins in its own right some of
which were also of benefit to our Spanish operations.
  Cobelplast, our sheet-forming business in Belgium and Italy, also grew particularly as a result
of supplying material within the Group to our thermoforming activities. We now have a major
investment project underway in Italy to expand our presence in the growing market for the
extrusion of polyester sheet which will be operational for the second half of the 2003/04
financial year.
Financial Review
The turnover in 2002/03 was 8.6% ahead of 2001/02, whilst the volume growth was 4.1% and the
translation effect (of the fall in the Sterling:Euro exchange rate) accounted for a further 2.8% of
the movement. Polymer costs rose in line with turnover, but some other costs, notably label costs
and insurance premiums, increased more substantially. This led to pressure on our margin, which
declined from 7.1% in 2001/02 to 6.8% in 2002/03, even though operating profit benefited from a
translation gain of  0.7m.
The interest charge for 2002/03 was lower than in 2001/02 as a result of the fall in interest rates.
The rate of the corporation tax provision in the profit and loss account remained 30% while the
net amount of tax paid was less than two thirds of the provision.
The balance sheet strengthened substantially because of the weakening of Sterling against the Euro.
The benefit was enhanced by our strategy of keeping the borrowings mainly in Sterling. The total
increase in shareholders funds over the year was  22.4m, of which  9.6m is attributable to retained
profits and  11.5m to the movement in the Sterling:Euro rate, which fell from  1= 1.63 at 31 March
2002 to  1= 1.45 at 31 March 2003. 
5
Campina NutriStart bottle
by RPC Verpackungen
Kutenholz
Nestl  After Eight
Mints box by  
RPC Containers,
Market Rasen Working capital levels increased, partly because of the higher level of trading, partly because of
the currency movement and partly because of a decision to build stock levels prior to the end of
the financial year in anticipation of the impact of the war in Iraq.
During November we renegotiated our multi-currency revolving credit facility. In this we were
gratified by the level of support from our banks which permitted us to raise the level of the
facility to  130m without committing the Company to a more demanding interest cover covenant.
The cash flow statement reveals that the Company's EBITDA was an all time record at  52.5m in
2002/03 ( 49.1m in 2001/02). The investment in capital expenditure was also at the record level
of  34.9m but there was a substantial sale and lease back of our new Deventer factory to set
against this.
UK Pension Scheme
In common with almost every defined benefit pension scheme, RPC's UK pension scheme has
moved from a surplus at the last actuarial review date (31 March 2000) to a substantial deficit.
To address this issue the members' contribution increased with effect from 1 June 2003 from
6% to 10% and the employer's contribution rate rose from 9.6% to 13%. In addition, a number
of the scheme benefits were reduced in relation to members' future service, and a more
economical section of the scheme was introduced in which employer's and members'
contributions are respectively 8% and 6%. It is anticipated that our pension costs will increase
by no more than  2m in 2003/04, of which  1m will be an SSAP 24 adjustment and therefore a
non-cash item.
Dividend
Your Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 0.2p to 4.25p per share (2001/02:
4.05p), making a total for the year of 6.3p (2001/02: 6.0p), an increase of 5%. Subject to approval
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 29 August 2003 to
shareholders on the Register on 1 August 2003.
RPC Personnel
The conditions under which RPC has operated during the year have been exacting and our success
in surmounting the consequent challenges and generating record results is testimony to the
quality and commitment of our staff - we are pleased to be able to record our appreciation of all
their efforts.
Peter Hole, Director and General Manager of RPC Containers Corby and Halstead joined the
Group Board in January 2003. Apart from being responsible for the Corby business from 1988 to
date, during which its turnover has increased tenfold and it has become one of the most
successful operations within the Group, he is also Chairman of the Trustee of the RPC Containers
Limited Pension Scheme.
RPC Group Plc Statement by the chairman and chief executive
continued
6
Marks & Spencer Soup
pots by RPC Containers,
Blackburn
L'Or al Garnier
cream jars by RPC
Bramlage, Lohne Outlook
Notwithstanding the difficult economic conditions, particularly in Mainland Europe, trading in
the new financial year has started well with continued growth in virtually all areas and with
activity levels in the UK showing early signs of benefiting from Sterling becoming more
competitive. The external environment thus seems rather more clement at present, whilst
internally the benefits of our clear strategy and the increasing momentum of new projects
supported by sustained investment are progressively becoming more apparent. Under these
circumstances the Board looks forward to further development of the Group's favourable trading
trends in the financial year ahead.
J P Williams R J E Marsh
Chairman Chief Executive
7
Beiersdorf's Labello lip
salve pack by RPC
Bramlage, Lohne
ICI Dulux paint can
by RPC Containers,
Oakham