 CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
MEYER KAHN
4
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chairman's statement For more information on our share price and dividend history, visit 
www.sabmiller.com/sabmiller.com/en_gb/Investors/Shares
Dear Shareholder
This has been another
successful year for the
group, with a strong
volume performance and
good earnings growth.
Our portfolio of developing and developed
market operations generated 10% organic
growth in lager volumes and 12% growth in
earnings before interest, tax and amortisation
(EBITA) on an organic, constant currency
basis. Group EBITA now stands at
US$3,591 million and the group EBITA
margin increased to 17.4%, a rise of
20 basis points over the prior year. This
translated into a 14% increase in profit
before tax to US$2,804 million and a 10%
increase in adjusted earnings per share 
to 120 US cents.
Total lager volumes stood at 216 million
hectolitres, up 10% organically, and up 23%
after taking into account the first full year 
of contributions from our South American
businesses. Including soft drinks and other
beverages, the group achieved total beverage
volumes of 272 million hectolitres, up 10%
on an organic basis and 23% above last
year on a reported basis.
Net cash generated from operations, at 
over US$4,000 million, was 22% above the
prior year, reflecting the overall strength 
of the trading performance and our strong
cash characteristics. The group's gearing
decreased at the year end to 45.8% from
last year's 52.3%.
The board has proposed a final dividend 
of 36 US cents per share, making a total 
of 50 US cents per share for the year, an
increase of 14% over the prior year. The
dividend is covered 2.4 times by adjusted
earnings per share.
Operational highlights
Europe delivered an excellent full-year
performance, its sixth consecutive year of
double-digit earnings growth, with EBITA 
of US$733 million, up 29% on a reported
basis. Poland and Russia continued their run
of strong growth while Romania increased its
volumes by 23%. It was also pleasing to see
a solid improvement in profitability from Italy. 
In Latin America, our strategy is delivering
volume, revenue and earnings growth 
ahead of our expectations, with EBITA of
US$915 million. New brand launches and
package renovations are beginning to lift 
the image of beer in consumers' minds and
contributed to an acceleration of volume
growth in the second half of the year. We
also continue to benefit from the region's
strong economic growth.
It's been a tough year for Miller, our North
American business, with rising commodity
costs and intense price competition
continuing to diminish the value of the beer
market. As a result, EBITA for the period 
of US$375 million was 17% lower than 
the previous year. Nevertheless, we are
undeterred and the leadership team has a
clear plan to return the business to growth.
Our portfolio of businesses in Africa has
performed well and we now see much
greater economic stability in these markets. 
In Asia, our Chinese associate continues 
to power ahead, with the Snow brand
established as the national leader. In India,
volumes were up strongly, albeit from a small
base. EBITA for the Africa and Asia region
was US$467 million, up 11% despite
currency weakness in some countries.
In South Africa, new marketing and pack
innovations continued to drive growth in the
premium lager category while soft drinks
sales were strong, particularly in the final
quarter. The result was a good earnings
performance, with EBITA of US$1,102
million, a 14% increase on a constant
currency basis. The loss of the licence to
brew a major premium beer in South Africa 
in March 2007 had no impact on
performance in the period under review. 
Continuing growth
This has been a busy year, with the 
group actively shaping and expanding 
its international portfolio of businesses.
Acquisitions and joint ventures in China,
Vietnam, Australia and Angola have been
further steps in creating an attractive,
international spread of businesses 
with good exposure to fast growing,
developing markets.
Along with our wide international footprint
(now covering over 60 countries on six
continents), we continue to benefit from 
our increasing scale. Since our UK listing 
in 1999, our lager volumes have grown from 
48 million to 216 million hectolitres a year -
an increase of 350%. Over the same period,
group adjusted earnings have risen from
US$394 million to US$1,796 million. As a
result, total shareholder return since 1999
stands at 217% compared with 31% for 
the FTSE 100 as a whole (as measured at
31 March 2007). 5
Chairman's statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
This is a strong record and due in no small
measure to the rigorous application of a
clear, consistent strategy, designed to reap
maximum rewards from the opportunities 
we face. On the following pages our Chief
Executive, Graham Mackay, gives more
details of the strategy itself and how its
application has contributed to our growth 
in the past year. 
But it's not just about growth, for we also
take great pride in the quality of our product.
Our high standards have again been
recognised in a long list of brewing awards.
We were particularly pleased that Miller was
recognised as US Brewmaster of the Year
at the World Beer Cup. 
Sustainable development 
In seeking to do the best for the countries
and communities in which we operate, 
we believe we contribute most by simply
running successful businesses that create
jobs and stimulate local economic activity. 
A recent study by the Bureau for Economic
Research in South Africa supports this view
by revealing that our South African business,
as well as employing 8,600 people directly,
supports 46,000 jobs among first-round
suppliers and over five times that number 
in the wider economy. Every rand in sales
revenue generated by the business adds
R1.80 to South Africa's GDP . 
As mentioned last year, our approach to
corporate responsibility has been codified 
in ten environmental and social priorities. 
All our businesses are now embedding these
priorities into their operations and striving to
ensure that they meet the required standards.
One of these priorities is to promote the
responsible consumption of alcohol, and we
support programmes around the world that
address the misuse of alcohol. That said, 
we disagree with broad regulatory proposals
for reducing consumption in the general
population. We question whether such
proposals would succeed and believe they
may have unintended consequences such
as fostering illicit alcohol production, with
significant health risks for consumers. 
They would also penalise the overwhelming
majority of our consumers who enjoy our
products responsibly. 
In January 2007, SABMiller committed itself
to the ten principles of the UN Global
Compact that seeks progress in human and
labour rights, environmental protection and
tackling corruption. Our alignment with the
UN in this way supports the implementation
of our own sustainable development
framework and ensures we align with
worldwide best practice. 
Our people
We were delighted to welcome John
Davidson, who joined the group in August, 
as our new General Counsel and Group
Company Secretary. Our thanks go to his
predecessor, Andrew Tonkinson, for 14 years
of excellent service to the board. In May
2007, we announced that Nancy De Lisi had
stepped down from the board following her
retirement from the Altria Group. We thank
her, too, for her outstanding contribution to
our deliberations and wish her a long and
happy retirement. Altria's nominee as her
successor is Dinyar Devitre, Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, whom
we welcomed to the board on 16 May. 
We are fortunate in the high calibre of 
our directors and I would like to thank all 
my board colleagues for their wise counsel
and strategic advice during the year. 
I also recognise that this year's strong
performance reflects the dedication and hard
work of all our executives, managers and
staff around the world. My thanks go also 
to them as well as to our business partners
and to you, our shareholders, for your
continuing support. 
As part of our responsibility to shareholders,
we aim to observe the highest standards of
corporate governance. To this end, we have
further refined our reporting processes to align
them more closely to the UK government's
OFR requirements. The changes are reflected
in this year's Annual Report. 
Outlook
This has been another year of good growth
for the group, with a particularly strong
performance in the fourth quarter.
We have established a compelling portfolio of
brands and businesses and, given the strong
growth in many markets, we will be increasing
our investments behind these assets in the
coming year. While we face some challenges,
including increasing commodity cost
pressures and the need to rebuild our share
of the premium segment in South Africa, we
expect the group's underlying progress of
recent years to continue.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
  Miller Lite - American-
Style Light Lager 
  Miller High Life - 
American-Style Lager 
  Icehouse - America-Style
Speciality Lager 
  Henry Weinhard's Classic
Dark - American-Style 
Dark Lager 
Share price
1 April 2002 to 31 March 2007 (  sterling)
02 03 04 05 06 07
2.00
4.00
6.00
8.00
10.00
12.00
14.00
Source: Thomson Datastream
Our Sustainable Development Report 2007 is available at 
www.sabmiller.com/sabmiller.com/en_gb/Our+responsibility