 SAFESTORE PLC 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
2 
This is the first full set of results since I was appointed Chairman and Steve Williams was appointed Chief Executive 
in January 2002.  I am delighted to report a period of excellent progress for Safestore.  We have addressed all the 
objectives that were outlined at the time and have made significant progress towards our key target of accelerating 
the drive to profitability. 
The Company has continued to improve the quality of its sites, focusing on London and the South East.  We have 
disposed of non-core sites and expanded the space at existing stores.  New stores have been conservatively 
introduced but with accelerated revenue programmes.  We have applied proven retail techniques to improve core and 
ancillary sales. 
Results for the second six months of the year show the positive impact these changes have had on the business.  
Turnover for the second half of the year, excluding new stores, is 21% higher than the first half at  3.5m and the 
operating loss for the same period has been reduced by 42% to  0.2m. 
Our established stores continue to trade well with newer stores performing significantly ahead of our expectations.  
Revenues have increased through the increase in let square footage, controlled price management and the substantial 
growth of our insurance and merchandise sales.  This, together with the tight control of operating costs has resulted 
in improved margins across the business.  Our programme to reduce central costs has been delivered in line with the 
aggressive targets set in January 2002. 
During the year Safestore has opened four new stores at Battersea, Basildon, Deptford and High Wycombe bringing 
our total number of stores trading under the Safestore brand to twenty-one.  Additionally, as reported in the interim 
results, we opened our first joint venture store under the Spacia Safestore brand in March 2002.  All our new stores 
are trading well and are above target. 
Financial results 
Trading results for the 12 months ended 31 October 2002 are significantly ahead of expectation and budget. 
Overall, group turnover has increased by 19% to  6.5m (2001:  5.5m) whilst group turnover for our twenty-one 
continuing stores has increased by 39% to  6.2m (2001:  4.5m).  The Company now has over 4,300 self-storage 
customers, an increase of 43% over last year. 
Like for like sales, for the eleven stores open through the whole of the current and prior period, increased by 17% to 
 4.8m (2001:  4.1m) with rates per square foot increasing by 5.6% to  20.50 (2001:  19.42). 
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) for the eleven like for like stores rose by 13% to  2.2m (2001:  1.95m).  For 
the first time the EBIT generated by these stores more than covers central costs for the whole company, which have 
been reduced by 25% to  1.9m (2001:  2.5m). 
At 31 October 2002 annualised revenues, for the twenty-one continuing stores, rose by 49% to  7.4m (2001:  5.0m). 
The outcome of our concerted focus on ancillary sales has exceeded our expectations.  We are the market leader in 
this area with merchandise, insurance and other sales representing 16.7% of storage income during the year (2001: 
11.1%). 
The Group loss before interest and tax (LBIT) was  1.3m before exceptional items.  Included in this is a  0.7m 
operating loss contributed by the four stores opened during the year. 
As reported in the interim results we incurred a  0.14m exceptional charge in the first half of the year.  These 
charges comprised compensation for loss of office, in the main offset by a writeback of a share option related bonus 
payment provision, additional depreciation on our site in Paris and a writeback of  0.21m excess provision in 
relation to the discontinued stores which have now all been sold.  In the second half of the year we have charged an 
additional  0.43m to exceptional items being additional depreciation on our Basingstoke and Poole sites.  This 
charge aligns these properties, which have never traded, to their realisable value. 
The sale of these stores will be completed shortly to release value to continue the focused development of the 
business.  These transactions are expected to realise  3.3m of cash for utilisation in the business.  In addition, the 
disposal of the site in Paris is expected to complete early in the new year generating an additional  0.45m of free 
cash. 
In line with our stated policy of preservation of cash for organic expansion, we will not be paying a dividend (2001: 
 nil).  SAFESTORE PLC 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
3 
Funding 
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was  0.07m (2001: outflow of  1.8m).  The overall cash 
outflow for the year, after loan repayments and capital acquisitions was  5.0m (2001:  11.2m). 
As reported at the interim results, during the year we have repaid  2.1m of term loans.  These have been replaced by 
a ten-year  7m revolving credit facility on which there is no amortisation until December 2006.  At the year-end we 
had drawn  0.5m of this facility, on a short-term basis, against a cash balance of  0.44m giving net borrowings of 
 0.06m (2001: net funds of  3.3m). 
The credit facilities in place together with the planned disposal of four stores, all of which are non-trading, and the 
move to profitability should result in no additional funding requirements for the foreseeable future. 
Operations 
In line with the strategy outlined at the beginning of the year, the Company has continued to improve the quality of 
its sites with a concentration in London and the South East.  As planned we have opened four new stores in Basildon, 
Battersea, Deptford and High Wycombe plus our joint venture with Spacia in Bermondsey.  We have also completed 
the sale and disposal of six non-core stores.  The result of this strategy, together with our continued fitting out of 
additional self-storage in our existing stores and the recently completed extension at Alexandra Palace, is that we are 
trading from an additional 86,000 net square foot in high visibility, prime locations within our targeted areas. 
Safestore currently operates from 14 freehold and 8 leasehold trading stores, including the joint venture store at 
Bermondsey.  These twenty-two stores have a total of 670,000 square foot of potential storage space, of which 
435,000 square foot had been fitted by the year-end.  At 31 October 2002, 317,000 square foot was occupied, giving 
an occupancy level of 73%. 
It is planned to open a further store in Portsmouth, which will result in an additional 45,000 square foot of storage 
space.  We will maintain our programme to fit out undeveloped space and extend stores where appropriate.  The 
Company will acquire and open stores at a conservative rate when the opportunity arises. 
The board of Safestore will continue the strategy of focusing on stores within London and the South East.  The 
management team will also focus its efforts on maximising opportunities within the existing stores.  The main thrust 
of this being increasing occupancy levels and improving the rate per square foot yield whilst containing operational 
costs. 
Each store has an individual detailed and aggressive sales plan; this together with the corporate marketing strategy, 
our free pick up service and  lowest price guarantee' are proving to be very successful in achieving our growth and 
revenue forecasts. 
Corporate 
As reported in the interim results, I am pleased to inform you that our first joint venture store with Spacia in 
Bermondsey, which opened in March 2002, continues to trade well and ahead of budget.  Our investment in the joint 
venture remains well funded with cash available to roll out additional stores if and when they can be identified. 
People 
Richard Hodsden joined us as finance director on 27 August 2002.  He was formerly Finance Director of the 
Globalvault plc group of companies which comprises the security printing business which demerged from The 
Stationery Office in 1999. 
The Company recognises the significant role our people play in the success of the business.  We have therefore 
embarked on a comprehensive training programme covering subjects such as sales, service and people management.  
We are also working towards accreditation to Investors in People.  All our store managers have attended these 
programmes and it is now being cascaded throughout the business. 
All store and key management have clear business objectives and are incentivised on the results and their personal 
achievements.  In addition, all now participate in the company share option scheme. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues throughout the business for their hard work and 
dedication over the past 12 months.  SAFESTORE PLC 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
4 
Outlook 
Following this year of consolidation and successful delivery of new strategy, Safestore has a strong platform for 
measured growth in the year ahead.  We look forward to continued growth in a controlled cost environment, 
necessary to drive the Company to profitability given a stable economic background. 
The recently opened new stores have traded considerably above our expectations, whilst the mature stores continue 
to deliver steadily increasing profits on high occupancy rates. 
The year finished strongly with October breaking several company records including square foot let, ancillary sales 
and group revenues.  Since the year-end we have continued to show encouraging growth in all revenue streams. 
I am confident that the breadth of experience of the board allied to the retail skills of the management team, together 
with the dedication of the staff will ensure the Company maintains the progress and momentum of the past twelve 
months. 
Notwithstanding the general economic uncertainties there is a major market opportunity for Safestore to exploit.  We 
will do so with focus, rigour and with a firm eye on the drive to profitability. 
 
 
C G Clarke 
9 December 2002 