 02
The	 Sage	 Group	 plc	 	 	
Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2010
Chairman's statement
Dear Shareholder
Overview
Against	 a	 tough	 market	 background,	 	
our	 business	 model	 has	 proved	 robust.	 	
Our	 customers	 continue	 to	 rely	 upon	 us	 	
as	 a	 trusted	 partner	 in	 helping	 them	 to	 run	
their	 business	 and,	 over the	 past	 three	 years,	
800,000	 new	 customers	 have	 joined	 us.	
By working	 closely	 with	 our	 high	 quality	
business	 partners	 and	 by	 supporting	
customers	 with	 locally	 based	 services	
and solutions,	 we	 have	 continued	 to	 grow	
our	 customer	 base	 around	 the	 world.	
This has	 helped	 us	 to	 navigate	 through	
these turbulent	 times	 and	 position Sage	
well for	 future	 growth.
We	 have	 traded	 well	 throughout	 this	 	
financial	 year	 and	 we	 have	 seen	 good	
growth	 momentum	 in the	 business.	 	
We	 produced	 3%*	 organic	 revenue	 growth	 	
in	 the	 second	 half	 of	 the	 year,	 compared	 	
with	 a	 contraction	 of	 2%*	 in the	 first	 half	 	
and	 a	 contraction	 of	 5%*	 in	 the	 year	 ended	
30	 September	 2009.	 Our	 subscription	
revenues	 continue	 to	 grow,	 with	 renewal	
rates	 maintained	 at	 81%	 in	 the	 year	 ended	
30	 September	 2010.
Our	 strong,	 reliable	 cash	 flows	 have	 enabled	
us	 to	 maintain	 a	 robust	 balance	 sheet,	
whilst allowing	 us	 both	 to	 pursue	 a	
progressive	 dividend	 policy	 and	 to	 continue	
to	 invest	 in	 customer	 service,	 new	 products	
and	 our	 web	 strategy.	 Our	 culture	 of	
innovation	 means	 our	 products	 and	
services are	 well	 positioned.
Financial strength
The	 international	 nature	 of Sage	 is	 a	 great	
strength	 and	 this	 year	 over	 70%	 of	 revenue	
and	 profits were	 earned	 outside	 of	 the	 	
UK.	 Statutory	 pre-tax	 profit	 rose	 by	 20%	 	
to	  319.9m	 (2009:	  267 .4m),	 benefitting	 	
from	 a	 resilient	 business	 performance,	 	
tight	 cost	 control	 and	 currency	 movements.
The	 Group	 remains	 highly	 cash	 generative	
with	 operating	 cash	 flow	 of	  428.7m	 	
(2009:	  357 .6m),	 which allowed	 us	 to	
reduce net	 debt	 to	  219.8m ( 439.4m	 	
at	 30	 September	 2009).	 We	 refinanced	 	
our	 bank	 facilities	 during	 the	 year,	 	
raising	 US$300.0m	 of	 private	 placement	 	
loan	 notes	 and	 signing	 a	 new	 five	 year	
syndicated	 bank	 facility	 denominated	
US$271.0m	 and	  214.0m	 (total	  357 .4m).
Dividend 
Our	 consistently	 strong	 cash	 flows,	 	
robust	 balance	 sheet	 and	 recurring	 revenue	
streams	 provide	 a	 strong	 foundation	 for	 	
our	 progressive	 dividend	 policy,	 whilst	
ensuring	 that	 the	 Group	 can	 continue	 	
to	 maintain	 strong	 levels	 of	 organic	 and	
acquisition-led	 investment. As	 a	 result,	 we	
are	 increasing	 the full	 year	 dividend	 by	 5%	 	
to	 7 .80p	 per share	 (2009:	 7 .43p	 per	 share),	
with	 a	 proposed	 final	 dividend	 of	 5.22p	 	
per	 share	 (2009:	 4.93p	 per	 share).
People
In	 last	 year's	 report,	 I	 stated	 that	 we	 had	
reduced	 our	 headcount	 in	 response	 to	
the then	 current	 and	 forecast	 economic	
environment. The	 decisions	 we	 took	 were	
difficult	 for	 all	 of	 our	 people	 and	 it	 is	 to	 their	
great	 credit	 that	 our	 business	 has	 responded	
so	 positively. Our	 employee	 engagement	
scores	 are	 at	 record	 levels	 and	 whilst	 we	 are	
in	 no	 way	 complacent,	 we	 believe	 that	 this	
reflects	 the	 focus	 we	 have	 upon	 our	 business	
values	 (Sage	 Guiding	 Principles). In	 addition,	
we	 have	 continued	 our	 efforts	 to	 bring	 The	
Sage	 Leadership	 Standard	 to	 life,	 a	 set	 of	
values	 which	 define	 clearly	 what	 we	 expect	
from	 our	 business	 leaders.	
We	 have	 continued	 to	 invest	 heavily	 in	 our	
people	 agenda	 to	 ensure	 that	 we	 are	 well	
placed	 to take	 advantage	 of	 the	 economic	
recovery	 and	 have	 continued	 to	 make	
progress	 in	 improving	 our	 gender	 diversity	 	
at	 senior	 levels.	 Today,	 one	 third	 of	 our	 top	
200	 leaders	 are	 female.	
In	 October	 2010,	 Guy	 Berruyer	 succeeded	
Paul	 Walker	 as	 Chief	 Executive.	 Paul	 started	
at	 Sage	 in	 1984	 and	 was	 Chief	 Executive	
for 16	 years,	 making	 him	 one	 of	 the	 longest	
serving	 Chief	 Executives	 in	 the	 FTSE	 100.	 	
I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 Paul	 for	 his	 huge	
contribution	 to	 Sage.	 He	 built	 Sage	 from	 a	
UK	 software	 business	 into	 the	 market	
leading	 international	 Group	 that	 it	 is	 today.	
Paul	 leaves	 a	 very	 strong	 management	 team	
and	 a	 resilient	 business,	 in	 good	 shape	 for	
the	 years	 ahead.	 We	 wish	 him	 well	 in	 his	
future	 endeavours.
Having	 gone	 through	 a	 rigorous	 selection	
process,	 I	 am	 delighted	 that	 Guy	 was	 offered	
the	 role	 of	 Chief	 Executive.	 During	 his	 13	 year	
career	 with	 Sage,	 Guy	 has	 led	 the	 successful	
growth	 of	 our	 business	 in	 Mainland	 Europe	
and,	 more	 recently,	 in	 Asia.	 He	 has	 a	 strong	
record	 of	 profit	 growth,	 both	 organically	 and	
through	 the	 successful	 acquisition	 and	
integration	 of	 companies.	 He	 has	 a	 clear	 and	
knowledgeable	 view	 of	 how	 Sage	 should	
develop	 and	 has	 great	 ambition	 for	 the	
Group.	 We	 are	 sure	 that	 he	 will	 succeed	 in	
driving	 Sage	 forward	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 our	
customers,	 employees	 and	 shareholders.
On	 1	 December	 2010,	 we	 announced	
changes	 to	 Sage's	 Executive	 Committee	 and	
these	 are	 described	 in	 the	 Chief	 Executive's	
review	 in	 this	 Report	 and	 Accounts.	 Our	 new	
structure	 leverages	 the	 experience	 of	 our	
current	 executives	 and	 brings	 through	 a	 new	
generation	 of	 international	 leaders	 for	 Sage.	
The	 appointment	 of	 Guy	 and	 his	 new	
management	 team will	 reinvigorate	 our	
business	 and	 position	 us well	 to	 deliver	
further	 shareholder	 value	 and	 outstanding	
software	 and	 services	 for	 our	 customers	
and partners. 
*	 Underlying 	 figures	 neutralise	 the	 impact	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 movements	 and	
exclude	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 assets.	 Foreign	 currency	 results	
for	 the	 prior	 year	 ended	 30	 September	 2009	 have	 been	 retranslated	 based	
on the	 average	 exchange	 rates	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 September	 2010	 of	
$1.56/ 1	 and	  1.15/ 1	 to	 facilitate	 the comparison	 of	 results.	 	 Financial	 statements	 63
	 Governance	 36
	 Business	 review	 01
03
The	 Sage	 Group	 plc	 	 	
Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2010
At	 the	 AGM	 in	 March	 2011,	 Tim	 Ingram will	
stand	 down	 from	 the	 Board	 after	 nine	 years	
as	 a	 non-executive	 director.	 Tim	 has	 been	 	
a	 great	 colleague	 and	 wonderful	 contributor	
to	 the	 Board	 and	 the	 wider	 business.	 	
We	 will	 miss	 his	 wise	 counsel	 enormously.
UK Corporate  
Governance Code
The	 Sage	 Board	 has	 been	 heavily	 engaged	
this	 year	 in	 a	 range	 of	 very	 important	
business	 matters.	 As	 Chairman,	 I	 encourage	
an	 open	 and	 supportive	 approach	 to	 all	
Board	 discussions	 and	 challenge	 is	
encouraged	 and	 welcomed.	 Our	 Board	
reflects	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 experience	 and	
backgrounds,	 which	 I	 believe	 to	 be	 essential	
to	 the	 effective	 discharge	 of	 the	 Board's	 role	
and	 responsibilities.	
We	 work	 hard	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 Board	 has	 	
a	 full	 understanding	 of	 all	 our	 businesses	
throughout	 the	 world	 and,	 during	 the	 past	
year,	 a	 third	 of	 our	 Board	 Meetings	 were	 held	
outside	 the	 UK.	 There	 is	 regular	 evaluation	 	
of	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 its	
members	 which,	 during	 the	 next	 year,	 will	 be	
facilitated	 by	 expert	 third	 parties.	 This	 year,	 	
all	 the	 Board	 will	 be	 offering	 themselves	 for	
re-election,	 as	 recommended	 by	 the	 new	 	
UK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code.
The	 commitment	 and	 expertise	 of	 	
the	 Board	 was	 clearly	 demonstrated	 	
in	 the	 selection	 process	 for	 our	 new	 	
Chief	 Executive	 during	 the	 past	 12	 months.	
Succession	 planning	 is	 treated	 very	 seriously	
by	 the	 Board	 and	 the	 wealth	 of	 management	
talent,	 from	 which	 we	 had	 to	 select	 our	 	
Chief	 Executive	 and	 the	 new	 Executive	
Committee,	 is	 testament	 to	 the	 success	 	
of	 our preparation	 and	 processes.
Outlook
Whilst	 the	 economic	 outlook	 remains	
uncertain,	 we	 are	 seeing	 signs	 of	 improving	
markets	 for	 our	 customers,	 although	 there	 is	
variation	 by	 geography.	 These	 factors	 have	
contributed	 to	 the	 revenue	 momentum	
experienced	 in	 the	 second	 half	 of	 our	
financial	 year.
Our	 priorities	 are	 to	 improve	 organic	 	
revenue	 growth,	 particularly	 within	 our	 North	
American	 business;	 to	 continue	 to	 progress	
our	 web	 strategy;	 and	 in	 growing	 our	 margin	
in	 the	 medium	 term	 at	 the	 same	 time	 as	
investing	 in	 high	 growth	 initiatives,	 such	 as	
payment	 processing	 and	 Sage ERP X3.	
We	 have	 many	 good	 growth	 opportunities	
across	 our	 business,	 and	 we	 look	 forward	
with	 cautious	 optimism,	 whilst	 managing	 	
our	 costs	 prudently	 in	 these	 uncertain	 times.
Anthony	 Hobson
Chairman
Our customers 
continue to rely upon 
us as a trusted partner 
in helping them to run 
their business.