 02 Sareum Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.sareum.co.uk
Chairman's and Chief Executive's statement
Background
The key value creator for Sareum's shareholders continues to 
be the development and commercialisation of drug candidates from 
the Company's in-house drug development pipeline. Our research 
spend this year has been targeted on advancing our Sareum Kinase 
Inhibitor Library (SKIL) programmes. The research emphasis on 
Chk1 has focused on studies in models designed to build the 
portfolio of data provided to potential licencees.
Our plan has been to help deliver successful in-vivo efficacy 
studies through our collaboration with the Institute of Cancer Research 
and Cancer Research Technology Limited. We have also used third 
party providers of models to provide corresponding data for our 
other programmes. 
Additionally, in the period under review, three patent applications 
relating to Sareum programmes were published and a further patent 
application has been filed post period-end. These patents protect 
families of promising compounds arising from Sareum's research 
programmes, and demonstrate the strength of our intellectual 
property to prospective customers. 
The Company's business model is to concentrate primarily on its 
in-house cancer drug discovery research by outsourcing the chemistry 
and biology components of each programme. Our in-house expertise 
and experience is used to interpret the relationship between chemical 
structure and biological activity associated with each of the new 
compounds tested. The information from each study is used to assist 
in the design of new molecules which should show more activity 
and less toxicity. The synthesis and testing of new compounds is 
undertaken in a worldwide network of third-party laboratories.
A  Sareum is actively developing five drug 
discovery programmes at the present time
A  In May 2010, Sareum launched its SKIL  
technology platform
A  In April 2010, Dr Bob Jackson was 
appointed to the Scientific Advisory Board
A  The cash position at the period end was 
 0.52 million (2009:  0.27 million)
Summary of Chairman's and Chief Executive's statement
   The Company will continue to build value from its in-house research and 
development by seeking to advance its cancer drug discovery programmes
As the development programmes progress, additional data is generated 
demonstrating the quality of the candidate molecules. Simultaneously, 
an active campaign continues to draw these results to the attention of 
companies seeking to licence programmes such as these. In particular, 
the results of our research are presented at important conferences and 
seminars that focus on cancer and cancer drugs. This serves to provide 
an excellent shop window for our research as well as an opportunity 
to engage with decision makers from the major pharmaceutical 
companies that are seeking to in-licence new cancer drugs.
Progress with drug discovery programmes
The Company's principal asset is the intellectual property derived 
from its cancer drug discovery programmes. Sareum is actively 
developing five drug discovery programmes at the present time. 
The Company has continued to make positive progress with these 
programmes, resulting in the publication of three patents from 
historic filings.
Sareum's pipeline is built on the expertise of its founders in pre-clinical 
drug discovery, particularly in the field of cancer. Sareum concentrates 
its research on targeted small molecule therapeutics. 
Our strategy is to focus on developing best in class cancer therapies, 
where pre-clinical and early clinical data is available to indicate that 
disrupting the targeted biochemical process will indeed prevent tumour 
growth and prolong survival, without significant side-effects. We can 
capitalise on these published results to direct our own programmes 
and to indicate, for instance, whether or not the therapy needs to 
be administered in combination with additional cancer therapies. 
In May 2010, Sareum launched its SKIL  technology platform. 
SKIL includes a patent-protected molecular core and the intellectual 
know-how to fine-tune these molecules into inhibitors of a wide range 
of kinase enzymes. Aberrant kinase activity is associated with many 
cancer types, as well as other diseases including certain types of 
auto-immune disease and diabetes. This kinase class of enzymes 
constitutes Sareum's ongoing research efforts, primarily targeting 
kinases associated with cancer.
SKIL programme targets include Aurora kinase, VEGFR-3 kinase 
and FLT3 kinase. Recently, interesting activity has been found against 
ALK and TYK2 kinases. ALK kinase overactivity is associated with 
certain types of lung cancer and Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma 
(ALCL), a cancer of the lymphatic cells of the immune system. 
Inhibition of TYK2 kinase activity can be used to control immune 
disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and Crohn's disease. 03 Sareum Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.sareum.co.uk 
Sareum's expertise was boosted in April 2010 by the appointment 
of Dr Bob Jackson to the Scientific Advisory Board. Dr Jackson was 
formerly chief scientific officer at the cancer drug discovery company, 
Cyclacel. During his distinguished career he has led teams that have 
brought many compounds to clinical trials, including the Aurora 
kinase inhibitor, CYC116. This appointment comes at an important 
stage in the development of Sareum's Aurora kinase programme 
and Dr Jackson's expertise will be key to the development of 
the programme. 
Chk1 kinase
This is Sareum's most advanced programme and is carried out 
in conjunction with one of the world's leading cancer research 
organisations, The Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) and Cancer 
Research Technology Limited. Chk1 kinase inhibitors enhance the 
effects of DNA-damaging chemotherapeutics such as Campto  
(irinotecan) and Gemzar  (gemcitabine). During the period, Chk1 
kinase inhibitors with the potential to be delivered via the oral route 
(as opposed to injection) have been developed. This gives our 
programme advantages over competitor compounds that are in 
early clinical trials. 
In January 2010, scientists from Sareum and the ICR published 
key data in the peer reviewed journal Molecular Cancer Therapeutics. 
The article describes how the programme compound SAR-020106 
significantly enhances the anti-tumour effects of the cancer 
chemotherapeutics Campto  (irintotecan) and Gemzar  
(gemcitabine) in preclinical disease models. 
The time interval between the administration of the doses of 
DNA-damaging agent and Chk1 kinase inhibitor is an important 
factor. To better understand this, in March 2010 we entered into 
a collaboration with Physiomics plc to perform computer simulations 
of the effects of different scheduling of such drugs in living systems. 
The results obtained from this collaboration have provided valuable 
insights into the importance of appropriate scheduling of 
combination therapies.
Aurora kinase
During the period, we have been concentrating our efforts on 
developing Aurora kinase inhibitors to treat AML, a type of leukaemia. 
This is partly in response to the clinical results from competitors' 
Aurora programmes, which have shown positive responses in AML 
patients, and partly as a result of our Aurora compounds also displaying 
potent FLT3 kinase activity. FLT3 kinase is overly active in many AML 
variants and Sareum's Aurora/FLT3 inhibitors are potent against AML 
cell lines. Initial results in in-vivo studies are also positive. We are now 
seeking to optimise the properties of these compounds to allow delivery 
via the oral route whilst maintaining or improving upon the existing 
efficacy and safety profile.
VEGFR-3 (FLT4) kinase
VEGFR-3 kinase, also known as FLT4 kinase, is believed to be 
important in the formation of lymph and blood vessels in a growing 
tumour. These vessels provide nutrients, eliminate waste and provide 
a route for metastasis (cancer spread). Sareum compounds have been 
shown to inhibit the growth of lymph endothelial cells by selectively 
inhibiting VEGFR-3. 
Other SKIL programmes (ALK, TYK2)
We continually screen our SKIL compounds, e.g. from our Aurora and 
VEGFR-3 programmes, against a selection of kinase enzymes, looking 
for interesting activity against other therapeutically relevant kinases. 
Recently, we have discovered SKIL compounds with interesting activity 
against ALK kinase (implicated in certain lymphomas and lung 
cancers) and TYK2 kinase (implicated in certain auto-immune 
diseases). Currently, we are developing joint Aurora/ALK kinase 
inhibitors and approaching potential commercial partners, with 
expertise in auto-immune disease, with our TYK2 inhibitors.
Earlier-stage programmes (FLT3, FASN, PLK1, B-raf)
These programmes are currently on hold, pending a collaborative 
research deal with a pharmaceutical company partner or receipt of a 
research grant. FLT3, in addition to being a potential target for certain 
leukaemias, also has the potential to treat auto-immune diseases such 
as multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis, which further expands 
the commercial opportunities for this programme. 
Financial review
During the period, the loss after taxation decreased to 
 0.57 million (2009:  1.1 million). The cash position at the 
period end was  0.52 million (2009:  0.27 million), enhanced 
by the share placings, announced in September and October 2009 
that raised  815,000 before expenses. The Company's cash position 
was further improved by a share placing to raise  200,000 (before 
expenses) in August 2010. As a result of these placings, the Directors 
believe the Company is able to maintain its R&D spend to further 
advance its cancer drug pipeline whilst also providing sufficient 
working capital for the foreseeable future.
Outlook
The Company has an exciting opportunity to focus solely on its 
in-house cancer drug discovery programmes to generate shareholder 
value. The research work for the ongoing programmes is being provided 
via third parties, enabling the Company to operate with a minimal fixed 
cost base. 
The Company will continue to build value from its in-house research 
and development by seeking to advance its cancer drug discovery 
programmes. With sufficient cash resources to fund the ongoing 
business plan for the foreseeable future, the Company looks forward 
to further development and commercialisation of these cancer 
drug programmes. 
Dr Paul Harper
Chairman
Dr Tim Mitchell
Chief Executive Officer
21 October 2010