 08
Scottish and Southern Energy
Annual Report 2011
Chairman and Chief Executive
Questions and answers
It looks like 2010/11 was another 
challenging year for SSE. Was it?
Robert k Yes, it was a challenging year - 
but let's keep things in perspective. SSE's 
adjusted profit before tax* has continued  
to grow and passed the  1.3bn mark for the 
first time. It's now 50% higher than it was 
five years ago. A key financial question for 
the Board is whether the dividend target can 
be met while keeping dividend cover around 
the established range. Once again, it was.
Ian k We had to handle things including 
higher than forecast wholesale gas prices 
and lower than expected output of renewable 
energy, and they helped push down slightly 
operating profit in Generation and Supply. At 
the same time, our regulated energy networks 
businesses did well. That's why we have a 
balanced business model. It makes us more 
resilient, meaning we can deliver reasonable 
financial results and annual dividend growth 
even when the going is a bit tougher.
Can SSE continue to grow  
the dividend and finance  
the investment in energy 
infrastructure that will be  
needed over the next decade?
Ian k Yes. We have plans to invest between 
 1.5bn and  1.7bn a year in the period up  
to 2015. These plans are consistent with our 
financial principles and are designed to avoid 
any need to issue new equity. Forecasts  
for investment by the energy sector over the 
next decade point to some very big numbers 
indeed - but investment opportunities 
shouldn't be confused with investment 
obligations. While there are plenty of 
opportunities, it's up to us which ones we 
pursue. Discipline will be our watchword.
Robert k You have to get this the right way 
round: it's not about sacrificing dividends  
to help finance investments - we expect 
returns from investments to help finance 
dividends. We always remember that 
dividends are not some kind of abstract 
concept. Shareholders rely on them for their 
own financial well-being, and we should 
never forget that. 
A year ago, you said you were 
 confident' about SSE's ability  
to manage large capital projects. 
Has your confidence been borne 
out by events over the past year?
Robert k I believe it has. It would be wrong to 
suggest it has been plain sailing all of the way, 
but good progress is being made - both in 
terms of projects currently under construction 
and in terms of building up the resources and 
skills needed to manage the projects that will 
come into construction in the next few years.
Ian k Our capital and investment spend  
has almost trebled in just five years and  
we have had to move quickly to make sure 
we have everything needed to support it. 
We're now seeing results, with significant 
new assets being commissioned over the 
next couple of years. One of the key criteria 
for individual investment decisions, and for 
the shape of the investment programme 
overall, will always be whether we can 
manage individual projects effectively.
Does that help explain the 
number of projects you seem to 
have shelved or scaled back over 
the past year and why you turned 
your back on some acquisition 
opportunities?
Ian k Yes it does. As for acquisitions, if your 
business plan depends on them, you've got a 
problem because eventually you'll be forced 
to pay too much for something. Acquisitions 
should only ever be optional extras and 
that's what they are in SSE.
Robert k What the past year has again shown 
is the self-discipline in SSE. The Board doesn't 
believe in doing things for so-called  strategic' 
reasons, so even if potential investments or 
acquisitions appear to have some business 
logic, we won't pursue them if the financial 
returns are not there. It's as simple as that.
Do you worry that the energy 
sector is becoming more  
difficult to operate in, with more 
intervention from regulators and 
politicians, like Ofgem's energy 
In SSE, the Chairman, Lord Smith of 
Kelvin, is responsible for the operation  
of the Board, ensuring it works effectively.
The Chief Executive, Ian Marchant, is 
responsible for the management of the 
business, implementing the strategy  
and policies agreed by the Board. 
Here they answer questions about SSE's 
performance and plans for the future.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman (left) 
Ian Marchant Chief Executive (right) 09
Overview
Strategy
Group performance
Segmental performance
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Shareholder information
retail market review and the  
UK government's Electricity 
Market Reform?
Robert k I understand completely why 
regulators and politicians take a close 
interest in energy. It's essential to the  
well-being of individual people and the 
successful functioning of society as a whole. 
If regulators and politicians make decisions 
for the right reasons, and after they've given 
a fair and reasonable opportunity for people 
to express their views, you have to respect 
them and the job they do.
Ian k I agree. Political and regulatory 
interventions are a fact of energy life. There 
was some pretty lurid language used when 
Ofgem published its retail market review 
proposals in March, but you have to look 
beyond that. What matters is that the review 
results in reforms which genuinely help 
customers and the competitive market in 
general. As for Electricity Market Reform, 
it's hugely complex, but I'm optimistic we'll 
end up with a package of reforms that will 
encourage investment in the types of 
generation we'll need in the future. 
How did you feel when SSE  
was called  shameless' or  
 cold-hearted' for putting up 
household energy prices?
Ian k Of course I didn't like it, but I accept 
that criticism goes with the territory.  
It's actually in the interests of both customers 
and suppliers that prices should be more 
stable than they have been in the past few 
years. The reality is, however, that energy is 
now a global commodity for which there is 
rising global demand. It's affected by issues 
like political uncertainty in the Middle East 
or March's dreadful events in Japan. We do 
everything we can to moderate the impact  
of volatile global energy markets on our 
customers, and we'll continue to do that,  
but there is only so much upward pressure 
on energy prices that a supply business can 
withstand. The positive news is that all the 
energy efficiency investment that's been 
made over the past few years is starting to 
bring down people's energy consumption. 
This means they're paying less for their 
energy than they otherwise would. 
Robert k It's easy to attach negative labels 
to big companies, but one of the things that 
impresses me about SSE is the day-to-day 
work of the customer service teams who are 
dedicated to helping vulnerable customers 
and other people whose circumstances 
mean they might be struggling to pay for 
their electricity and gas. The people in  
those teams are first class - professional, 
committed and caring.
SSE's financial objective, strategy 
and business model are very 
familiar to people who have been 
following the Company over the 
years. Do you ever worry that SSE 
could become too set in its ways 
and unable to cope with the pace 
of change in the energy sector?
Robert k The SSE fundamentals have 
remained the same, particularly the 
commitment to real dividend growth,  
and I'm glad they have. That doesn't mean 
it's operating in some kind of time warp.  
The Company is actually very innovative  
and forward-looking and, on key issues like 
decarbonisation and reducing dependency  
on fossil fuels, really  gets it'. It's the SSE 
way, however, just to get on with delivering 
things and not make a song and dance 
about them.
Ian k Sticking to the fundamentals is 
important. That said, performance has  
to be improved constantly if a business  
is to survive in the long term. That's why 
innovation has become a big thing in SSE. 
It's part of our Excellence value and it's 
innovation with a purpose - to deliver 
business improvements for the long term. 
We know that  long term' means a very 
different energy sector from the one we 
operate in now, and we're building towards  
it all the time.
How significant are the  
changes in Executive Directors' 
responsibilities and the formation 
of a new Management Board?
Robert k Colin Hood is retiring later this 
year after an outstanding career in the 
energy sector, culminating in nine years' 
excellent service as SSE's Chief Operating 
Officer . Main Board-level responsibilities will 
be divided between Ian, Gregor Alexander 
and Alistair Phillips-Davies. They are 
supported by the new Management Board 
and by other senior executives throughout 
the business. SSE has a very able and 
experienced management team and there  
is terrific strength in depth, that extends 
through the whole team of employees,  
who do an excellent job.
Ian k I agree with Robert about the strength 
of the team. The people in it are constantly 
being challenged and developed to make 
sure SSE will continue to be successful as 
the sector changes over the next few years.
Is SSE sticking with its approach 
of not publishing a separate 
Corporate Responsibility Report?
Ian k Yes. A year ago we took the view that 
the content of the Annual Report should 
enable people to judge whether SSE is a 
responsible company, and we still believe 
that. A business should be designed so  
that everyone is expected to do their job  
in a responsible way. To put it another  
way, it's not about managing corporate 
responsibility, but about managing your 
corporation responsibly. That's our goal in 
SSE, and we maintain a set of core values - 
like Safety and Service - against which the 
management team, me included, is judged 
every year.
Robert k First on the list of those values  
is safety. It's the first item on the agenda for 
Board meetings, and the most important one.
What are SSE's top priorities  
in 2011/12?
Ian k I can refer to the answer I gave to a 
similar question in the Annual Report last 
year, because it's the same: safe working; 
excellent customer service; well-run power 
stations and energy networks; good 
progress on major capital investment 
projects; and cost efficiency.
Robert k Continuity and consistency are 
really important. As a long-term business, 
SSE should have long-term priorities that 
transcend any one year, and that's exactly 
what we have. 