 60
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013
Directors' Report
Chairman's Letter
Dear Shareholder
At Serco, we are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics in all our activities around the world. 
Governance is not an exercise in compliance nor is it a specific form of management. For Serco, our framework of governance is how we ensure the 
best interests of all our stakeholders - our customers, our employees, our shareholders, and the societies and communities of which we are a part - 
are uppermost in all our minds as we go about our business, and that where these interests are not directly aligned, we make decisions on the basis 
of what is right: this is an essential part of our public service ethos. During 2013, we found ourselves challenged at the heart of the way in which we 
do business. A number of individuals were found to be acting outside our values as epitomised by our Governing Principles and our framework of 
governance had not identified sufficiently clearly the root causes that had allowed this to happen. This challenged the trust in which we are held by  
our customers, our employees, and society at large. In response, the Company has designed and implemented a comprehensive programme  
of corporate renewal to ensure we respond appropriately to these root causes and put in place the actions, systems and processes to deliver stronger, 
more effective governance, organisational change and operational resilience across the Group. 
In the following pages, we describe what we are doing in this programme of corporate renewal, and outline the work of the Board and the governance 
framework we have designed to meet the current needs of our businesses around the world. We also explain how we have applied the Main Principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code in the financial year. To illustrate how our governance arrangements work in practice, we have redesigned this 
Corporate Governance Report around the key elements of the Board's role: leadership, effectiveness, accountability and engaging with shareholders. 
Board focus
 In my Chairman's Statement I speak about the independent reviews of our culture and systems that we commissioned last year to understand the root 
causes of the issues that had arisen. It was these reviews that informed the design of our programme of corporate renewal, the key components of which 
are as follows:
      Commitment by our leadership throughout the business to  do what is right' by always dealing with customers fairly and placing this above any other 
conflicting drivers for success
      Revising Serco's Code of Conduct, Values Statement and Governing Principles, backed up by training, induction and performance management
      Strengthening contract level governance, including improved contract bid processes to ensure appropriate levels of operational resource and the 
delivery of sustainable performance
      Enhancing transparency and access, with robust reporting of operational and financial contract KPIs, and greater engagement of customers  
at contract and departmental level 
      Creating a separate division for our UK Central Government work to achieve both focus and openness for Government as a collective customer
      Developing our management system to include more prescriptive guidance on required operational processes and procedures, supported by 
strengthened risk management and internal audit processes and capabilities 
      Appointing three additional Board Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will chair a new Corporate Responsibility Committee to formalise the process 
of guidance and decision making on ethical issues - more detail of this new Committee can be found on page 81 
      Establishing formal Ethics Committees and Ethics Officers in each division, accompanied by the redesign of our whistle-blowing process to the highest 
international standards, and 
      Measuring the progress of attitudinal change throughout the organisation with ongoing independent culture and ethics reviews.
Our Board established a Committee of the Board (the Board Oversight Committee) to oversee the programme. The various reviews and audits undertaken 
by the UK Government were completed during the year and found no further evidence of wrongdoing or malpractice. Lord Gold was appointed as an 
independent third-party member of this Committee. The full and effective implementation of this programme is fundamental to our future success as a 
company that seeks to work in partnership with its customers around the world delivering services to taxpayers. It is management's top priority, something 
that will be appropriately reflected in the structure of management incentivisation. I am pleased to say that to date they are on plan to achieve their various 
milestones and that the plan to implement this programme has received a positive assessment by the Government Oversight Group, with the input of 
the independent advisers appointed by the UK Government who will continue to monitor the Company's implementation against the agreed milestones. 
Going forward, through leadership, training and guidance, and appropriate incentivisation, we will change the balance of drivers within our business 
such that the commitment to do what is right and to deal with our customers fairly and transparently always transcends that sustained drive to succeed. 
This will be supported by the right management structures and controls and best-in-class lines of assurance to ensure that through early identification  
of risks and issues and their swift resolution we never again compromise on our values and ethics.
In summary, this plan seeks to ensure that never again does someone amongst our 120,000 people do the wrong thing because they do not want  
to fail to meet their commercial objectives. And if they do the wrong thing, we will have the controls in place to make sure the problem is identified  
at an early stage, acted on, and the lessons learned. 
Despite the exceptional events of last year that required my and my colleagues' absolute focus and that dominated our agenda for the second half  
of 2013, the Board has continued its programme of meeting local management with the Board conducting some of its meetings at operational sites.  
A number of Board members also undertook tours of international sites to deepen Non-Executive Directors' understanding of the day to day activities  
of the business.
Corporate Governance Report  61
Directors' Report
Board skills and diversity
After 10 years service, David Richardson stood down from the Board at the Company's Annual General Meeting held on 15 May 2013. We are grateful to 
David for his contribution to the Company as both Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Malcolm Wyman, who joined the 
Board in January 2013, succeeded David in these roles. Malcolm's significant financial and international business experience makes him well placed to 
make a strong contribution. 
In last year's report, I outlined our approach to Board diversity, with particular reference to the Lord Davies of Abersoch's report  Women on Boards,' and 
emphasised our commitment to boardroom diversity, of which gender is one of several aspects. We also stated an aim to achieve appropriate diversity 
across all elements of Serco's management. I am delighted that since I last wrote to you, in addition to Malcolm, we have secured the services of three 
new Non-Executive Directors, who bring a broad range of skills and experience to complement our current Board, and of whom two are female. Each has 
a great track-record in their particular field of expertise and will add much to the debate around our board table. More information on all members of the 
Board can be found on pages 62 to 64. 
With these appointments, a third of the Board is female but these are all non-executive members. I believe there is an increasing recognition that the real 
issue is not Board composition but the balance of women in senior executive positions. It is this that will provide the opportunity for talented women to 
become directors, both executive and non-executive, and it is here that, in my view, we should be focusing. Within Serco we are, therefore, maintaining our 
focus on diversity across our management team. At present, 12.5% of our senior managers are female and we will be seeking to increase this over time.
Leadership and effectiveness
As you can see from the above there was considerable change during 2013 to our company and our Board. With the appointments announced  
today around half our directors will be new during 2014. Given this extent of change during, and the exceptional events of last year which in turn  
caused Board activity that was abnormal both in quantum and nature, I decided that it would not be constructive to undertake our normal annual internal 
review of Board effectiveness. I have mentioned above the reviews that we undertook during 2013 into our culture and systems of control. These extended 
to the Board and the Board discussed their findings which in turn has resulted in changes to our governance framework, including our Board composition. 
Alastair Lyons CBE
Chairman
Compliance statement
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2013, Serco Group plc complied fully with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
with the exception of membership of the Audit Committee as explained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 75 to 79 and undertaking a formal internal review of 
the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual members in accordance with Code B.6.1. The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council's  
website at frc.org.uk.