 Job: 13246Z-- Date: 08-04-05 Area: A1 Operator: PH Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 0627 TCP No. 7 Time: 10:15 Rev: 0 Gal: 0002
2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Introduction
2004 has been a year of transition for the Company. The Company has moved from being a software provider to a provider of
computer services. The Company now operates two core businesses units being the Field Service Solutions Business (FSS ),
which operates despatch, repair and warranty claim services to major retailers and manufacturers and the SERVICEPower
Software Business which sells software directly into the automated scheduling applications market.
In line with the shift to a service business model, the Company raised  5.9 million of new cash to invest in the FSS computer
services business. Further to this, the Company acquired the key assets of Keyprestige Inc, a US based service and electronic
warranty claim company. Through these actions, the Directors believe the Company has the opportunity to be the leading
provider of services to manage the delivery, repair and warranty claim processes of retailers and manufacturers of consumer
electrical goods and white goods in both the US and Europe. The rapid acceptance of our FSS suite of service products in the
US and now more recently in Europe, as described below, supports this view.
Results and Dividend
The revenue for 2004 was  4.1 million, an increase of 56 per cent. on 2003 (2003:  2.6 million), of which  2.1 million was
contributed by FSS during less than 9 months trading. I am particularly pleased that the contracted monthly recurring revenue
has grown from  86k per month at the start of 2004 to over  380k now and the Company has  5.3 million total committed
revenue for 2005, subject to current volumes continuing into the future. This is 29 per cent. more than our total 2004 revenue
and is particularly encouraging as several recently signed contracts have yet to reach their full monthly revenue capability. The
Directors expect the recurring revenue from existing customers to continue to increase during 2005 providing substantial
growth alongside further revenue from new customers wins.
The loss before and after taxation was  3.9 million (2003: loss of  1.6 million). The gross margin of the software business fell
from 58 per cent. to 45 per cent. due to the reduced software licence revenue while the FSS gross margin was 23 per cent.
which was in line with the Directors' expectations. The low margins delivered by FSS in its first year of operation are due to a
number of processes initially being handled manually. As the Company begins to use its own software applications in the
business and manual handling is reduced the gross margins will begin to rise in 2005.
The administrative expenses are  5.3 million,  2.1 million more than in 2003 reflecting the investment in sales and marketing in
the FSS business. During 2004 the average number of full time employees rose from 48 to 77 and the total staff based in the US
increased by 28. The development and support of the FSS application has been outsourced to TCS Inc, one of the largest
outsourcing and system integration companies in the world. The strategy of partnering to achieve rapid IT development is
expected to continue and expand.
The loss per share for the period was 5.50p (2003: loss per share of 2.67p). The Directors do not recommend the payment
of a dividend.
The cash position at the end of 2004 was  2.8 million, plus a  250k capital bond. Job: 13246Z-- Date: 08-04-05 Area: A1 Operator: DD Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 0628 TCP No. 7 Time: 10:15 Rev: 0 Gal: 0003
3
Field Service Solutions Business
This year the company acquired software and intellectual property rights from Keyprestige Inc, set up new offices in Kentucky,
California and the UK. The FSS business operates despatch, repair and warranty claim services to major retailers and
manufacturers. From a standing start the FSS business delivered  2.1 million revenue in 2004 and currently has over  3.6 million
contracted recurring revenue for 2005. Recurring revenue for FSS has grown from zero to over  300k per month.
The Directors have identified two different FSS business models. Firstly, our client may use FSS hosted software to process their
own service jobs and for which the Company receives a transaction fee. Future gross margins will be in line with our software
business, at approximately 65 per cent. as the marginal costs of processing additional transactions through the system are very
low. The second model uses FSS infrastructure to deliver a total outsourced service to our client. In this model the margins are
relatively low, at approximately 10 per cent. but the potential for revenue growth is significant. In both models the inclusion of
our SERVICEPower software application gives the Company competitive advantage and creates a significant barrier to entry. In
getting the balance right between the two models, FSS has the capacity to deliver significant profitable revenue growth.
In addition to re-signing all 23 former Keyprestige US clients including Phillips, Denon, Hitachi, JVC; new contracts have been
won with prestigious companies such as GE Industrial and Consumer, Whirlpool, Westinghouse, Daewoo amongst others.
Other than GE, each contract alone is not significant, but taken together these contracts underpin profitable recurring revenue
in excess of  2.6 million per year in the US. Shareholders will recall the Company announced in April 2004 a contract with US
Digital Television Inc to provide installation services for USDTV digital television set-top boxes. Following early positive growth,
the USDTV rollout stalled due to a delay obtaining secondary funding. USDTV has informed the Directors that it expects to
secure significant new funding shortly. This should allow USDTV to settle their existing debts and the roll out will resume leading
to a positive revenue effect for the Company.
I am pleased to report the funded pilot with a Fortune 100 US retailer began in January at 22 stores in Portland. It has been
favourably received and is already delivering significant productivity gains as it utilises the SERVICEPower software in the FSS
application. The pilot will run for at least 3 months before our client takes the decision to rollout, but it is encouraging to report
approval has been given to extend the pilot to a second city. FSS in the US has recently begun two pilots with major brand-name
manufacturers of consumer electronics products. The Company is currently on the short-list in several outsourcing
procurements by major organisations which gives the Directors great confidence in the further growth potential of this new
business.
The Company recently announced the launch of FSS into Europe using the hosted and total service models developed in the US.
We have signed 4 new contracts and started one pilot in the first few weeks of operation which the directors expect to deliver
 1.0 million revenue in 2005. It is particularly pleasing to have recently been appointed the UK Service Partner by Elesco Ltd, an
association of European-wide independent service companies. Our clients say they want to place business with someone that
can handle service jobs on a pan-European basis. This arrangement allows FSS Europe to win UK based European contracts and
to have business referred to FSS by our European partners on an exclusive basis. Three of our new contracts have come from
Elesco partners and the Directors expect this arrangement will deliver many more.
SERVICEPower Software Business
The software business revenue fell 23 per cent. to  2.0 million in 2004 (2003  2.6 million). The trading conditions remain
difficult with decisions for capital expenditure often being delayed. This has contributed to the software business's loss of
 2.5 million. The Directors have firm plans to move the software business to at least a cash neutral basis for 2005 and being on
the shortlist in several procurements the Directors have confidence that the plans are achievable. Job: 13246Z-- Date: 08-04-05 Area: A1 Operator: MR Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 0629 TCP No. 7 Time: 10:15 Rev: 0 Gal: 0004
4
In 2004 another of our pilot projects was successfully converted into an enterprise license within one of the largest insurance
companies in the US and we have a second pilot currently running with a Fortune 100 company that the Directors expect will
be converted into an enterprise license in 2005.
The Directors recognise the unpredictability of the revenue stream can be addressed by increasing the volume of contracts
through the use of resellers and partners. To this end the Company has signed distributor agreements with Pinnacle, Solarvista
and Cognito in the UK, and implementation consultancy agreement with BearingPoint and Bat-Mann in the US. We have also set
up ServicePower AG to sell to German-speaking countries in Europe, following our SAP certification of our integration to their
R3 product. Our Dutch partner, Square continues to rollout out a pan-European solution for an international office equipment
company, with Benelux and Italy now live.
The software business has  1.7 million contracted revenue for 2005 from software licences, implementation consultancy and
ongoing maintenance contracts.
Outlook
We start 2005 with contracted revenue 29 per cent. higher than the total revenue for 2004. This is a measure of the success in
closing new FSS contracts in 2004 that deliver future recurring revenue. The Directors expect the monthly recurring revenue to
continue to increase during 2005 as more transactions are processed for our existing clients. In addition I expect the Company
to convert some of the FSS pilots into incremental revenue and as these are with Fortune 100 companies, the volume of
transactions could be significant. As a consequence the Directors expect the FSS business to trade profitably and be cash positive
as it moves into its second year. The Company is well placed to win several enterprise software licences and the Directors are
determined the software business should be at least at break-even point in 2005 and the Board is confident for the future of the
business.
Barry Welck
Chairman
24 March 2005