  
2 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer Report 
For the year ended 30 September 2010 
 
 
Introduction 
For the year ended 30 September 2010, we are pleased to report a level of profitability just below 
the year ended 30 September 2009, despite difficult trading conditions. 
 
As cautioned in our Interim Statement for the six months ended 31 March 2010, the uncertainty 
and pressures regarding public sector spending have continued to impact on the business in the 
second half. At the half year we reported a reduction in revenue from our Education Recruitment 
activities and this has become a full year reduction of over  5m. The second half has also seen 
deterioration in trading conditions in our Healthcare Recruitment businesses though the impact 
has been felt more in some areas than others. On a like for like basis (excluding businesses 
closed during year ended 30 September 2009) our Healthcare revenues are marginally higher 
when compared to last year but this does not reflect the current run rates. 
 
A brighter note has been struck in the corporate security company within our Security operations 
where we have seen an improved trading environment in a business largely focussed on the 
private sector. Action taken towards the end of last year ensured the security business entered the 
year positioned for improved profitability. We are pleased to report that this helped deliver a 
healthy increase in revenue, gross margin and net profit. We have also achieved growth in our 
Domiciliary Care business which bodes well for further development. 
 
In light of the challenging trading conditions in our public sector recruitment activities we have 
continued to drive down the Group's overheads, which have reduced by  2.5m compared to the 
previous year. 
 
 
Financial Review 
For the year ended 30 September 2010, Group revenue was  50.2 million compared with  57.6 
million (2009), a reduction of 12.8%. Gross profit for the year was  14.0 million against  16.8 
million (2009), a reduction of 16.7%.  
 
 
Operating profit for the year was  2.1 million (before share based payment and amortisation of 
intangibles of  0.6 million) compared with an operating profit in the prior year of  2.6 million 
(before share based payment charges and amortisation of intangibles of  0.3 million). 
 
Profit before taxation (excluding share based payment charges) was  2.0 million compared to  2.2 
million (2009). 
 
The basic earnings per share for the year were 1.69p compared with 2.5p (2009).  
 
Net debt reduced from  3.4 million at September 2009 to  3.0 million at September 2010. 
 
Cash generated from operations in the year was  2.4 million (2009:  3.2 million). 
 
Acquisition 
On 14 August 2010 the Company acquired, as a going concern, the business, trade and assets of 
Phoenix Employment Services Limited (Phoenix ) from the administrators. The total consideration 
paid was  0.96m in cash of which  0.77m was for the net assets and  0.19m for goodwill.  
 
Full details of this transaction are disclosed in note 24 to the financial statements. 
   
3 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2010 
 
 
Operational highlights 
 
Strategy and delivery 
The management team remains focussed on profit delivery within its existing operations. Mindful 
however of the challenging trading conditions in our public sector recruitment businesses, the 
Group is committed to the development of its outsourcing activities in the short to medium term.  
 
 
Healthcare Recruitment 
 
Our Healthcare Recruitment business operates through a number of discrete brands and supply is 
focused on doctors, nurses, care workers and allied health professionals. 
 
The core of our Healthcare Recruitment revenue is concentrated in two discreet areas; Doctors 
and Nursing and Care workers. Both areas faced challenging trading conditions, notably in the 
second half, but with differing impacts on their results. In our Nursing and Care operations the 
momentum built in the first half helped overcome the reduced demand in the second half, although 
growth therefore became difficult towards the end of the year, revenue, gross margin and net 
contribution towards central costs were all up in the second half over the first half. These 
businesses enter financial year 2011 with an improved year on year run rate. 
 
The amount of nursing hours we were able to provide was helped by our decision to position our 
supply entirely through the NHS supply framework, PASA, at the start of the year. This helped the 
business survive a period of reduced demand relative to previous years. Profitability and growth 
were aided by an increased level of supply into the private sector, where margin and demand were 
stronger than in the NHS. This supply was aided by our increased candidate flow as a 
consequence of our framework status. 
 
In our doctors supply business the impact of the trading conditions on their second half results was 
more significant. Despite increasing annual revenue by  500k over the previous year and 
maintaining a similar level of profitability, the run rate was reduced substantially as we approached 
the year end. This was particularly so after the August period, which sees the NHS recruit its 
largest intake of newly qualified doctors on a permanent basis. This led to a 15% reduction in 
revenue in H2 compared to H1 and means that the doctors business enters financial year 2011 
with a substantially reduced run rate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
4 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2010 
 
 
Education Recruitment 
 
Our Education Recruitment business operates through three brands, Academics, Day to Day 
Teachers and Dream Education.  
 
Academics operate as an education recruitment and training provider which supplies education 
professionals on a contract or permanent basis to clients in London and the Home Counties. 
Academics were a major contributor to the Group's profitability during the financial year 2009 and 
were expected to deliver a similar level of contribution in the financial year 2010. However, as 
cautioned in our Interim Statement, trading conditions have continued to prove difficult and this 
has had the expected impact on the full year result. The second half saw both contract and 
permanent revenues fall well short of internal expectations and consequently the full year result 
was substantially lower than last year. Despite this fall from 2009, it is anticipated that there 
remains growth in this market in the short term. 
  
Dream Education provides long-term teaching professionals to schools across the UK, mostly 
within secondary schools. The business entered the financial year under new management and 
with a mandate to develop a new operating model. The historic provision of exclusively overseas 
candidates was no longer viable as changes to work permit regulations and the increased 
availability of UK trained teaching professionals had severely affected both supply and demand for 
this type of resource. The business has made steady progress in becoming a quality supplier of 
UK trained teaching professionals but was also affected by the difficult trading climate. The result 
was that profitability was also substantially reduced. 
 
Day to Day Teachers provides supply teachers and classroom assistants to cover short-term 
periods of absence within schools. This business proved more resilient over the period with net 
contribution fractionally up on the prior year. Improved operational management and action taken 
to close unprofitable branches in financial year 08/09 helped deliver this performance. 
 
As we enter the new financial year we have consolidated the business of Dream Education and 
Day to Day Teachers to create a new brand, Servoca Education Resourcing, under the new 
management appointed earlier in the year ended 30 September 2010. 
 
 
Secure Solutions 
 
Our Security Division - Secure Solutions - incorporates two main business areas; corporate 
security services and criminal justice operations. Our corporate security offering comprises 
manned guarding, systems services and a corporate investigations unit that engages in a variety 
of sensitive and highly specialist activities. Our criminal justice operation provides resourcing and 
outsourcing services to a majority of police constabularies throughout the UK. This area also 
provides investigative skills and services to a range of local and central government authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
5 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2010 
 
 
 Secure Solutions (continued): 
 
We are pleased to report that in our corporate security business, within our Security operations, 
the progress reported in our Interim statement continued into the second half of the year. This 
resulted in a substantial improvement in its financial performance for the full year with revenue, 
gross margin and net contribution all ahead of the prior year. 
 
The Criminal Justice operation was exposed to more difficult trading conditions in the second half 
of the year and this curtailed internal growth expectations over that period. Again, as this area is 
under pressure from public sector finances, conditions were challenging.  
 
Board changes 
 
Miles Davis resigned as a Director with effect from 11 February 2010 and we thank him for his 
valuable contribution to the Group.   
 
Summary and prospects  
 
Outlook 
 
Although all our public sector recruitment businesses are facing a challenging trading environment 
during 2011, we expect some areas to be impacted more than others. As a consequence we still 
expect improved profitability in some areas of supply to offset reduced levels of profitability in 
others. 
 
Mindful of the current trading conditions in our public sector recruitment businesses, the Group is 
committed to the development of its outsourcing activities in the short-medium term. The Group 
believes that both its Security and Domiciliary Care businesses hold good growth potential and our 
recent acquisition of Phoenix in the latter area gives the Group a much enlarged presence in this 
market. We are pleased to report that this acquisition has bedded in very well and is trading ahead 
of expectations. New management has been appointed to take our Security business forward and 
the Group is committed to investment in this area for the year ahead to substantially improve our 
service offering in this market and grow our profitability. 
 
 
 
Bob Morton       Andrew Church 
Chairman       Chief Executive Officer 
26 January 2011      26 January 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 