  
2 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman / Chief Executive Officer Report 
For the year ended 30 September 2008 
 
 
Introduction 
The year ended 30 September 2008 is the first full reporting period of Servoca Plc (the Group ) 
following the change of the accounting period.  
 
During the year the Group has made strategic acquisitions in the Security and Education markets. 
Note 24 to the Annual Report provide further information on these acquisitions. 
 
There were several start up initiatives during the year.  Some of these have not lived up to 
expectations and we have terminated all loss making businesses as part of the Group's restructuring 
programme.  This included the revision of the Group's management structure and streamlining of the 
operational management, simplification of the Group's corporate structure, the continued 
rationalisation of the front and back office systems and a reduction of operational and administrative 
staff and general overheads. The restructuring also necessitated the placing of two of its subsidiaries 
into administration post year end. 
 
As explained in note 1, the Group is raising  5 million via a placing to finance working capital and 
deferred consideration.   
 
Financial review 
During the year ended 30 September 2008, Group revenue was  42.1 million, which produced a 
gross profit of  12.7 million. Comparison with previous periods is not considered meaningful given the 
reverse acquisition that took place in 2007 and the various acquisitions that have taken place in the 
business during this year. 
 
In April 2008, the Company raised  1.9 million, before expenses, through a placing of 6,333,340 
ordinary shares of 10p each at a price of 30p per share. The Balance sheet as at 30 September 2008 
includes  2.65 million of share based deferred consideration under current liabilities.   
 
On 7 November 2007 the Company obtained Court approval for a capital reduction by way of 
cancellation of the balance of  8.81 million on the share premium account and  6.04 million on the 
capital redemption reserve.   
 
The operating loss, prior to the goodwill impairment charge of  3.1 million, was  3.6 million for the 
year after charging exceptional restructuring costs of  1.6 million.  
 
Acquisitions 
As detailed below, the Company has made a number of acquisitions in the year.  Further details are 
given in note 24 to the Annual Report. 
 
 
Operational highlights 
 
Strategy and delivery 
Following a number of acquisitions made by the Group, our strategy is to concentrate on organic 
growth in our existing three principal markets of Education, Healthcare, and Secure Solutions. 
 
   
3 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman / Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2008 
 
 
Strategy and delivery (continued) 
 
Resourcing  
Healthcare : 
Within Healthcare we have combined three brands ( Windsor, Berry and Dream Medical ) under a 
new banner - Servoca Nursing and Care.  This Company together with our existing brands TLP, 
Firstpoint and Triple West  supplies a broad spectrum of skills providing allied health professionals, 
doctors, nurses, domiciliary care, social workers and other associated specialisations. We are now 
able to offer a complete service by having the ability to cover all major staffing disciplines within this 
sector. Servoca is one of only a handful of organisations who offer a one stop shop, and one of even 
fewer such organisations able to offer a national branch network attracting highly skilled healthcare 
professionals throughout the country. Servoca Healthcare is now in a position to bid for lucrative, long 
term, regional and national contracts which will help the Group to underpin plans to increase our 
visibility of earnings and recurring revenue streams within Healthcare.  During the year this division 
secured major contracts in South Yorkshire and the West Midlands. 
 
The Healthcare sector demands an up-to-date and complex skill set and we therefore invest heavily in 
providing training for new and existing staff. Servoca Healthcare now provides large scale training 
courses for the NHS, private care homes, local authorities and many other business types involved in 
the health arena. 
 
Education : 
 
We have three brands within our Education division and our strategy will be to continue to grow our 
market presence both in the UK and abroad.  
 
Dream Education provides long term qualified teachers mostly within secondary schools.     
 
Academics was acquired in March 2008 for an initial consideration of  3.1 million and an earn out of 
up to  5.8 million.    Academics operates as an Education recruitment and training provider which 
supplies qualified teachers on a contract or permanent basis to clients in London and the Home 
Counties. 
 
In May 2008, the Company acquired the business trade and assets of a business trading as Day to 
Day Teachers Limited from the administrators .The Company paid a cash consideration of  0.38 
million.  Day to Day Teachers operates from two branches and supplies qualified teachers and 
classroom assistants on a supply or temporary basis.  
 
 
These acquisitions will enhance the Education resourcing division by enabling us to provide a wider 
service offering to our expanding client base.  Opportunities exist for us to develop the Home 
Counties market and roll out the proven Academics model nationally.  Academics also has a 
resourcing office in Melbourne which will allow international expansion from the existing infrastructure.   
 
 
 
   
4 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman / Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2008 
 
 
Strategy and delivery (continued) 
 
Servoca Secure Solutions 
Our Security Division  - Servoca Secure Solutions (SSS ), -  includes our acquisitions within security 
and our Criminal Justice Operation where both now enjoy significant cross-selling opportunities. 
 
We have enjoyed particular success in the areas of criminal justice training, crime training, the 
outsourcing of cold case reviews, business process outsourcing and the provision of highly 
experienced teams into sensitive areas. 
 
To strengthen our Security offering, in December 2007 we acquired both International Security & 
Surveillance Limited (ISS) and ISS Special Projects Limited (ISS (SP)) for an aggregate 
consideration of approximately  2.85 million which was paid in a combination of cash and ordinary 
shares.  These two businesses have been combined under the Servoca Secure Solutions brand. This 
division continues to provide manned guarding, systems services, corporate investigations including 
close protection, risk management and surveillance. 
 
The newly enlarged division is now able to offer a wide breadth of important and highly valued 
services to a variety of clients whose needs are often of a sensitive and high-profile nature. SSS 
provides confidential services to the majority of Police Constabularies throughout the UK . SSS is the 
only organisation of its type to have gained the Skills for Justice Accreditation  for all of our policing 
training products. Over the past year SSS has run a number of specialist policing conferences and 
special interest days, further cementing our strategic relationship with the UK Police Service. 
 
It is our intention to develop SSS into a unique specialist brand able to offer the full spectrum of 
security services.  We are building this division to become a significant provider of high end specialist 
Security services. 
 
Board changes 
Glenn Swaby became the new Chief Financial Officer on 28 March 2008 when Andrew Brundle 
stepped down. 
 
Tony Rogers resigned as a Director with effect from 3  October 2008.   
 
Darren Browne resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 3 November 2008.   
 
Andrew Church was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 24 November 2008.   
 
Emma Sugarman , founder and Managing Director of Academics Limited, was appointed to the Board 
on 16 December 2008. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
5 
SERVOCA Plc 
Chairman / Chief Executive Officer Report (continued) 
For the year ended 30 September 2008 
 
 
Summary and prospects  
The 2008 results showed good underlying growth marred by several one off costs and loss making 
businesses which have now been closed.  The cost base has been realigned and the restructuring 
completed.  This has transformed the performance of the Group and each division of the Group is 
now delivering profits.   
 
The Group will continue to serve many areas of public sector recruitment that suffer from manpower 
supply shortages.  The underlying growth in public sector recruitment remains strong and there will be 
a greater focus on profit delivery by the new management team. 
 
We have new additions to the Board and Servoca has a strong platform on which to build and deliver 
shareholder value and realise its full potential. 
 
 
 
 
Bob Morton       Andrew Church 
Chairman       Chief Executive Officer 
6 March 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 