 06
Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
  
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
The Group performed 
very well in 2007 with 
all of our core businesses
contributing to record results.
PETER LEVINE
Peter Levine
CHAIRMAN
Highlights Group Overview Chairman's Statement Operational Review 07
Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
 
BIRMINGHAM HOSPITAL
Birmingham's new 1,200 bed super
hospital is being built on the 50 acre
site of the old Queen Elizabeth
Hospital in Edgbaston and will become
part of the largest healthcare facility
in the UK outside of London.
Covering some 170,000 sqm, the
hospital comprises more than 10,000
tonnes of structural steelwork,
including approximately 700 tonnes 
of Fabsec plated beams.
 
Severfield-Reeve
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts 08
Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman's Statement
Introduction   Another Great Year
On behalf of the Board I am delighted to report that the Group
performed extremely well in 2007 with all of our core businesses
yet again delivering record productivity and customer service, and
producing record results.
In spite of the challenging global financial market conditions
towards the end of the year, the financial strength of
Severfield-Rowen combined with increasing demand for the
Group's differentiated services underline our confidence in the
Group's long-term growth prospects.
Overview   Further Growth
In 2007 underlying operating profit (before amortisation of
acquired intangible assets of  2.2 million and the movement in
valuation of derivative financial instruments of  2.39 million)
increased by 46.6% to a record  42.68 million (2006:  29.12
million) on increased revenue of  300.7 million (2006:  295.1
million). The underlying operating margin increased to 14.2%
(2006: 9.9%). These impressive results were largely due to our
quality service level, underpinned by a focus on prime projects. 
All of our core businesses performed strongly with a focus on high-
margin, prime projects. Accordingly, underlying profit before tax
was 41.8% higher at  42.9 million (2006:  30.3 million) producing
a 39.4% increase in underlying basic earnings per share of 35.74p
(2006: 25.64p). The underlying profit before tax margin increased
to 14.3% (2006: 10.3%).
Retained profit after tax was  26.4 million (2006:  20.9 million).
The Group's net assets increased to  116.8 million (2006:  66.2
million). Following the funding of the Fisher Engineering acquisition
and the purchase of the Dalton Property, we ended the year with
net borrowings of  48.1 million (2006: net funds  38.2 million).
We increased our leading position in the structural steel industry
and are involved in many significant projects and developments.
We are particularly pleased that all of the Company's core
subsidiaries in 2007, namely Severfield-Reeve Structures, Watson
Steel Structures, Atlas Ward Structures, Rowen Structures, Fisher
Engineering and Steelcraft Erection Services, contributed to our
record results.
Heathrow Terminal 5
Notable among our recent completed projects was Heathrow
Airport's new Terminal 5, which has received worldwide acclaim
not only for its impressive visual impact, but more fundamentally
for the completion of its construction on time and on budget. The
Group should be extremely proud of this achievement.
Dividend   Improved Returns
With the record results announced today and in view of the
strength of our financial position, the directors are pleased to
announce a 40.4% increase in the full dividend for the year to
20.0p per share which is covered 1.8 times by underlying earnings.
The final dividend is 13.25p per share (2006: 9.25p) payable on
the 16 June 2008 to shareholders on the register on 16 May 2008.
Fisher Engineering
The acquisition of Fisher Engineering was completed in October
2007 at a total cost of  92.2 million of which  36.6 million was
paid in shares and the balance in cash. 
Based in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, the company has an
established track record as a very successful and profitable
fabricator in both the province and Eire and its incorporation into
the Group has been speedy and effective. We look forward to
Fishers making a significant contribution to the Group in 2008 
and beyond.
At the time of purchase, Ian Cochrane, the Managing Director of
Fishers, joined our main Board. A planned upgrade investment 
of some  2.5 million was completed in 2007, prior to the
acquisition, and is now providing the strategic productivity
improvements envisaged. 
Dalton Airfield Estate 
During the same period as the Fisher acquisition, the Group
acquired the freehold reversion of Dalton, the Group's
headquarters, from certain directors and management for the sum
of  23.5 million. The acquisition has a positive effect and means
Severfield regains control of this valuable extensive headquarters
and fabrication site thereby giving it both the flexibility in further
development and an increased asset base.
Board Changes
Chairmanship
With effect from the close of the Company's AGM on 30 May
2008 I will step down both as Chairman and Main Board director
of Severfield-Rowen.
Having been first Deputy Chairman for a numbers of years, then
Chairman for the last ten years, it is time to pass on the baton. In
all those years it has been an honour to be part of the team that
has made Severfield the pre-eminent force in our industry. It has
furthermore been a privilege to work alongside first the creator of
the modern Severfield, John Severs, and latterly the team that I
have no doubt will take it forward to further prosperity and success,
namely Tom Haughey, Peter Emerson, and their management
colleagues. Shareholders should have every confidence that the
future of Severfield is in good hands and I express sincere thanks
to all my colleagues and our employees for their friendship and
support to me over many years.
Highlights Group Overview Chairman's Statement Operational Review Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
09
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
 
TESCO, LIVINGSTON
Covering an area of 85,000 sqm, this
new Distribution Centre will serve
Scotland's 100+ Tesco stores, helping the
Scottish economy as products can be
picked locally and distributed in Scotland.
The project comprises 3,750 tonnes of
fabricated steelwork, 40 tonnes of which
are Fabsec bespoke plated beams.
 
Atlas Ward 10
Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman's Statement continued
Highlights Group Overview Chairman's Statement Operational Review
My replacement as Chairman is to be Toby Hayward. Toby
provides both valuable accounting background, being a Chartered
Accountant, qualifying with Deloitte and Touche, and has very
extensive city experience. For the last 2  years he has been with
Jefferies International Limited.
John Featherstone 
Also with effect from the close of the Company's AGM, John
Featherstone, one of our non-executive directors, will be standing
down. I have known John since he joined our Board twenty years
ago, as our then sole non-executive and he has provided invaluable
support throughout that time. The Company owes him much
gratitude and wishes him and his wife health, happiness and a
lengthy and vibrant retirement. 
Board Reorganisation 
Taking into account my departure and that of John Featherstone,
the decision has been taken to rationalise and streamline the Board
structure.
Accordingly, with effect from close of business of the forthcoming
AGM, Peter Ellison, Brian Hick, Nigel Pickard and Ian Cochrane will
step down as Main Board members but will of course continue as
executive managing directors of their own companies being
respectively Steelcraft, Severfield-Reeve, Atlas Ward and Fisher
Engineering. I express my and the Board's appreciation of their
important support to the Main Board and look forward to many
years of continued contributions to the Group through a new
Executive Management Committee.
Proposed Board structure post-AGM
Main Board
Toby Hayward Non-Executive Chairman 
Tom Haughey Chief Executive Officer
Peter Emerson Chief Operating Officer
Peter Davison Finance Director 
Keith Elliott Senior Non-Executive Director
David Ridley Non-Executive Director
Geoff Wright Non-Executive Director
Divisional Executive Managing Directors
Peter Ellison Steelcraft Erection Services
Brian Hick Severfield-Reeve Structures
Nigel Pickard Atlas Ward Structures
Ian Cochrane Fisher Engineering
Employees   Key to Success
The consistent achievements of the Group continue to reflect
directly on the excellent management and workforce. The directors'
sincere gratitude is extended to them.
Outlook   Still Positive
The Group's prospects are very good. Our position remains robust
and demand for our services continues to be significant, particularly
larger projects, as exemplified by our record order book and as
observed by other leading construction contractors. 
We have begun this year well and are confident of further success
in 2008 and beyond, including the Company's expressed objective
of exploring overseas ventures. 
Peter Levine
Chairman
1998-2008
2 May 2008  11
Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2007
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
 
WIMBLEDON, LONDON
The multi-million pound
redevelopment of Wimbledon's famous
Centre Court includes enlarging the
bowl to increase capacity from 
13,800 to 15,000 and a new 5,200
sqm, 16 m high retractable roof.
The project incorporates 3,900 tonnes
of fabricated steelwork.
The retractable roof is to be in
operation for the 2009 Championships.
 
Watson Steel