 4 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman's statement
I am pleased to report on a year of significant
progress in implementing Severn Trent's 
focus on water business strategy.
For example, we are determined to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
by being more efficient in what we do and also by increasing renewable
energy generation.
We have a target of generating 30% of our gross energy requirements
from renewable sources by 2012 and are working on longer term
targets to support our 25 year plan.
We will be increasing our focus on water efficiency. This involves
improving our own efficient use of water. It also involves engaging with
our customers and the wider community to influence all our behaviours.
Severn Trent continues to focus on the health and safety of employees
and contractors. I firmly believe that improving safety behaviours of 
our staff and all who work with us and our increasing focus on safety
process review to improve the engineering safety of our assets will
contribute to Severn Trent's overall performance.
Legacy issues
Last year I wrote that when I joined the Severn Trent Plc board and
became its Chairman in 2005 I did not know the full extent of the
challenges which my new board and incoming management team 
were to uncover and the immense commitment of time and energy
which would be needed to manage these issues.
I am now able to say we are finally close to resolving the legacy 
issues and putting this organisation back into the positive position 
our customers, regulators and employees deserve.
We pleaded guilty to two offences relating to leakage data supplied 
to Ofwat in 2001 and 2002. The sentencing hearing to determine 
the amount of the fine started on 2 June 2008 and is scheduled to
resume on 1 July 2008. Once that is concluded, we will be able to
commence discussions with Ofwat concerning the resolution of their
interim report of March 2006 which may result in further amends 
being made to customers.
Our economic regulator, Ofwat, has proposed fines of  35.8 million 
for misreporting customer service data and failing to meet Guaranteed
Service Standards in 2005/06. We accept the principle of a financial
sanction but we have raised issues in relation to the amounts and the
approach taken by Ofwat to determine them.
We have already credited customers' accounts and altered bills
appropriately for subsequent years to ensure we have not profited 
in any way from these past misdeeds.
There is no doubt that the previous regime and culture in place during
the era from 2000 to 2004 was overly bureaucratic and lacked
appropriate controls and procedures.
Those who were responsible have long since left Severn Trent and we
who are responsible for resolving the legacy issues have apologised 
to our customers for their failings. A comprehensive root and branch
reorganisation of Severn Trent Water has been undertaken by Tony Wray
and his management team.
My board and management team has taken, and will continue to take,
all actions we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of both high
ethical and professional standards and resilient and effective controls
throughout our organisation.
Twelve months ago we took the unique step of publishing 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for Severn Trent Water to
demonstrate our ongoing journey to raise standards through 
continuous improvement.
In this Annual Report I am able to present our performance 
against the KPIs twelve months on, so that there is transparency 
in our performance.
Tony Wray, our Chief Executive, will outline in his review some of 
our key achievements and where we need to strive much harder as 
we continue to recover from the consequences of past management.
We believe we can raise standards while reducing costs through the
implementation of better processes and innovation. We are currently
very close to having the lowest bills in the UK. The cost of all Severn
Trent water and waste activities is on average around 80p a day per
household, one of the lowest costs in our industry.
Our plans for the next 25 years are set out in our Strategic Direction
Statement which is summarised on pages 8 and 9.
In addition we will continue to grow Water Technologies and Services
(branded Severn Trent Services) internationally by operating at the
forefront of new technology as a leading supplier of water and waste
water treatment solutions.
Group results
Overall Severn Trent has delivered a good performance in 2007/08, 
with group profit from continuing operations before tax, gains/losses 
on financial instruments and exceptional items at  292.2 million, 
an increase of 16%. Group profit from continuing operations before 
tax was  192.4 million (2007:  325.5 million).
In line with our declared policy, the board is proposing a final dividend
of 41.29p (38.68p) to be paid on 1 August 2008. This would give 
a total dividend for the year of 65.63p per ordinary share, an increase 
of 6.8%.
Corporate responsibility
Corporate responsibility is at the heart of the way we develop, 
manage and operate Severn Trent for long term sustainable benefit.
To this end, we are reviewing our corporate responsibility principles 
and policies to make sure they are in line with our Strategic 
Direction Statement.
Sir John Egan
Chairman
The right team to deliver
24526_Txt_01_48.qxp  12/6/08  11:15 am  Page 4 Severn Trent 5
Direction
Board, management and employees
Colin Matthews retired from the boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn
Trent Water Ltd in 2007.
I thank him for his outstanding contribution to Severn Trent during a
period of substantial change. His leadership in corporate restructuring
has been crucial in laying firm foundations on which we are now
building for Severn Trent's future success, by focusing on water.
Tony Wray, Managing Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd since March
2005, replaced Colin on 2 October 2007 and is already demonstrating
the positive results of our focus on water strategy.
At the same time, three directors were appointed as executive directors
of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd, namely Tony Ballance
(Regulation and Competition), Martin Kane (Customer Relations) and
Andy Smith (Water Services).
These appointments reinforce the board's commitment to the
successful transformation of the group into a focused water company.
John Smith stepped down as a non-executive director of Severn Trent
Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd on 29 February 2008 and as Chairman
of the Audit Committee of Severn Trent Plc. We thank him warmly for
his four years of service during a particularly intense period of the
company's history.
At the same time, we announced the appointments of Baroness Noakes
DBE and Martin Lamb as independent non-executive directors to both
the boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd. Baroness
Noakes was also appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee of Severn
Trent Plc. They both bring a formidable breadth of experience to Severn
Trent which is already proving invaluable.
The board of Severn Trent Plc continually reviews its management plans
to ensure orderly succession and continuity of leadership.
We have also carried out rigorous board effectiveness reviews with 
the help of independent consultants which will generate a number 
of actions to secure improvements to board performance. 
I would like to pay a special tribute to our dedicated employees who
have steadfastly focused on implementing our strategy despite also
having to resolve and repair legacy issues from the past.
I would also like to thank Severn Trent Water employees for their
outstanding support during the floods last July and the commitment
and hard work to restore service to our customers as soon as possible.
Outlook
The outlook for the coming year is one of continued improvement.
In Severn Trent Water, our improvement plans are progressing well. 
We expect to incur around  24 million of restructuring costs over the
remaining two years of the AMP4 period. These restructuring costs will
help drive increases in standards and deliver efficiency savings in the
current AMP4 period and beyond. We expect that the achievement of
our plans will enable us to deliver around  30 million of cost efficiencies
over the last two years of the AMP4 period, which represents around 
3% annual out performance against the Ofwat determination for
operating costs in 2008/09 and 2009/10.
Risks to the achievement of these objectives include the potential impact
of new, externally imposed requirements on the business, principally 
the Traffic Management Act, which became law in April 2008, and
unforeseen variations in commodity prices or unhedged energy costs.
Our energy costs are hedged to 93% of estimated volume in 2008/09
and to 86% in 2009/10.
We have a strong liquidity position and our capital programme is
proceeding according to plan. We continue to expect to deliver on our
regulatory commitments whilst achieving around 6% efficiency over 
the AMP4 period. Achieving this level of efficiency has allowed us to
consider further options to enhance long term value, support our
improvement plans and deliver greater efficiency. The three key areas
we are focused on are:
accelerating our renewable energy programme to deliver greater
operational efficiency, enhance our natural hedge to energy costs
and reduce our carbon footprint;
to engage with our supply chain to develop an early start 
contracting strategy and investment plan to deliver benefits 
in the AMP5 investment programme; and
investments in economically enhancing technology and locations,
principally the construction of the new Severn Trent Centre.
Our decisions to invest in these areas to provide sustainable future
improvements in efficiency will be equivalent to the 6% capex efficiency.
In Water Technologies and Services, the markets for all three areas 
of activity remain strong. We are working to an accelerated and
focused growth strategy, building on our brand recognition and
reputation, our strong market positions, our international scale 
and our advanced technologies.
At group level, we remain committed to achieving our stated target 
of around 60% group net debt to Regulatory Capital Value. At 31 March
2008, group net debt was 58.0% of RCV.
Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment programme
drives strong growth prospects. The management team has a clear and
focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher
standards as the means to achieve both higher levels of customer
satisfaction, and also sustained strong financial returns to shareholders.
24526_Txt_01_48.qxp  12/6/08  11:15 am  Page 5