 Strong performance at Severn Trent Water
In this third year of our current 2010-2015 
business plan, I am pleased to report further 
progress in the operational performance and 
customer service delivered by our regulated 
business, Severn Trent Water. 
Our customers continue to benefit from high quality 
drinking water as well as the lowest average bills for 
water and sewerage combined in England and 
Wales. Customer service standards improved 
year on year and complaint levels have fallen for 
the last two years.
During the early part of the year when we 
experienced drought in the Midlands, we carefully 
managed our water resources, so that we avoided 
the need for a hosepipe ban. Severn Trent Water is 
the only company targeting significant leakage 
reductions over this five year regulatory period 
and in 2012/13, we cut leakage to a 20 year low, 
beating our target in the process. 
Drought over the early part of the year was followed 
by extended rainfall during the rest of the year and 
again, our teams performed well to help protect 
customers from flooding. Despite the rainfall, 
we achieved record levels of compliance at 
waste water treatment works and a reduction 
in pollution incidents.
Our focus on water and waste water services has 
again delivered benefits for our customers and good 
returns for our shareholders. This year Severn Trent 
Water customers saw the first positive impact of 
some of the extra  150 million of investment in 
our water and waste water networks, which we 
announced in May 2012.
In addition, we continue to leverage our skills 
in water and waste water services in our 
non-regulated business Severn Trent Services. 
This year we completed the sale of our analytical 
services and metering operations in order to focus 
on growth in the emerging markets for commercial 
and industrial users in the UK, in the US and our 
global water purification products business. 
  We continue to set ourselves high 
standards in everything we do and 
the continuous improvement that 
we see owes much to the hard work 
and commitment of our team at 
Severn Trent.'
 Andrew Duff, Chairman
Chairman's statement
k 
04 We also help to create the skills that we, the 
economy and our region need. Severn Trent Water 
currently has more than 80 apprentices in water, 
waste water and customer service roles. The calibre 
of young people we attracted for our apprenticeship 
programme has been particularly high, showing the 
attractions of our training and the prospect of a 
long term career in a vital industry. 
Building for growth in non-regulated markets 
Severn Trent Services, our main non-regulated 
business, has sharpened the focus of its activities on 
water purification products and operating services, 
having disposed of its analytical services and 
metering operations. 
Its underlying performance in the year was 
encouraging. Despite challenging conditions in its 
markets, it has won contracts and seen growth in 
sales of water purification products in emerging 
markets. After a period of consolidation, the 
continuing businesses of Severn Trent Services are 
again making progress.
Shaping the future of our industry 
The last 12 months have seen much discussion 
about the direction of regulation in the water 
industry. Severn Trent continues to play a leading 
role in shaping the course of regulation and intends 
to continue to do so. As a progressive business, we 
have advocated changes which will help the country 
make the best use of its water resources, improve 
outcomes for customers and provide suitable 
returns for investors. 
We're therefore supportive of the proposed direction 
of travel for regulation and of the Water Bill, as it 
passes through Parliament. In particular, we're 
positive about the prospects for water trading and 
the opportunities it brings for greater resilience and 
keeping customers' costs down. 
The success of Severn Trent Water reflects the 
commitment of everyone in our business to 
continuous improvement and our drive towards 
higher standards of service, efficiency and 
operational performance. I'm particularly proud that 
the last year was our safest ever. I am personally 
committed to pushing our safety standards even 
higher so that everybody remains healthy and safe 
when they are at work.
Good financial performance
In 2012/13, our financial performance was as 
expected. T otal group revenue increased by 3.4% to 
 1,832 million, whilst underlying group profit before 
tax decreased 3.3% to  266.3 million. This resulted 
in adjusted basic earnings per share of 98.9 pence, 
up 11.2%. 
Our policy during this current five year period to 
March 2015 is to increase our dividend each year 
by 3% more than the retail price index. The board 
therefore proposes a final dividend of 45.51 pence, 
to be paid on 26 July 2013. This will give a total 
dividend for the year of 75.85 pence, an increase 
of 8.2%. 
During the year we were pleased to return a further 
 150 million to shareholders, through the special 
dividend of 63 pence per share in July 2012 and 
we also announced the investment of an extra 
 150 million in our water and waste water network 
for the benefit of our customers. This reflects our 
ability to create value from the business plan 
approved by our regulator to the benefit of both 
customers and shareholders.
Customers and shareholders have benefited from 
our consistent delivery over recent years. Since the 
start of the current cycle on 1 April 2010, Severn 
Trent's total shareholder return including the special 
distribution has been 71.71%, well ahead of the 
25.57% return from the FTSE 100 and the 61.4% 
achieved by the utilities sector as a whole.
Supporting our local economies
On other important matters, we're very mindful of 
the economic, environmental and social benefits we 
bring to the region in which we operate. Where we 
can, we aim to make a positive difference.
In Severn Trent Water, we directly employ over 
5,500 people and many more through our contract 
partners and supply chains. With the UK economy 
struggling to grow, investment by water companies 
has a particularly significant role. Investing in 
infrastructure is one of the fastest ways to boost 
economic activity and water companies use private 
capital, rather than drawing on public funds which 
could be usefully employed elsewhere. During the 
year, we invested  555 million into our network, 
making a substantial contribution to jobs and the 
local economy. 
  Customers and shareholders 
have benefited from our 
consistent delivery over 
recent years.'
Overview Chairman's statement
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
05 The coming year will see the submission of our 
final business plans for the next regulatory period 
2015-2020, following an extensive period of 
consultation with customers, stakeholders and 
regulators. I would like to recognise the role of the 
independent Water Forum, chaired by Dame Yve 
Buckland, in providing a healthy challenge around 
our plans as they have come together.
As a responsible company, our aim is to produce 
a good plan, based on meaningful consultation, 
which finds the right balance between making 
improvements where customers value them the 
most, keeping bills affordable and providing a fair 
return to our investors.
Faced with competing pressures to maintain 
investment and drive up standards, whilst keeping 
bills low, it is essential that our sector has continued 
access to future financing and at a reasonable cost. 
At Severn Trent, we believe that a sustainable 
long term approach to financing should be 
taken by the industry and that regulation must 
therefore attract and incentivise equity finance. 
Excessive reliance on leverage characterises much 
of our sector today.
Summary 
In summary, good performance continues 
to underpin confidence that we can create 
value through the remainder of the current 
regulatory period. 
We have delivered further improvements in 
operational performance and customer service 
at Severn Trent Water. In Severn Trent Services 
we returned to underlying growth. We met our 
financial expectations and generated good 
returns for our shareholders. 
This year's results owe a great deal to the 
commitment, excellence and hard work of 
our people. We continue to set ourselves high 
standards in everything we do and I would like 
to thank management and staff for putting us 
in a strong position for future success.
Finally, I would like to use this opportunity to 
note my thanks to our Chief Executive, T ony Wray, 
who has informed the board of his intention to retire 
from Severn Trent in Spring 2014. 
With a strong executive team in place the timing 
of his decision provides us with the continuity of 
leadership and the necessary time to search for 
and identify his successor over the coming months. 
Andrew Duff 
Chairman
Overview Chairman's statement
06