 2
shanks. annual report 2007
Financial Performance
I am pleased to report a significant improvement in performance
for the year to 31 March 2007. Headline profit (profit from
continuing operations before exceptional items and tax) rose
15% to  39.2m (2006:  34.0m) driven principally by a strong
performance in the Netherlands following the Smink acquisition
in June 2006. Adjusted basic earnings per share improved 18%
to 11.3p from last year's 9.6p following a 1% reduction in the
effective tax rate to 33% (2006: 34%). As a result your Board is
recommending a 5% increase in final dividend to 4.0p per share
(2006: 3.8p per share) which, if approved by shareholders,
brings the total dividend for the year to 5.9p per share (2006:
5.7p per share).
Revenue from continuing operations increased 15% to  509m
(2006:  442m) and profit before tax was  46.1m (2006:
 30.3m) after a  6.9m non cash gain (2006:  3.7m charge) on
the change in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
During the year borrowings relating to the core business
increased by  58m to  134m (2006:  76m) after acquisition
expenditure totalling  65m. Private Finance Initiative (PFI)
company debt also increased by  18m to  123m (2006:
 105m) following continued capital investment in the East
London Waste Authority (ELWA) and Dumfries & Galloway (D&G)
projects.
Divisional Review
United Kingdom
Operating profit from continuing operations decreased by  0.9m
to  3.2m (2006:  4.1m) following lower contributions from PFI
projects and Contaminated Land Services.
Phase I of the project at Frog Island on the north bank of the
river Thames is now fully commissioned and operating at
capacity. Phase II of the project suffered a delay caused by the
insolvency of a subcontractor. The supplier has been rescued as
a going concern and all equipment has now been delivered.
Commissioning has commenced in line with the revised
timetable with the objective of achieving full operations over the
summer. As this is later than expected operating costs will be
higher during the delay period. A programmed price increase in
Summer 2007 will enhance profitability following recent higher
costs associated with the operation of new facilities. Like the
ELWA project, the D&G contract is serviced using the innovative
Mechanical Biological Treatment (MBT) technology developed
with Italian partner Ecodeco. The D&G plant is also fully
commissioned and operating normally. There has been
significant interest from the cement industry in the Solid
Recovered Fuel (SRF) produced by the MBT process and large
scale deliveries have commenced. Further increases are
programmed when ELWA Phase II is commissioned.
As previously reported a stricter interpretation of landfill
regulations by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA)
has caused substantially increased costs on the former local
authority landfill sites within our Scottish PFI projects. A mitigation
programme has commenced and is beginning to bear fruit.
The market for Contaminated Land Services in the year was
significantly reduced from a particularly strong 2005/6.
Nevertheless, a number of smaller projects have been completed
making a positive contribution to results.
The logistics and recycling business has recorded substantial
increases in trading profit fuelled in part by two acquisitions in
the Central Belt of Scotland for a total consideration of  12m.
Our two landfill joint ventures have also traded well showing
increases on the already strong performance recorded last year.
Belgium
Operating profit improved 10% to  17.3m (2006:  15.7m). All
geographic regions recorded increased profits contributing to this
pleasing result. In particular household waste diverted to our
landfill from public sector incinerators, which were suffering
temporary shut downs, prevented the expected decline in landfill
performance.
The 10 year contract for municipal waste collection signed in July
2005 with the City of Li ge is fully operational and contributing
according to its plan.
The acquisition of Stordeur, a small waste collection company, in
Wallonia was completed for a consideration of  0.6m.
The Netherlands
Netherlands activities delivered a strong performance with
operating profits increasing 32% to  31.0m (2006:  23.5m).
The largest contribution to this improvement was the company
Smink Beheer BV which was acquired by the Group for a net
consideration of  43m at the end of June 2006. This acquisition
extends our geographic coverage eastward from our strong
presence in the Randstad area. The early performance has been
in line with our plans and synergy opportunities with our existing
business are now being exploited.
One further acquisition complementing our existing solid waste
activities was completed for a consideration of  10m. The
majority of these solid waste businesses enhanced their profits
during the year as the programme of price and efficiency
increases delivered improvements following the negative impact
in 2005/6 accruing from the closing off of low cost recycling
outlets in Germany.
Our hazardous waste divisions in total also delivered a better
result than in the prior year.
Central Services
Central Services costs rose by 20% to  5.3m (2006:  4.4m).
Higher recruitment costs and increase of National Insurance
contributions on share options were the largest elements of the
movement.
chairman's statement. 3
shanks. annual report 2007
Developments
United Kingdom
In November 2006 the Group was appointed as preferred bidder
for the 25 year contract to manage the waste of Cumbria County
Council. Negotiations continue and it is expected that the
contract will commence in 2008.
Offers are also being made for numerous similar local authority
contracts as the Group seeks to capitalise on progress already
made with the MBT technology in this market. The UK
Government estimates that at least  10bn must be spent on
new infrastructure to process municipal waste if the
requirements of the European Union (EU) Landfill Directive are to
be met. The March 2007 Budget announced an increase in the
Landfill Tax escalator. From April 2008 it will increase from  3
per tonne per annum to  8 per tonne per annum. The Tax,
currently  24 per tonne, will therefore rise to  32 per tonne in
2008 and continue with a  8 per tonne annual increase until a
rate of  48 per tonne is reached in 2010. This change should
accelerate the development of the local authority market.
The Tax will also provide a substantial disincentive for the
landfilling of Industrial and Commercial (I&C) waste. This change
together with the regulatory requirement from October 2007 to
pre treat all waste prior to landfill will provide further stimulus to
the Group's emerging I&C recycling activities.
Three recent Government policy proposals on Planning, Energy
and Waste published in late May 2007 provide endorsement for
the Shanks strategy. Household waste recycling is to be
increased, landfill reduced and there will be greater emphasis on
renewable energy, including, from SRF. Planning for these major
items of infrastructure should also be simplified.
It is expected that the market for Contaminated Land Services
will improve in 2007/8 particularly with opportunities to
decontaminate sites which will be used for the 2012 London
Olympic Games.
The Netherlands
Since the end of the year under review the Group has completed
the acquisition of a Randstad solid waste business for a
consideration of  3m. This company, Kluivers was purchased
from its management.
More importantly, in mid April 2007, the company Orgaworld was
purchased for  10m,  3m of which is deferred, with the
potential for further payments up to  14m dependent on future
profits growth. This company is involved in the composting and
anaerobic digestion of biodegradable waste and brings a new
technology and expertise which can be exploited Group wide over
time.
Belgium
As landfill volumes are expected to decline the Group continues
to search for acquisitions, particularly in recycling industries,
which will provide new compensating revenue streams. A number
of organic growth projects are also under consideration.
Directorate
Your Group Chief Executive, Michael Averill, has an agreement
with the company whereby he could retire at age 57, an event
now less than one year away. The Board therefore considered it
prudent to commence a search for his replacement in good time
and is delighted to announce the appointment to the Board of
Tom Drury (age 45) as Group Chief Executive Designate, with
effect from 3 September 2007. Michael Averill will stand down
from his present position and resign from the Board on 30
September 2007, and at that time Tom Drury will assume
Michael's role. Michael will however be retained in an advisory
capacity until May 2008.
Following an early career with Unilever and
PricewaterhouseCoopers, since 1991 Tom Drury has had a
distinguished career with United Utilities plc, and was appointed
a main Board director in 2005. In 1996 he was appointed
Managing Director of Vertex, and until the recent sale of the
business to US private equity, was responsible for taking Vertex
to a leading position in the UK's highly competitive business
process outsourcing market, with turnover of circa  400m, over
9,000 employees, and a blue chip client base.
The Board is delighted that Tom has agreed to accept the
position of Group Chief Executive of Shanks, and we look forward
to working with him.
During his 13 years as Group Chief Executive Michael has
successfully overcome many challenges, and he will be delivering
to his successor a strong company, which is well positioned to
benefit from the rapid changes that are taking place in the waste
management sector. The Board offers sincere thanks for his
leadership and contribution over the years and wishes him every
success for the future.
Ian Clubb retired as your Chairman at the 2006 AGM. At the
2007 meeting both Philippe Delaunois and Barry Pointon will
also retire from the Group. I thank all retiring directors for their
positive contributions and wise counsel and wish them well for
the future.
I am also delighted to welcome Eric van Amerongen, a Dutch
national, and Stephen Riley to the Board. They bring great
international and electricity industry experience respectively.
Outlook
Recent changes across the Group have positioned Shanks within
growth markets. It has a strong balance sheet, and the
resources and skills are in place to capitalise on market
opportunities. I am therefore confident of further progress in the
current year and for the future.
A Auer
Chairman