 RESULTS
I am pleased to present the results for the year ended 30
June 2004, a year in which progress has been made on
many fronts at Sheffield United. The operating loss prior to
amortisation of cost of players' registrations and cost of
terminating players' contracts is  0.7m compared to a profit
of  0.5m in the previous reporting period, generated from
turnover of  11.8m as against  13.0m in the preceding
12 months. Our results to 30 June 2003 reflected 34 home
matches, two major cup semi-final appearances and
qualification for the play off final. In comparison only 24
home games in the year to 30 June 2004 were played. On a
like-for-like basis, excluding the contribution from all cup
and play off matches, the operating loss for the year ended
30 June 2004 was  0.8m better than in the previous year
from improvements in underlying trading.
The directors are not recommending the payment of a
dividend.
FOOTBALL
The 2003/04 season saw Sheffield United briefly top the
First Division of the Nationwide League but ultimately we
were unable to capitalise on our strong early season results,
failing on the last day of the season to qualify for the play
offs. The sense of disappointment around the Club was
tangible and strengthened our resolve to better achieve in
2004/05. It is worth recording that the list of injured players
for 2003/04 was severe with many senior first team squad
members absent for long periods. However there was a
benefit in that the injuries presented opportunities to our
young talented footballers, and in Jonathan Forte, Kevan
Hurst and Ian Ross we have players of true potential
emerging. However it is recognised that reliance on the
youth team members can adversely affect their personal
development and the progress of the first team. To this end
the squad has been strengthened since March 2004 with the
signings of Simon Francis, Andy Gray, Andy Liddell, Jon
Harley, Leigh Bromby, Alan Quinn, Paul Thirlwell, Danny
Cadamarteri and Emanuele Gabrieli. Neil Warnock and his
management team still look to sensibly strengthen the
squad, taking due cognisance of the Club's wage structure,
to ensure that our economic future is not jeopardised. I
certainly believe our first team squad is stronger this season
and, with a wee bit of luck and freedom from injuries,
remain confident of success.
ACADEMY
It is pleasing to watch the development of a number of
players through our Academy system. Ultimately the success
of Sheffield United's premises at Shirecliffe Road will be
measured on the regular process of first team players
produced with Jonathan Forte, Kevan Hurst and Ian Ross
recently making their debuts and Dominic Roma and Billy
Sharp expected to follow shortly. 
The success of our Under-19s team in reaching the final of
the FA Premier League Academy competition, is a credit to
all those involved. The Under-19s lost in the final to
Southampton but they had beaten Manchester City along
the way and topped the Northern League to qualify for the
finals stage. 
Additional to this national recognition, the Under-18 team
won the prestigious Foyle Cup in Ireland with the Under-17
team complementing them by bringing to Sheffield the
Dunluce Trophy.
The Academy management has changed since the end of
the financial year with the retirement of John Warnock who
has served the Club with dedication and commitment for
15 years. I express my gratitude to John who leaves a
strong legacy on which we will build. Ron Reid has taken
over as Head of Academy Development and with Kevin
Fogg and Scott Sellars I am confident that the Academy - a
key element of the Club's long-term strategy - remains in
good hands.
Links with football in China have been developed during
the year and Sheffield United is implementing an Academy
presence in this important football market. We are
instigating an exchange programme whereby Chinese soccer
coaches can gain experience from our own staff and
talented Chinese scholars will be invited to Sheffield to
improve their soccer skills. Our intention is to establish in a
profitable manner the brand of Sheffield United in the Far
East and China.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 2
Sheffield United plc
  Sheffield United plc
It is pleasing to watch the development of a
number of players through our Academy system. Our Junior Development Centre project at Crookes,
Sheffield, is also progressing with the facilities due to be
available for use in Spring 2005. Sheffield United will
operate a community football programme in this part of the
City, offering all youngsters the opportunity to sample our
facilities and have access to professional coaching. The
intention is to use the Junior Development Centre to talent
spot among Sheffield's best players, as evidenced by the
recruitment of a number of juniors from one of our summer
soccer camps.
OPERATIONS
Much effort has been employed within the year to improve
efficiency and persuade more customers back to Bramall
Lane. Coupled with a strong performance from the first
team squad, these initiatives have paid off with the
underlying results of the group, excluding profits from cup
competitions and the play offs, improving compared to
previous fiscal periods.
Our average crowd for 2003/04 was 21,646, a healthy
increase of 17% on the previous year and testimony to the
loyalty of Sheffield United supporters. We welcome a new
Club sponsor - HFS Loans - a progressive and modern
business, with an expectation that this partnership will
deliver considerable benefits to both parties. It is also
pleasing that Global Windows - a long-standing corporate
supporter of the Club - are the new sponsors of the South
Stand.
New home and away shirts were launched in 2004
complete with the HFS Loans logo. Needless to say the
orange kit is proving to be a real favourite of our fans! The
Superdraw lottery has again proved successful delivering
healthy donations to assist in the financing of the Academy
from some 12,000 regular members.
We recently appointed a new Head of Catering and this has
already contributed to improvements in standards, and with a
strengthened sales effort delivery of improved contributions
to the group is anticipated in the months ahead.
The Blades Enterprise Centre, our serviced offices business,
has delivered a positive contribution and credit is due to
the management who have consistently maintained
occupancy rates at greater than 95%. The benefits that
evolve to Sharrow community remain an important element
to this division of Sheffield United.
DEVELOPMENTS
I have already made reference to the Junior Development
Centre at Crookes, which followed on from the completion
of the Academy development at Shirecliffe last year. In
February 2004 we announced the conclusion of an
Agreement with Las Vegas Sands Inc for the development of
a 200,000 sq ft Entertainment Complex incorporating a
casino and hotel, principally to be constructed on the South
Stand car park at Bramall Lane. The timing of the
liberalisation of the UK Gaming Laws is now more certain
but we believe our proposals fit the criteria of inner city
regeneration that will offer substantial direct benefits to the
Sharrow area in particular and also the City of Sheffield.
Eventual profits from the developments, on the assumption
that consents are forthcoming in due course, will be
invested to the benefit of Sheffield United and therefore
clearly remain within the City assisting in bringing social
and economic prosperity to the area. 
CAPITAL
Shareholders recently approved a rights issue that raised
 5.3m of new capital, before expenses, for the group. Of
this amount  5.0m was provided by Scarborough Property
Company plc, a business in which my family is the
principal shareholder. 
The purpose of the rights issue was to provide the group
with cash resources, partly utilised to reduce our bank
borrowings but also to invest in the football team at a time
when we remain well positioned in comparison with our
competitors.
PROSPECTS
The 2004/05 season has not started as well as we had
hoped and this reflects the higher expectations from all
associated with the Club. Currently Sheffield United occupy
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 4
Sheffield United plc
  In February 2004 we announced the conclusion of
an Agreement with Las Vegas Sands Inc for the
development of a 200,000 sq ft Entertainment
Complex incorporating a casino and hotel,
principally to be constructed on the South Stand
car park at Bramall Lane.
Sheffield United plc ninth position in the Championship but I am sure all would
agree that given the standard of football being played and
the chances created it should not be long before we
progress up the Championship League table.
The economics of football have changed. No longer can
reliance be placed on transfer fees being received to cover
operating losses for Football League organisations.
Accordingly we strive to develop ever more profitable
operations around the group whilst maintaining a cost
structure that balances the football aspirations of all our
stakeholders alongside economic reality. We must continue
to be creative developing new revenue streams alongside
the Enterprise Centre, Academy, Junior Development Centre
and - hopefully - the Entertainment Complex. There are
few of our contemporaries who have made such strides
within the last few years.
SUMMARY
The accompanying Finance Report and Business Review
comprehensively cover activities during the year and gives a
clear indication of the progress we continue to make in
building a business . The support the Club receives from
its Financiers - HBOS plc - is very much appreciated.
Finally I express my thanks to co-directors, executive
management and staff, be it those based at Bramall Lane or
Shirecliffe Road for their continued enthusiasm and
consistent efforts.
To all shareholders, fans and customers of Sheffield United
please keep up your support.
Up the Blades!
Kevin McCabe
Chairman
20 October 2004 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 6
Sheffield United plc
  We strive to develop ever more profitable
operations around the group whilst maintaining a
cost structure that balances the football aspirations
of all our stakeholders alongside economic reality.
Sheffield United plc