 Chairman's Statement
It seems bizarre to introduce our Annual Report &
Accounts by immediately referring to the media
named Tevez affair  but the impact of the admitted
breaches of the rules of football  committed by
one of our competitors in the Premier League have
been and continue to be far reaching.  I am sure all
shareholders and supporters are aware from the
coverage in the national newspapers, journals, tv
and radio that West Ham United FC broke the FA
Premier League rules relating to third party ownership
of players but for whatever reason got away with
it  by only receiving a fine of some  5.5 million,
ironically indirectly reduced by the fee they received
on the subsequent complicated transfer of Carlos
Tevez to Manchester United FC.  I share the view of
almost everyone in the football industry that the
only suitable punishment was a deduction of points,
both to maintain the integrity of the game and to
ensure that West Ham was unable to obtain any
benefit as a result of its wrongful behaviour.
It's stating the obvious that in league football, from
August through to May every week each team plays
for one reward alone and that is points.  At the end
of the season it is the number of points that dictate
success or failure and thus if one club breaches the
rules which affect on the field performances, the
only possible punishment must be a deduction of
points in order to restore the competitive balance
of competition between all of the other clubs.  Surely
to the fair minded sports person (as one would hope
those who govern the FA Premier League are) a
serious breach of the rules by which two Argentinean
football stars were able to play for West Ham (in
the case of Carlos Tevez for virtually the whole of
season 2006/2007) gave that club a major unfair
advantage and left the others - who played within
the rules - at a disadvantage.  Here in the UK, and
in particular England, the home of football, we like
to hold our heads high and believe that governance
of our sport - and in this instance the national sport
and most popular game and league in the world -
is conducted to the highest standards of fair play
and integrity.  Sadly one has to say that the
circumstances surrounding Sheffield United FC's
relegation in May 2007 demonstrates that our
national game at Premier League level only is poorly
governed.
Given we are now heading towards an FA lead
Arbitration seeking redress from West Ham United
FC, I am not at liberty to make any further comments
other than to say if we gain a successful award -
as I believe we should - a monetary sum does not
in any shape or form compensate for what by rights
would have been reinstatement to the top division
of English football.  I do thank all of those who have
assisted Sheffield United thus far in our Campaign
Sheffield United plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Sadly one has to say that the
circumstances surrounding Sheffield
United FC's relegation in May 2007
demonstrates that our national
game at Premier League level only
is poorly governed.
The business of football is no
longer confined to what you
see on the pitch for 90
minutes. It is a major industry,
creating exciting opportunities
for clubs, investors, sponsors
and fans alike.
Well, the events that occurred during the financial year encompassing football season
2006/2007 have to say the least been traumatic.
4 for Fairness conducted locally, nationally and
internationally.
The format of reporting means that within the
Chief Executive's Review there is comprehensive
commentary on all of the divisions that comprise
the Sheffield United group of companies.  Our
transformed business now encompassing Property,
Leisure and Services with Football at its hub
operating within the UK and internationally
continues its growth both on and off the field of
play.
Within the financial year ending 30th June 2007
pre-tax profits amounted to  0.4 million; (2006:
Loss  7.9 million as restated), an improvement
indicative of returns being derived from our unique
business model and the benefits of the Premier
League.  This is demonstrated even more clearly
by the increase in operating profits before player
trading, amortisation and promotion bonuses to
 6.3 million from a loss of  5.4 million in 2006.
 Turnover also rose  significantly to  45.8
million from  27.2 million in 2006 indicating
the scale of the increases in the business
over the last year.
It remains our desire to keep levels of bank
debt in sensible proportion to the interests
we have, much of which is of course
underpinned by the value of the Group's real estate
holdings both in Sheffield and elsewhere.
Subsequent to the year end, SDG Caledonia Holdings
Ltd (a company controlled by myself) committed
to provide a Loan to the value of  10.0
million to Sheffield United plc in order
to ensure that in spite of the loss of
major revenue caused by our unjust
relegation from the Premier League
many of the key business initiatives
could continue to be properly funded and
progressed.  The terms of this Loan also includes
the requirement for SDG Caledonia Holdings Limited
to underwrite any offer of Ordinary Shares at or
prior to the 31st August 2008 if the independent
directors of Sheffield United plc so desire.
I am sure all supporters of the Blades will agree
that the  world's oldest major football stadium'
looks better than ever and match attendances of
last season and the current one give clear
indications that with sustained on the field success
Bramall Lane's capacity will need to be increased.
We have investigated various phased initiatives
to achieve this objective and subject to cooperation
from the officials at Sheffield City Council, an
application to seek planning consent to extend
the stadium will shortly be lodged.  This will involve
building new areas to the Kop Stand to increase
overall seating to cater for 36,000 persons once
completed.  Additionally, submissions for developing
areas of the land surrounding Bramall Lane are
being master planned in a manner befitting the
new hotel - where construction work is now well
advanced - and the Stadium.
Our Academy at Shirecliffe is to be further
developed in 2008 for football and ancillary uses.
The Junior Development Centre at Crookes will
soon have synthetic surfaced football facilities and
an extended pavilion open for use.
In China, our sister club - Chengdu Blades FC -
deserve congratulations on achieving promotion
to their Super League.  With the improved
international management structure overseen and
lead by Executives from Bramall Lane we hope to
see benefits back at base both from the football
and commercial divisions in the coming years.
Sheffield United plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5 Chairman's Statement
Back in 1857, some 150 years ago, football's roots
were founded, not just in Sheffield but within the
immediate area of Bramall Lane.  The  world's
oldest and first football club' - Sheffield FC, celebrate
their historic anniversary and with it an ever closer
association with the  world's oldest United'.  We
are assisting them during this commemorative year
and also by working on joint initiatives to benefit
the two clubs.  To all supporters take time out to
trace the background of the  world's most popular
game' and see how much Sheffield has been
involved. It seems strange that so little profile of
this wonderful heritage for the City is heralded
either nationally or globally.
So, through peculiar circumstances, this season
sees the Blades playing in the Championship.
The start has been somewhat frustrating and
disappointing as our first team squad is
acknowledged by many as being amongst the
strongest in the League.  However, I have little
doubt that under the astute and experienced
leadership of Bryan Robson we will soon be climbing
the table and seeking to achieve our aim of re-
promotion to the League that by rights we should
still be playing within.
As all members are aware, at the conclusion of
last season, Neil Warnock, after seven good years
serving as manager of Sheffield United FC, departed.
He left with the accolade of having worked  hard
for our Club during an era in which the old fashioned
United had been transformed into a modern football
organisation.  We wish him well for the future in
the knowledge that he will always be a Blade.
Our Finance Director, Mark Fenoughty left the
company in June and has joined DLA as their Head
of Finance.   Mark also remains a genuine Sheffield
United supporter who is welcomed at Bramall Lane.
Simon Capper replaced Mark as a Finance Director
in June and brings with him a wealth of corporate
and financial experience.
We have succeeded in achieving many of our aims
since the start of the millennium but if sustained
success is to be attained then Sheffield United
cannot stand still.  Our off the field divisions must
work towards gaining higher revenues and profits.
On the field re-promotion back to the Premier
League is the key priority and thereafter
consolidation as a top half of the table club.  To
realise  these objectives requires the combination
of additional capital and management creativity.
Thus the desire of the Executive is to source further
investment to aid expansion, grow the business
and bring regular success to all divisions, none
more so than football.  The search is on!
My Statement provides the opening comments to
what I hope you will enjoy reading in detail within
the Review from our Chief Executive, Jason Rockett.
These are busy times for Sheffield United, a Club
that is different from the rest.
Up the Blades!
Kevin McCabe
Sheffield United plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
continued
Take time out to trace the background of the  world's
most popular game' and see how much Sheffield
has been involved.
6