 1 The Shell  T ransport and Trading Company, p.l.c.
Message from the Chairman
2002 was a pivotal year. We delivered
robust and competitive profitability in testing
conditions and made great progress in
pursuing our strategic goals - making four
major acquisitions and investing in organic
growth. We worked hard to live up to our
business principles and commitments on
sustainable development. We are well placed
to maintain momentum in uncertain times. 
Sir Philip Watts
Making strategic progress
We have made great progress in pursuing our strategic direction, 
growing value for our shareholders through robust profitability and
our competitive edge.
The Enterprise acquisition increases production and reserves,
and extends opportunities. The major downstream acquisitions in
the US and Germany greatly enhance our competitive positions 
in the largest markets, while the Pennzoil-Quaker State acquisition
provides a platform for global lubricants leadership.
Realising the synergies from these acquisitions is a priority and is
already ahead of schedule. Additional synergies have been identified.
2002 was a pivotal year for the Group. We delivered robust and
competitive profitability in a testing environment - in line with our
business principles - while taking decisive steps to pursue our strategic
goals. Shell companies have the resilience to manage economic and
political uncertainty - maintaining momentum in uncertain times. 
In a troubled world we have made plans to safeguard our people
and fulfil our responsibilities to customers. We are well placed to take
advantage of economic recovery .
I thank all Shell people - as well as those who worked with 
us - for their skill and commitment which delivered this success 
and give us confidence for the future.
Delivering robust results
Business conditions in 2002 were significantly worse overall than in
2001 . In the first six months the downstream businesses faced some
of the most difficult conditions on record.
In this testing environment we delivered robust earnings and cash
flow. On an estimated current cost of supplies basis - excluding special
items - earnings of $9.2 billion were 23% lower than in 2001 . Cash
flow from operations of $16.4 billion fell by only 3%.
From the record levels of 2001 , Oil Products earnings were reduced
by 47% due to very poor refining margins - although, in a difficult
environment, they remained significantly ahead of all global
competitors. Despite higher production, Exploration and Production
earnings were 12% lower . Gas & Power earnings fell by 35%.
Chemicals earnings more than doubled as costs were reduced and
markets began to improve. 
Oil production was ahead of target, even without the additional
volumes from the acquisition of Enterprise. New reserves more than
offset production. LNG sales were at record levels and have grown
by 60% since 1999.
Shell companies continue to show strong competitive performance. 
After delivering $5 billion in cost improvements in three years,
pursuing a further 3% annual reduction in unit costs was ambitious. 
We met this target in 2002 and have extended it to 2004. 
We maintain competitive leadership in key areas, including
Oil Products, deep-water production, LNG and polyolefins.
All this was achieved within a disciplined financial framework -
using our financial strength to make four major strategic acquisitions
and investing over $14 billion in organic growth. Proceeds from
divestments amounted to $1 .5 billion, reflecting the continuing focus
on upgrading the portfolio. 
Enlarging the Group' s capital base increases the potential to grow
value. The decision to seize acquisition opportunities reduced our
returns to a highly competitive 14% in 2002. Raising returns is a priority
for the next years.
Reducing cash balances and raising gearing to our desired band
have increased balance sheet efficiency. 
We aim for - and continue to deliver - consistent long-term real
dividend growth. The proposed final dividend for 2002 is 9.30p,
making a total dividend for the year of 15.25p per ordinary share. 2 The Shell  T ransport and Trading Company, p.l.c.
A major programme to rebrand and upgrade the US retail network
is underway.
At the same time we are creating and executing projects to deliver
organic growth. 
2002 saw continued exploration success, with significant
discoveries and appraisal results in the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Ireland,
Nigeria, Kazakhstan and Malaysia. 
Key projects have been brought on stream, including: 
  the Muskeg River mine of the Athabasca Oil Sands project
in Canada;
  the EA offshore field and the third train of the Bonny LNG 
plant in Nigeria;
  the Penguins fields in the UK North Sea; and 
  petrochemical plants in Singapore and at Moerdijk in
the Netherlands. 
And we continue building the long-term assets to deliver future 
value growth.
Unrivalled experience in developing deep-water fields in the 
Gulf of Mexico is a major competitive asset. We plan to commission 
the Na Kika floating hub later this year to handle production from six
fields, one in a world record water depth of more than 2,300 metres.
The Bijupir -Salema project in Brazil is also nearing completion.
Over the next three years, new LNG trains in Malaysia, Australia
and Nigeria, and terminals in the US and India, will support the
continued growth of our leading LNG business. The Australian 
North West Shelf venture has gained the first contract to supply 
LNG to China. Planning of the massive Sakhalin LNG scheme in 
Russia is making progress.
Differentiated retail fuels - offering higher performance and
environmental standards - are now improving sales and margins 
in 46 countries. 
The decision to approve the major Nanhai petrochemical plant 
in southern China demonstrates the vital role of petrochemicals within
Shell. The project is part of a significant, integrated Shell business being
developed in China. 
Earning trust
Showing that we live up to our values - honesty, integrity and respect 
for people - is even more important in such troubled times. We believe
this requires: 
  engaging with people' s concerns; 
  articulating clear principles and high standards; 
  having strong corporate governance to ensure we live up to them
throughout our operations;
  committing to transparency; and
  communicating effectively. 
We believe that contributing to sustainable development is both about
how we do our business and how our business does in the long-term.
Meeting energy challenges
Energy companies make their primary contribution to society by
helping to meet the energy challenges that will shape our world.
Shell companies contribute in many ways. 
They are supporting energy security for advanced economies
by extending indigenous resources in areas like the North Sea and
Gulf of Mexico, and by diversifying gas supplies. They are helping
to meet the growing energy needs of developing countries, while
reducing the environmental impact, for example, by contributing
to the development of gas supplies in China. And they are widening
access to modern energy, for example, by providing affordable solar
power to rural households.
We have supported the need for precautionary action on climate
change for six years - believing that much can be done that is both
economic and helps to meet other energy challenges, such as
enhancing security. 
We have met our target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions from
Shell operations by more than 10% from 1990 levels by the end of
2002 despite business growth. While continuing to grow strongly we
will manage emissions so they are still 5% below 1990 levels by 2010. 
We also play a progressive role, contributing to solutions by
developing: 
  the gas supplies which are the most important medium-term way 
of reducing carbon emissions; 
  commercial wind, solar , bio-fuels and hydrogen businesses;
  ways of locking up carbon dioxide underground or in inert building
materials; and 
  mechanisms to enable cost-effective emissions reduction, such 
as trading. 
Focus on people
Our continuing success depends on the quality of Shell people and how
well we develop and apply their talents, and harness their knowledge
and creativity across the world. 
The results of our latest worldwide Shell People Survey - completed
by 78% of staff - confirm the value of focusing on this. They show
continuing significant improvements in trust, exceeding the benchmark
standard for high-performance companies in most areas. 
Trusted to deliver
In times of uncertainty, what counts is being trusted to deliver . 
As the long-standing slogan said, we want people to know they 
can be sure of Shell . 
I believe that our performance last year helps us earn and keep
that trust. Trust that we live up to our principles. And trust that we can
maintain momentum even in difficult and uncertain times, building 
on a pivotal year of robust profitability and strategic action.
We aim to deserve continuing trust.
Sir Philip Watts, Chairman
March 6, 2003
Message from the Chairman