 12 SkyePharma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21121-04    28/3/2012    Proof 11
Delivering Multiple tecHnologies creating excellence anD innovation enHancing QualitY oF liFe For patients Delivering Multiple tecHnologies creating excellence anD innovation enHancing QualitY oF liFe For patients Delivering
cHairMan's stateMent
FranK ConDella
Overview
revenue in 2011 was  55.2 million (2010: 
 58.1 million), slightly lower than in 2010, as 
anticipated, due to substantial non-recurring 
manufacturing volumes recorded in the prior 
year. Pre-exceptional operating profit in 2011 
was  11.9 million (2010:  15.3 million), in line 
with the Board's expectations. loss after tax 
was  1.6 million (2010:  6.3 million profit).
the Group finished the year with cash and 
cash equivalents of  15.2 million (2010: 
 29.0 million), after meeting scheduled 
financing commitments for interest and 
capital repayments totalling  23.8 million.  
as announced on 18 october 2011, the uK, the 
reference Member State (rMS ) and almost 
all the Concerned Member States (CMSs ) 
were in agreement that Flutiform  was 
approvable, but a complete consensus was not 
achieved by Day 210 of the decentralised 
procedure (DCP ).  the procedure moved 
into a Co-ordination Group for Mutual 
recognition and Decentralised Procedures, 
human (CMDh ) referral process during 
which the rMS and CMSs sought a consensus 
on the final regulatory position.  the referral 
process concluded and although the rMS and 
almost all CMSs continued to be in agreement 
that Flutiform  was approvable, the complete 
consensus required for a positive outcome of 
the referral process was not achieved.  the DCP 
for the regulatory review of Flutiform  has 
now been referred to the european Medicines 
agency (eMa ) and its Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human use (CHMP ) 
for arbitration.  as part of the arbitration 
process, all members of the CHMP are involved 
in the evaluation and will work together to 
make a decision by a majority vote on the 
regulatory position of Flutiform . t his process 
is expected to conclude later this year. 
Good progress has been made with two 
Phase iii clinical trials of Flutiform  in Japan.  
the Group's licensee, Kyorin Pharmaceutical 
Company ltd (Kyorin ), is expected to file 
the Japanese new Drug application (nDa ) 
during the fiscal year ending March 2013 and, 
subject to receiving approval, launch during 
the fiscal year ending March 2015.  
During 2011 the Group made important 
announcements which demonstrate the 
progress of its strategy:
    Flutiform  was licensed for Mexico, Central 
and South america to Sanofi, the leading 
pharmaceutical company in latin america.
    an agreement was reached with the 
aenova Group to lease the Group's entire 
pharmaceutical manufacturing business 
and premises in l yon as part of a strategic 
move designed to increase utilisation of the 
factory and enhance the Group's liquidity 
from rental income, reduce working 
capital and lower capital expenditure 
requirements. the lease is for an initial  
term of two years extendable for a further 
three years. the financial implications of 
the agreement were effective from 1 July 
2011.
    an amendment has been made to the CrC 
finance facility to enhance the prospective 
liquidity position of the Group.
    the initial  Proof of Concept' study for 
SKP-1052, a diabetes care product 
candidate, has been completed.
    the nDa for lodotra
 
 to the united States 
Food and Drug administration (FDa ) has 
been submitted and accepted, with a 
Prescription Drug user Fee act (PDuFa ) 
target report date of 26 July 2012.
    eXParel  has been approved by the 
united States FDa and is expected to lead 
to the Group receiving a u.S.$10 million 
( 6.5 million) milestone during Q2, 2012.
Since the year end, the Group has reorganised 
its operations in Muttenz, Switzerland, resulting 
in a reduction of 21 staff.  Separately, the Group 
entered into agreements with the aenova 
Group to sub-let part of its laboratory space in 
Muttenz and sell some of its surplus laboratory 
equipment to aenova.  aenova now employs 
15 skilled staff in its new development centre, 
including 11 skilled technical staff recruited by 
agreement from SkyePharma's oral 
formulation and oral analytical development 
team.  aenova will use its Muttenz 
development centre to expand its own oral 
product development activities as well as 
carrying out oral product formulation and 
analytical services for SkyePharma on a 
sub-contract basis.  SkyePharma will continue 
to offer a full range of innovative oral drug 
delivery solutions to its customers through its 
business development team, but on a more 
competitive basis due to lower fixed costs, 
providing greater flexibility for new oral 
business opportunities and its own r&D 
activities. as a result of these agreements, 
ongoing operating costs reduced by CHF 2.6 
million ( 1.8 million) per annum.  
these initiatives reflect the Board's 
continuing commitment to improve the 
prospects of the business and focus on 
exploiting SkyePharma's proven drug 
delivery capabilities and technologies.  13 www.skyepharma.com  Stock code: SKP
21121-04    28/3/2012    Proof 11
Delivering Multiple tecHnologies creating excellence anD innovation enHancing QualitY oF liFe For patients Delivering Multiple tecHnologies creating excellence anD innovation enHancing QualitY oF liFe For patients Delivering
our perForMance
t o further constrain costs and conserve cash 
no inflationary pay increases have been 
implemented in the Group for 2012 and no 
bonuses are being paid in respect of 2011.
Financial highlights
revenues in 2011 totalled  55.2 million, 
down 5 per cent. compared with 2010 
( 58.1 million).  this is primarily due to 
substantial manufacturing revenues in 2010 
related to non-recurring volumes to support 
regulatory and commercial activities.
Pre-exceptional operating profit at 
 11.9 million is consequently lower than the 
 15.3 million in 2010 due to the non-recurring 
manufacturing revenues in 2010. 
loss before tax for 2011 was  1.0 million 
(2010:  6.5 million profit), loss after tax was 
 1.6 million (2010:  6.3 million profit) and 
basic earnings per share were a loss of  
6.7 pence (2010: 26.3 pence gain).
at 31 December 2011 the Group had cash of 
 15.2 million, compared with  29.0 million at 
31 December 2010, the reduction being 
mainly due to costs incurred on preparing for 
the launch of Flutiform .  
Pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (eBitDa ) for 
the year totalled  14.6 million (2010:  18.6 
million) or 26 per cent. of revenues (2010: 32 
per cent. of revenues).  
Board
as announced on 31 January 2012, Dr axel 
M ller resigned as Chief executive officer and 
a director of SkyePharma Pl C with immediate 
effect to pursue other interests.  the Board 
wishes axel well in his future endeavours.
Peter Grant, Chief Financial officer since 
november 2006, was appointed Chief 
executive officer in his place and has retained 
responsibility for the Group's financial matters.
Outlook
a positive outcome of the european 
arbitration decision on Flutiform  
anticipated later this year is key to the 
short-term performance as well as the 
longer-term prospects of the Group.  
Revenues will benefit from milestones of  8 
million ( 6.7 million) if Flutiform  is approved 
and launched in initial markets in europe. 
Contract r&D revenues are forecast to show 
some growth compared with 2011. internal 
resources have been reduced through the 
restructuring of the oral development team, 
which will allow SkyePharma to continue to 
offer a full range of innovative oral delivery 
services with greater use of sub-contracting, 
and inhalation development resources are 
more focused on fee-earning business.  as a 
result, the Group's net investment in r&D, 
which was  8.0 million in 2011, is expected to 
be substantially reduced in 2012.  royalties 
are expected to show a modest decline in 2012 
compared with 2011 due to generic 
competition affecting certain products and 
the withdrawal by astraZeneca of Pulmicort
 
 
pMDi in 2011.  Manufacturing revenues are 
expected to be lower in 2012 as launch stocks 
for Flutiform  were largely built in 2011 and 
sales of certain l yon products are affected by 
generic competition.  Manufacturing costs are 
not expected to be lower than in 2011 due to 
minimum commitments related to the 
Flutiform  supply chain.
overhead costs are expected to be lower in 
2012 compared with 2011 due to the 
reorganisation of the Muttenz r&D 
operations announced in January 2012 and 
continuing cost conservation measures.
the Group's cash position started 2012 at 
 15.2 million, and the Board expects that 
liquidity will benefit from a u.S.$10 million 
( 6.5 million) milestone payment due when 
Pacira achieves the first commercial sale of 
eXParel  in the united States.  this is 
anticipated in Q2, 2012.  if Flutiform  is 
approved and launched in initial markets in 
europe, liquidity will also benefit from the 
receipt of  8 million ( 6.7 million) of initial 
launch milestones, subject to 50 per cent. of 
these amounts being applied as prepayments 
of the Paul Capital note. 
the Group continues to work with Jefferies 
international limited, which is advising on the 
Group's capital structure. SkyePharma 
(Jersey) ltd will seek to commence a dialogue 
with bondholders during the coming 
months.  the aim is to seek a consensual 
solution to rebalance the Group's financing 
obligations to be in line with forecast cash 
generation and this may involve substantial 
dilution to shareholders. Further information 
about the Group's potential cashflows is set 
out in note 2: accounting policies.
the key strategic objectives for 2012 are to 
obtain a positive outcome to the arbitration 
process for Flutiform  in europe, to support 
a successful launch by Mundipharma, to file 
the nDa for Flutiform  in Japan and to seek a 
consensual solution to rebalance the Group's 
financing obligations in line with forecast 
cash generation.  in the meantime, the 
Group's management will continue to 
carefully manage costs and cash. the 
Directors believe that the achievements of 
these objectives would position the Group to 
have good growth prospects and further 
potential to exploit SkyePharma's proven 
drug delivery capabilities and technologies.
Frank Condella
non-executive Chairman