 SOCO International plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
Chairman and  
Chief Executive's  
Statement
From left: 
Ed Story 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer
Rui de Sousa 
Chairman 11
SOCO International plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Dear Shareholders
SOCO enjoyed a great deal of success in 2009, 
delivering record profits on continuing operations, 
obtaining government sanctioning of the Group's 
largest development project and ending with 
record year end cash, cash equivalents and liquid 
investments balances. Even with all of this, from a 
news flow perspective, the past year may seem to 
have been anticlimactic. However, the Group was 
gathering momentum during 2009 towards the 
launch of an exciting exploration campaign in 
both core areas, Africa and South East Asia. Even 
so, the activity since initiating this programme in 
September 2009 has been fractional compared 
with the significant portfolio de-risking due to 
occur this year. 
The exploration campaign will focus upon new 
targets in Africa. Reserve growth could also  
come from the appraisal programme in Vietnam 
where we begin our largest ever development 
programme in the Te Giac Trang (TGT) field and 
drill a promising follow-up well to the 2008 Te 
Giac Den (TGD) discovery well.
Financial and Operating Results
The 2009 financial statements report the first 
return to a full year of production operations since 
2007, following the sale of the Group's Yemen 
asset in April 2008. This resulted in record 
revenues, operating profits and profit after tax 
(excluding disposals). The Group's balance sheet 
strengthened further, ending the year with a cash 
balance (including liquid investments) higher than 
at the beginning of the year. Moreover, early in 
2010 we raised an additional  99.2 million net 
from a share placing which will, with our existing 
funds and operational cash flows, underwrite the 
current exploration and development programmes 
regardless of the number of bonds that may be 
redeemed in May of 2010.
After tax profit of $51.1 million (2008 - $30.6 
million from continuing operations) demonstrates 
the impact of a full year's earnings from the 
Group's two new producing assets in its South 
East Asia portfolio. This was achieved even 
though production from the Ca Ngu Vang (CNV) 
field was curtailed in order to maintain reservoir 
pressure prior to the commencement of water 
injection. Total production net to the Company's 
working interest averaged 6,415 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day (BOEPD) from both assets, on 
par with the 2008 production average over the 
period from start up of production operations.
Cash flows from operating activities of $77.0 
million (2008 - $45.1 million) were in excess  
of 2009 capital expenditure of $73.9 million 
(2008 - $217.6 million) contributing to a year  
end cash, cash equivalent and liquid investments 
balance of $307.6 million (2008 - $303.4 million). 
This combined with net funds raised of  99.2 
million from the share placing in January 2010 
provides the Company with a strong position to 
fund its current exploration, appraisal and 
development programmes.
Due to the continuing need to finance current and 
future exploration, appraisal and development 
projects, the Board of Directors are not 
recommending the payment of a dividend.
2009 Operations Review
South East Asia
Vietnam - Block 16-1
During 2009, the 3D seismic over the TGT and the 
TGD fields in Block 16-1 offshore Vietnam was 
reprocessed, yielding encouraging results for both 
projects. TGT, which the Vietnamese Government 
sanctioned for development during the year, is 
targeted to come on stream in mid-2011 at 
approximately 50,000 BOEPD. Pre-development 
activities commenced during 2009 with the 
ordering of long lead items, commencing 
fabrication of the unmanned platform for Phase I 
development and tendering bids for appraisal 
drilling. A follow-up appraisal well to the TGD 
discovery is expected to be drilled in the second 
or third quarter of 2010 following Government 
approval of the Appraisal Area during 2009. 
Vietnam - Block 9-2
The sixth and final well in the initial CNV 
development drilling programme was drilled 
early in 2009. Production has been temporarily 
scaled back in order to maintain adequate 
reservoir pressure pending the initiation of water 
injection following the drilling of an injector well 
and sidetrack to a current producer in the first 
half of this year. Production in 2009 from the 
CNV field averaged 2,848 BOEPD net to SOCO's 
working interest.
Cash flows from operating activities
$77 .0m
SOCO has been 
gathering momentum 
in 2009 towards an 
exciting exploration 
campaign
Overview SOCO International plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12
Thailand 
Two horizontal wells were drilled on the 
Company's Bualuang field in Thailand in the  
first half of the year in order to maximise oil 
production and minimise water production. 
Following this work, SOCO has booked additional 
reserves in line with those of the operator's 
independent reservoir engineers' assessment. 
Further development drilling activity is planned  
for 2010. A 3D seismic acquisition covering 384 
square kilometres was completed in the first 
quarter of 2010 to further evaluate the field. 
Production from Bualuang in 2009 averaged 
3,567 barrels of oil per day (BOPD) net to SOCO's 
working interest.
Africa
Republic of Congo (Brazzaville)
The Company drilled its first two wells in its  
Africa region in the second half of 2009, both  
in the Company's Marine XI licence, offshore 
Congo (Brazzaville). The Liyeke Marine 1, a low 
cost wildcat well, targeted the Sendji Formation  
but was found to be water saturated and was 
subsequently plugged and abandoned. The 
second Marine XI well, the Viodo Marine 4,  
was a vertical well appraising the 1986, oil rich, 
although structurally complex, discovery. Two  
drill stem tests were completed resulting in a 
combined maximum flow rate of approximately 
2,600 BOPD and 7.0 million standard cubic feet  
of gas per day. The results of the well and 
associated reprocessed 3D seismic are currently 
being incorporated into a model to assess the 
commerciality of the accumulation.
In the first quarter of 2009, SOCO received 
Congolese Government approval to farm-in  
as operator to the offshore Marine XIV Block 
adjacent to the Group's operated Marine XI Block. 
Subsequently, a 100 square kilometre multi-
azimuthal 3D seismic campaign was completed 
and is currently being interpreted ahead of 
SOCO's first Marine XIV well.
Democratic Republic of Congo  
(Kinshasa) (DRC)
During 2009, the Company continued 
interpretation of the 360 kilometre 2D seismic  
on the Nganzi Block that was acquired in  
2008, identifying several major structures. In 
anticipation of drilling two or three exploration 
wells in 2010, the Group began construction  
of roads, bridges and a base camp to facilitate 
drilling in previously inaccessible areas.
SOCO hopes to broaden its portfolio in DRC,  
with its application for a licence over Block 5, in 
the Albertine Graben in eastern DRC, pending a 
Presidential Decree and an application submitted 
for a large interior block.
Angola
Due to recent security incidents in Cabinda North 
the planned 2009 2D and 3D seismic campaign 
was suspended by the operator of the Block. The 
operator currently expects this to resume in the 
first half of 2010.
Corporate
Share Placing
In January 2010, the Company successfully 
placed 7,234,347 new ordinary shares of 20 
pence each at a price of 1410 pence per Placing 
Share (the Placing Price). Based on the Placing 
Price, the gross proceeds of the Placing were 
 102.0 million ($166.0 million). The proceeds  
of the placing further reinforce the Group's 
balance sheet ahead of a period of significant 
expenditure on the TGT development and 
exploration in Africa. Further details can be 
found in the Financial Review on pages 22 to  
25 and in Note 32 to the financial statements.
The Board
As previously reported, Mr John Snyder, a 
Director since the Company's initial listing on  
the London Stock Exchange, retired from the 
Board at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.  
In June, SOCO announced the appointment  
of Ambassador Ant nio Monteiro as a 
Non-Executive Director. Ambassador Monteiro  
was appointed to serve on the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. In August, the 
Company announced the appointment of Dr 
Mike Watts as a Non-Executive Director. Dr 
Watts was appointed to serve on the Audit  
and Nominations Committees. Ambassador 
Monteiro's extensive experience in the countries 
in which SOCO has built its newest core area  
in Africa and Dr Watts' extensive experience in 
the oil and gas industry has added significant 
and complementary skills to the Board. 
Further details can be found in the Annual Report 
of the Directors on pages 36 to 39 and in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 47.
Outlook
There is little question of the significance of  
the 2010 drilling programme as the Company 
will de-risk a substantial portion of its portfolio. 
The potential for material reserves upgrades 
cannot be discounted assuming even modest 
drilling success in the exploration and appraisal 
programme.
Notwithstanding the risks associated with 
exploration drilling in our sector, we believe we 
have taken all of the necessary steps to maximise 
our success ratio for exploration and appraisal 
drilling, which has averaged over 60% since our 
listing. In the event that all of the frontier 
exploration proves unsuccessful, an already 
proven oil field in Vietnam could provide 
considerable upside just from the appraisal/
development drilling alone.
With our most active drilling programme offering 
the most upside potential in terms of adding 
reserves just ahead for us, 2010 will be an 
eventful year. While past performance is no 
guarantee of future success, given SOCO's track 
record on delivering development projects on time 
and to budget and its previous drilling success 
ratio we are confident that we will be able to 
report significant progress during 2010 and in  
the next annual report.
Rui de Sousa
Chairman
Ed Story
President and Chief Executive Officer
After tax profit
$51.1m
Chairman and  
Chief Executive's  
Statement
continued
2010 will be an 
eventful year 13
SOCO International plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business  
Review
Business Review