 Sondex plc
Saxony Way
Blackbushe Business Park
Yateley
Hampshire GU46 6AB
England
Tel: +44 (0)1252 862 200
www.sondex.com
Leading Oilfield Technology
Innovation | Precision | Partnership
Annual report and accounts 2006
Sondex plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Sondex plc is a leading international oilfield
technology group.
The group's products, used throughout the world's
oil and gas industry, include sophisticated logging
and Measurement-While-Drilling (MWD) instruments
that optimise the performance of producing fields.
Sondex, which currently operates through ten
support centres in England, Scotland, the USA,
Canada, Venezuela, Russia, China, Australia and
the UAE, is committed to supplying high quality
equipment and technical support while upholding
stringent health, safety and environmental
protection standards.  Designed and produced by                      www.collegedesign.com
Offices
Customer locations
Chris Roe, Repairs Supervisor in Sondex's Middle
East operations centre in Dubai. An instrument
engineer with 10 years experience in the oil
industry, Chris joined Sondex in 2002.
This is a great place to work... really hard work,
but very rewarding. It is a great experience for
me. We are getting a lot of positive feedback
about our tools and the business is really growing.
The oil industry is becoming more and more
competitive here with many more companies, 
a lot of them quite small. This is good for us but 
it is also pleasing to see the big service
companies increasingly asking for our tools. 
Robbie Leask, Sondex's Customer Support
Manager in Beijing City, China. An electronics
engineer with 27 years experience in the oil
industry, Robbie joined Sondex in 1999.
This is such an exciting place to be... really
moving ahead. Our business is doing very well,
the Chinese like our equipment and customer
support. They see our equipment and
sophisticated technology helping them get more
oil out of the ground and they are really thirsty 
for oil. China is growing so fast and changing
rapidly. I love it here. 
Kelly Brennen, Co-ordinator for the Drilling
Division with Sondex Canada. A field hand  
at heart with 28 years of experience in the oil
industry, Kelly joined Sondex in December 2004. 
Technically this is one of the toughest - and most
competitive - markets in the world. Our pitch 
is to provide a good deal, good tools and
reassurance that we are always there for the
customer. Repeat business is what gives me the
biggest kick.  
Global market
Sondex equipment is sold to international and local oilfield
service companies as well as to National Oil Companies around
the world. The sophisticated monitoring and measurement
equipment is used to assist in maximising recovery from
mature oil and gas fields.
10
international offices
370
customers
373
employees
Technical differentiation
Sondex, headquartered in Hampshire
in the UK has grown rapidly through
internal development, acquisition and
international expansion to employ
373 staff. The company invests heavily
in Research and Development and is
proud of an international reputation 
for the technical strength and reliability
of its sophisticated equipment. The
unique nature and technical content 
of the products offered by Sondex
allows for strong margin generation
and limited competition.
Javier Pernia, Regional Manager for Latin
America North, based in Maturin, Venezuela. 
An electrical engineer with 23 years experience
in the oil industry, Javier joined Sondex in 2003.
Sondex is a terrific company to work with. In my
previous companies there was always pressure 
to cover your back but here there is such a 
co-operative spirit... everyone seems to be
helping each other meet their goals. Before I was
an employee I was a Sondex customer. At that
time, I had looked around and had done my
research and I knew I was getting the best
equipment with the best support. Since we
opened the office here in June 2005 it has been
crazy, very busy. Currently we have customers in
here every day and many of them comment on
the high level of support we - and they - get from 
the Sondex organisation.   Innovation|Precision|Partnership  Sondex plc  01
Contents
01 Financial and operational highlights
02 Chairman's statement
06 Operating review
14 Financial review
16 Directors
20 Corporate governance
24 Directors' remuneration report
29 Directors' report
31 Statement of directors' responsibilities 
in respect of the directors' report and 
the financial statements
32 Independent auditors' report
34 Consolidated income statement
35 Consolidated balance sheet
36 Consolidated statement of changes 
to equity
37 Consolidated cash flow statement
38 Notes (forming part of the financial
statements)
65 Sondex plc company balance sheet
66 Company reconciliation of movements 
in shareholders' funds
67 Notes (forming part of the financial
statements)
72 Notice of Annual General Meeting
75 Company information
Financial highlights
  
Revenue up 62% to  51.4 million 
(2005 -  31.7 million)
  
Operating profit up 76% to  9.7 million 
(2005 -  5.5 million)
  
Fully diluted earnings per share increased 
to 9.0p (2005 - 6.5p) 
  
Adjusted diluted* earnings per share increased 
to 12.7p (2005 - 9.2p)
  
Operating cash increased to  6.4 million inflow 
(2005 -  0.8 million outflow)
Operational highlights
  
Acquisition of Applied Electronic Systems
  
Strong organic like-for-like growth (sales up 42%)
  
Significant investment in R&D, operations 
and facilities
  
Customer base increased by 48%
* Pre amortisation of acquired intangible assets, pro-forma tax charge.
Note: 2005 figures restated under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
Turnover ( m)
06
05
16.1
10.3
35.3
21.4
Revenue Wireline
Revenue Drilling
Operating profit ( m)
06
05
9.7
5.5
Earnings per share (p)
06
05
3.7
2.7
9
6.5
EPS basic diluted
EPS adjusted diluted 02 Sondex plc  Annual report and accounts 2006
Chairman's statement
Your company has had a highly successful
year, during which we have continued to
increase our market share. While we have
been helped by the buoyant market
conditions resulting from consistently high
commodity prices, much of our progress 
is of our own making. 
Our marketing drive, broader operating
base, increased range of products and
significant improvements in our supply chain
management have all contributed to the
excellent operating and financial results. 
We are well placed to build on this success
and I am confident that we can continue to
grow, both organically through the expansion
of our core businesses, and through
appropriate acquisitions.
Results
Revenues rose 62 per cent to  51.4 million
while operating profit increased by 
76 per cent to  9.7 million. Profits, after 
tax and financing costs, rose to  5.1 million
as against  3.3 million, an increase of 
54 per cent. Earnings per share, adjusted 
for amortisation of acquired intangible assets
and a pro-forma tax charge, were 12.7p, 
up 38 per cent on the previous year. The net
margin on turnover improved to 24.3 per
cent (23.7 per cent in 2005). These results
are prepared under International Financial
Reporting Standards and comparative figures
for 2005 are restated accordingly. 
These results reflect the success of our original
business and the measures that have been
taken to reshape the enlarged Group
following the acquisition and successful
integration of Computer Sonics Systems Inc
(CSS ) in 2003, Geolink International
Limited in 2004, and Applied Electronic
Systems Inc (AES ) in December 2005. 
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
1.4p per share (1.3p in 2005), giving 
a total for the year of 2.1p per share (1.95p
in 2005). The increase of 8 per cent reflects
both the performance and the growth
prospects of the Group.
Review of the period
On 14 December 2005 the Board
announced the acquisition of Applied
Electronic Systems Inc (AES ), a USA-based
company providing oilwell logging and 
pipe recovery equipment, for a maximum
consideration of $14 million ( 7.9 million).
The specialist technology, which is designed,
manufactured and supplied by AES, is 
used within oil wells during both drilling 
and production operations and, as such,
complements the Group's wireline product
range. Since the acquisition there have been
highly encouraging increased sales volumes
within AES, most notably in North America.
Developing solutions
Research and development is fundamental to our growth. 
That is why we invest around 10 per cent of our revenues in
developing new technologies and improving existing tools. 
This policy has paid dividends. Our Multi-finger Imaging Tool,
launched in the mid 90's, is now recognised as an industry standard
- more than 700 units have been used successfully all over the world.
And newer products, such as the Magnetic Thickness Tool and the
Downhole Electric Cutting Tool are proving to be just as important.
Your company has had 
a highly successful year,
during which we have
continued to increase our
market share. 