 Performance
Much in line with the majority of businesses across the world, 2009 was a tough year for Sopheon with revenues of  8.3m.  
This compares to  9.3m in 2008, and  6.3m in 2007.  After reporting growth approaching 50 percent the year before, this 
fall of 11 percent was clearly disappointing.  The impact on our bottom line was marked, with an EBITDA loss of  0.2m 
compared to  1.1m profit the year before, and a loss after tax of  1.5m compared to a breakeven position for 2008.  In 
response to these shifts in performance, we took decisive cost actions during 2009, and have reduced staffing from 105 to 
85 over the year. 
In our half year results for 2009 we signalled the challenging nature of the business environment, but in the latter part of 
the year we noted some evidence of improvement, with the potential for a good recovery in the final quarter of 2009.  This 
proved to be the case, with 21 new and extension license orders in the fourth quarter, compared to a total of 27 for the 
first three quarters.  In addition to the improvement in sales, the careful adjustments that we made to our cost base earlier 
in 2009 contributed to a positive EBITDA result for the second half of the year. 
T otal license transactions including extension orders were 48 in 2009 compared to 53 in 2008.  We entered 2009 with 
a licensee base of 157 companies, and grew this to 168 by the end of the year.  T otal business from existing customers 
represented 85 percent of revenues in 2009 compared to 65 percent in 2008; this underlines the strength of our customer 
base and the value that our customers ascribe to their Sopheon solutions. 
From a geographical standpoint, the relative importance of the US rose from 64 percent to 69 percent, with Dollar 
strength playing a role in the increase.  Reseller partners accounted for 9 percent of revenues, down from 11 percent the 
year before.  Accolade
 
 Vision Strategist
 
 contributed approximately 12 percent of total revenues during 2009 compared 
to 13 percent in 2008.  Many of our customers were affected by the economic difficulties, and we did experience some 
terminations of maintenance and rental contracts during the year.  However, when offset by new orders received, the base 
of recurring revenue remained steady at  3.7m coming into 2010, the same as in 2009.  By comparison, we entered 2008 
with recurring revenues totaling  2.6m. 
At the date of this report, full-year 2010 revenue visibility incorporating booked revenue, contracted services business and 
the run rate of recurring contracts already stands at  4.8m.  Revenue visibility is more fully defined in Note 4. 
Clearly, our growth was interrupted in 2009.  We believe that the fourth quarter showed positive signs of a return to 
better times.  However, our business performance remains subject to the timing and size of relatively small number of 
transactions.  This ongoing challenge, combined with the continuing economic uncertainties lead us to adopt a prudent 
stance in planning our operations.
Strategy and Product
Our investment and progress in both product and marketing during the course of 2009 reflect our goal of continued 
leadership of our chosen markets.  In May, we launched Accolade Idea Lab
 
 in partnership with Hype GmbH, bringing to 
         6 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
S T A T E M E N T F R O M T H E C H A I R M A N  
                  A N D C H I E F E x E C U T I V E O F F I C E R
Accolade
 
 is a registered trademark of Sopheon plc.
Vision Strategist
TM
, Process Manager
 
 and Idea Lab
 
 are trademarks of Sopheon plc. market the first integrated solution that not only facilitates generation and development of ideas, but makes it possible to 
seamlessly move those ideas into product development for execution.  During October, we completed a major new version 
of our Accolade Vision Strategist roadmapping software.  Principal advances include greater ease of use, and increased 
support for collaboration throughout the product planning process.  We have also been making significant changes to our 
core innovation process management software.  These changes include a number of product extensions fulfilling short-term 
market requirements that will not only benefit our existing client base but also expand our differentiation, and deepen our 
value proposition. 
In conjunction with product advancements, we have invested in new marketing capabilities that leverage emerging channels 
such as social media.  These new practices have the promise to fundamentally transform the way in which we identify, 
create and nurture relationships with existing and potential customers.  We have also worked hard to improve the strength 
of our partner relationships through the tough economy, both at the reseller level and at the strategic level.  We expect this 
to bear fruit in 2010. 
Major analyst organizations like Forrester, Gartner and IDC continue to see traction and opportunity in our chosen market.  
In December 2009, Forrester noted increasing interest and investment in project portfolio management tools for product 
development, and in the same month Gartner noted that software that supports product strategy and planning is gaining 
attention as a segment of the PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) software market.  Forrester also identified Sopheon as 
one of the clear market share leaders in the PPM space.
People
One of Sopheon's proven market differentiations is the deep domain expertise our people have gained around Innovation 
Governance.  This knowledge and experience has been created over many years from working with industry leading 
companies on this emerging business process.  We are very proud of the commitment that our staff have shown in 
achieving leadership in this area, and in maintaining it through the cost adjustments implemented during the last year.  We 
are confident that we have protected and continue to grow this very important competency in our people, while also 
continuing to invest in our internal best practices and our knowledge sharing programs.  
Sopheon's executive management team, which has been in place for several years, consists of five members.  Our CFO 
Arif Karimjee and the two of us serve on the team, and also act as executive directors.  Our CTO Paul Heller, and vice 
president of research Huub Rutten, complete the group.  Executive management is complemented by a strong operational 
management team that leads the marketing, sales and professional services functions.  The Sopheon plc board is made 
up of the three executive directors, augmented by three non-executive directors who bring a wealth of knowledge and 
experience to our business.  Details about each of us are on the inside back cover of this report. 
Outlook
We entered 2009 cautiously optimistic, but with tight operational plans that made spending contingent on historic and 
forecasted revenue performance on a quarter-by-quarter basis.  As events turned out, our caution was well founded and 
the second and third quarters of the year proved particularly challenging.  We made immediate cost adjustments, but have 
been very careful to preserve our ability to fully pursue our promising sales pipeline.  This remains very active, and leads us 
to believe that the improvements in the final quarter of 2009 are persisting.  Nevertheless, in this environment it is tough 
to predict growth with accuracy.  Accordingly we approach 2010 with the same mindset as 2009.  We recognize, as before, 
that this approach may restrict our growth trajectory in the short-term, but it will nevertheless underpin all hiring and 
expenditure decisions. 
Strategically, we believe Sopheon's position continues to strengthen.  Innovation remains a key priority at many 
corporations.  We are the only vendor that can offer customers a total solution for governance of innovation, covering 
both strategy and execution, while fully integrating an ideation platform.  We have 168 customers under license, with strong 
representation from our core target vertical markets of chemicals, food and beverage, consumer products and defense.  
We are also gaining footholds in the high-technology and medical device sectors.  Our existing customers contributed 85 
percent of revenues, and 70 percent of new orders during the year, validating the benefits of our solutions.  During the 
year, organizations such as Novartis, PepsiCo, the U.S. Army, SABMiller, ConAgra, Bostik and Bell Helicopter extended their 
investment in Sopheon's products. 
Sales cycles continue to be extended, with an increased number of approvals required to get each transaction concluded.  
However, revenue visibility for 2010 already stands at  4.8m and our sales pipeline remains resilient.  Our final quarter of 
last year saw a return to decent levels of business, and was profitable.  Accordingly, while we continue to adopt a prudent 
stance, we remain excited about our recent developments, and about our future.  
Barry Mence Andy Michuda
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
24 March 2010  
  
         7 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER