 Performance
The past year was one of mixed results for Sopheon.  We feel very positive about the advances we have made within our 
business over time.  In 2011, however, these changes did not produce the expected financial growth.  Revenues totaled 
 10.3m, broadly similar to the  10.5m generated in 2010.  In fact, if adjustments are made for the effect of exchange rate 
movements, revenues in 2011 were the same as in 2010.  EBITDA of  1.5m was also the same as 2010.  Thanks to strict 
control of costs, and enhanced conversion of development costs into product, we achieved these results despite the 
expansion of staff in sales, services and development.  For the second year in a row, we are also pleased to report a positive 
bottom line profit after tax of  104,000 (2010:  152,000). 
Total license transactions including extension orders were 54 in 2011 (2010: 58).  We experienced good growth in services 
and maintenance revenues, but license income represented only 29 percent of our total income, compared to 37 percent 
in 2010.  Some of this shift in apportionment is explained by new customers making smaller initial investments, and then 
extending implementation across multiple years.  The rest is largely due to higher-than-expected levels of customer extension 
activity compared to new client acquisition. 
From a geographical standpoint, the relative contributions of the US and European markets remained broadly steady at 64 
percent and 36 percent respectively.  Performance of newer product lines improved in 2011 driven partly by our continued 
investment in development.  Our innovation planning solution, Accolade
 
 Vision Strategist
 
, and our new-product ideation 
offering,  Accolade Idea Lab
 
, contributed 11 percent and 5 percent of total revenues, compared to 9 percent and 3 percent 
respectively in 2010.  Income from the sale of our core innovation process support solution, Accolade Process Manager
 
, 
accounted for the remainder of the total. 
At the date of this report, full-year 2012 revenue visibility incorporating booked revenue, contracted services business and 
the run rate of recurring contracts stands at more than  6.0m, compared to  5.2m at the same time last year.  Revenue 
visibility is more fully defined in Note 4.  
Strategy and Product
We have previously stated that Sopheon's growth strategies for 2012 and beyond center on three key objectives:
 	 Increase our rate of growth by deploying vertical-specific marketing strategies.  Our revised marketing 
approach comprises a vertical-specific, integrated mix of tactics ranging from digital advertising campaigns and web-based 
events to conferences, direct mail and social media programs.  Target sectors include consumer packaged goods, and 
aerospace and defense. 
 
 	 Broaden the use of our solutions within existing accounts.  We have introduced a range of new products 
and services over the past two years, supporting them with account management and marketing programs directed 
exclusively into our customer base.  Most recently, we reorganized our sales teams to segregate and sharpen the focus 
between generating additional revenue from existing customers and adding new accounts.
 	 Expand direct and indirect distribution channels to acquire new accounts.  During 2011, we widened sales 
coverage geographically with new hires on the US West Coast and in Germany.  We also continued to build our 
relationships with consulting partners.  In some cases, the initiative includes development and commercialization of 
joint offerings.  Universally, these partnerships are calculated to leverage complementary skills and reciprocal account 
introductions to generate new customers.
         6 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
STATEMENT FROM ThE ChAIRMAN  
                  AND ChIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER
Accolade
 
 is a registered trademark of Sopheon plc.
Vision Strategist
TM
, Process Manager
 
 and Idea Lab
 
 are trademarks of Sopheon plc. During 2011, we invested in all three of these objectives.  We made progress in some areas.  Where we found progress 
lagging, we made adjustments.  We look for the payoff from these efforts to be reflected in our 2012 results.  On the 
product front, 2011 was a milestone year for Sopheon.  First, we completed a full refresh of the technology platform 
upon which our core software offerings are built, and as a result, these are now wholly based on the current Microsoft
 
 
software framework, .net .  This achievement is the culmination of a multi-year effort that was conducted in tandem with 
the continued creation and commercialization of new product features and functionality.  During 2011, we also introduced 
a new agile development methodology which will allow us to systematically introduce multiple product releases during the 
course of a year, rather than larger releases separated by long intervals of time.  The combination of the platform change 
and switch in methodology provides a mix of important advantages.  Principal among them is that we will be able to build 
products faster and do a better job of ensuring that they are in step with real customer needs.  In 2012, these changes give 
us a springboard for the introduction of a number of new functional releases that we expect will advance the value of our 
solutions in a range of markets. 
Sopheon remains unique in offering an all-in-one software system that encompasses support for strategic innovation 
planning, ideation, product development process execution, and portfolio management across the entire product lifecycle. 
The strength of our market position has been validated by analysts.  Our decision to sustain internal product development 
investment despite the recent, ongoing economic uncertainty is serving us well in the present and will continue to fortify 
our business performance and potential in the days ahead. 
People
Sopheon is differentiated in the market by its reputation for deep domain expertise in innovation management.  That know-
how is embodied in our people, whose best-practice understanding and experience have been developed through many 
years of helping top businesses achieve innovation success.  We are very proud of the commitment that our people have 
shown in lifting Sopheon to a position of leadership in this area and in building on that standing throughout the recent 
economic turbulence. 
Sopheon continues to grow and develop our people.  We are selective about whom we add to the team.  And when 
someone joins, our actions reflect that we understand the importance of transferring as rapidly as possible what we have 
learned over time.  We recently kicked off an initiative to package key aspects of our unique experience and knowledge 
into formal on-boarding and certification training.  In 2012, as this initiative is rolled out, our goal is to reduce the ramp-
up time for new employees.  This, in turn, will improve our ability to scale our organization as the company continues to 
grow, without jeopardizing critical standards for high levels of customer satisfaction.  In 2011, also with the goal of better 
positioning Sopheon for growth, we reported having taken steps to restructure and strengthen Sopheon's executive 
management team.  Our commercial operations are now organized on a regional basis, with teams in North America and 
Europe, led by Mike Ducatelli and Jim Conroy respectively.  Jim is a new appointment who brings an extensive track record 
of sales leadership success to our European business.  he earlier held similar positions at Agentrics, Demantra, and Cap 
Gemini.
The Sopheon plc board is made up of three executive directors, augmented by three non-executive directors who bring a 
wealth of knowledge and experience to our business.  Details about each board member can be found on the inside back 
cover of this report. 
Outlook
Buoyed by strong 2010 results, we expected another year of financial progress in 2011.  Instead, we essentially matched the 
prior year performance.  The principal reason was a fall in license revenues.  We attribute this drop-off in part to strong 
demand from our client base for extension business, which absorbed the attention of our sales team and diverted energy 
from winning new clients.  We have since reorganized our sales resources to ensure a more focused attention to both 
areas.  We believe this will be reflected in improved license performance in 2012, building on our service and maintenance 
income streams, which are now each at run-rates of around  1m a quarter.  Accordingly, we remain positive about the 
growth outlook for the business. 
We entered 2011 looking to take advantage of an improving business climate.  This included controlled expansion of staff 
levels in key areas.  As previously reported, we also took action in late 2010 to improve our working capital position to 
provide the group with flexibility to react to any new, viable market opportunities that arose.  This strategy has enabled 
continued investment where it is judged necessary to near- and mid-term business performance.  Accordingly, we are 
maintaining staffing levels and in fact making further controlled investments in sales and services resources to stimulate and 
support future growth.  Notwithstanding this stance, we are fully conscious of the need to remain vigilant in matching costs 
to revenue expectations, not least due to the continued uncertainty in the global economy.
Looking ahead, our sales pipeline remains very active and includes a number of substantial opportunities from both new 
and existing customers - including some accounts that signed initial business in 2011 - and which we expect to bear fruit 
in 2012.
Barry Mence Andy Michuda
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2012  
  
         7 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Microsoft
 
 is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or in other countries. 