 Introduction
We are delighted to report that trading 
remains robust and in the year ended 
30	 September	 2009,	 r esults	 ar e	
br oadly	 in	 line	 with	 expectations	 on	 a	
constant currency basis and are a great 
credit to the operational management 
team, particularly given that they have 
been achieved in a period of the most 
demanding	 economic	 conditions	 we	
have ever experienced. 
The consolidated results for year 
ended	 30	 September	 2009	 show	
tur nover	 of	  14.44	 million	 (nine	 month	
period ended 30 September 2008: 
 11.66	 million),	 pr ofit	 befor e	 tax	 of	
 3.30	 million	 (2008:	  3.26	 million)	 and	
pr ofit	 after	 tax	 of	  2.79	 million	 (2008:	
 2.80	million).		
Gr oss	 margin	 decr eased	 fr om	 37.5%	
to	 35.0%,	 while	 net	 pr ofit	 margin	 also	
decr eased	 fr om	 24.0%	 to	 19.3%	 due	
to a decrease in unit selling price. 
In	 summary ,	 the	 Gr oup	 achieved	
ear nings	 per	 shar e	 of	 10	 pence	 (2008:	
17	pence).	
The	 business	 climate	 that	 the	 Gr oup	
experienced	 in	 the	 financial	 year	 has	
been unprecedented in terms of 
global	 financial	 crisis.	 On	 a	 domestic	
basis	 in	 China,	 the	 position	 was	
further exacerbated by the melamine 
contamination in Chinese milk 
pr oducts	 during	 early	 2009.	 This	
unfortunate event heightened the 
awar eness	 of	 food	 safety	 in	 China	 but	
it did not deter the strong demand for 
our products, partly due to our high 
food safety standards.
The long standing emphasis on 
customer service and the process and 
quality	 certification	 gained	 allowed	 the	
Gr oup	 to	 maintain	 our	 customers'	
confidence	 during	 the	 challenging	
market conditions.
Market Overview
In response to the global economic 
recession, the Chinese government 
announced	 expansionary	 fiscal	
measures to stimulate the domestic 
economy, together a RMB4 trillion 
fiscal	 stimulus	 package	 to	 boost	
domestic investment and demand. 
The effects of the stimulus have been 
ef fective	 and	 most	 r ecently	 we	 have	
seen recent market indicators such as 
Pur chasing	 Manager	 Index	 (PMI)	 that	
show	 China' s	 manufacturing	 output	
operating in an expansionary mode.  
In addition most recently, the Chinese 
government has reiterated its high 
level	 of	 confidence	 that	 the	 economy	
will	 r each	 and	 perhaps	 exceed	 its	
GDP	gr owth	target	of	2009	of	8%.
In	 addition,	 a	 new	 food	 safety	 law	 was	
implemented	 on	 1	 June	 2009	 as	 part	
of the ongoing effort to ensure food 
safety and high food manufacturing 
standard.
The	 Gr oup	 started	 the	 financial	 year	
str ongly .	 However ,	 it	 was	 unable	 to	
buck the recessionary trend that 
swept	 thr ough	 the	 world.	 Faced	 with	
operational challenges in the industry, 
many of our competitors discounted 
heavily	 to	 de-stock	 and	 maintain	 sales	
and	 whilst	 the	 r esults	 for	 the	 first	 six	
months	 of	 the	 year	 wer e	 encouraging,	
the	 Gr oup	 saw	 r educed	 levels	 of	
pricing	 and	 or der	 visibility	 which,	 in	
the second half of the year, resulted 
in	 a	 lower	 level	 of	 pr ofitability .	 	 W e	
are pleased to have seen a gradual 
improvement in levels of trading as 
we	 moved	 into	 the	 new	 financial	 year ,	
with	 a	 r etur n	 to	 levels	 of	 enquiries	
which	 encourage	 the	 Boar d	 to	 now	
move	 ahead	 with	 its	 plans	 to	 expand	
pr oduction	 capacity	 which	 is	 r eferr ed	
to	 below	 under	 Strategy	 and	 Outlook.
Corporate Developments
We are committed to maintaining 
a high standard of corporate 
gover nance,	 financial	 contr ols	
and reporting systems. To further 
complement and support the Board, 
we	 have	 appointed	 BDO	 (Singapor e)	
LLP , as our internal auditors.
Issued of deferred 
consideration shares
The	 pr ofit	 after	 tax	 target	 of	 RMB	 60	
million	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 31	 December	
2008	 was	 exceeded.	 Accor dingly	
10,300,000	 New	 Or dinary	 Shar es	
of	 6p	 each	 (Deferr ed	 Consideration	
Shar es)	 wer e	 allotted	 and	 admitted	 to	
trading	on	AIM	in	Mar ch	2009.
Strategy and Outlook
China	 as	 the	 fastest	 gr owing	 economy	
in	 the	 world	 was	 not	 spar ed	 in	 the	
global	 economic	 crisis.	 However ,	
the	 Boar d	 views	 the	 situation	 as	
temporary and is optimistic of the 
long	 term	 gr owth	 of	 the	 PRC	 market.	
We are greatly encouraged by the 
recent statements from the Chinese 
government that the domestic is on 
track to meet its goal of 8 per cent 
gr owth	in	GDP	for	2009.
Whilst the food additive industry in 
China remains highly competitive, the 
Gr oup	 maintained	 its	 str ong	 market	
position as the third largest sorbate 
salt producer in China and therefore 
one of the leading producers in the 
World today.  
Chairman's Statement
3 | 2009 Annual Report Chairman's Statement
The	 Gr oup' s	 pr oduction	 and	 quality	
standards are maintained at the 
highest	 level,	 compliant	 with	 all	
key international food production 
standar ds	 which	 place	 Sorbic	 at	 the	
forefront of suppliers to the major 
international food manufacturers.  
The	 Gr oup	 is	 now	 very	 well	 placed	 to	
increase the scale of its production. 
This	 will	 br oaden	 Sorbic' s	 competitive	
position and expand its market share 
in China as part of the strategy to build 
sustainable	long	term	gr owth.	
New Production Lines - Inner 
Mongolia
On	 28	 October	 2009	 we	 wer e	
pleased to announce our decision to 
move	 ahead	 with	 the	 construction	
of	 Sorbic' s	 new	 pr oduction	 lines	 in	
Inner Mongolia. The Board believes 
this	 will	 bring	 significant	 commer cial	
advantages to the Company, not least 
in our competitive standing in both the 
domestic and international markets 
places	 as	 we	 see	 gr eater	 demand	 for	
our products.
T h e 	 n e w 	 i n v e s t m e n t 	 w a s 	 t o 	 t a k e	
p l a c e 	 a t 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ' s 	 c u r r e n t	
production facility in Linyi, Shandong 
p r o v i n c e 	 w h e r e 	 t h e 	 e x i s t i n g 	 f a c i l i t i e s	
are operating at full capacity. As 
current demand exceeds production, 
t w o 	 m o r e 	 p r o d u c t i o n 	 l i n e s 	 t o 	 d o u b l e	
t h e 	 e x i s t i n g 	 c a p a c i t y 	 w e r e 	 p r o p o s e d	
to be built on the existing site in Linyi. 
H o w e v e r , 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 w a s 	 i n v i t e d	
t o 	 b u i l d 	 t h e 	 p l a n n e d 	 n e w 	 f a c i l i t y	
in Chahar Industrial Park in Inner 
Mongolia 	 in 	 August 	 2009.	
The	 pr oposal	 was	 appr oved	 after	
strong supportive feasibility reports 
that emphasized a number of 
advantages	as	follows:
 	 The	 availability	 of	 r esour ces	 such	
as	 coal,	 electricity	 and	 water	 at	 a	
lower	 cost	 which	 will	 impr ove	 gr oss	
pr ofit	 margins	 by	 appr oximately	
20%	 and	 enhance	 the	 Company' s	
competitive advantage;
 	 T ax	 incentive	 that	 lowers	 ef fective	
rate	 of	 tax	 fr om	 25%	 to	 15%	 (a	
40%	saving)	for	the	 next	 10	
years;
 	 Cheap	 industrial	 land	 r esour ce	
at	 less	 than	 45%	 of	 the	 National	
benchmark land price; and
 	 As	 an	 early	 entrant	 into	 Chahar	
Industrial Park, the Company 
should be able to foster stronger 
r elationship	 with	 local	 gover nment	
which	 has	 committed	 full	 support	
for its construction project and 
future development plans;
Construction in Inner Mongolia is 
expected to commence from spring 
2010	 and	 be	 completed	 by	 autumn	 of	
the same year.  We propose to maintain 
production at current operating level 
during	 the	 period,	 whilst	 we	 r efine	 our	
range of premium items and improve 
our brand positioning.  Our aim is to 
maximise	 r evenue	 and	 pr ofit	 generation	
from our existing production facilities 
and prepare the market for the higher 
volume of our premium products 
when	 the	 new	 pr oduction	 facilities	 ar e	
fully operational.
W e	 believe	 that	 the	 long	 term	 financial	
gains from relocation are substantial 
and	 these	 outweigh	 the	 additional	
investment	 amounting	 to	  800,000	
in addition to the overall planned 
investment	 of	  9.5m	 to	 take	 the	 new	
operation	to	first	pr oduction.
The	 Boar d	 is	 confident	 that	 Sorbic	
Inter national	 will	 continue	 to	 make	
progress during the current year, 
buoyed by a more robust economic 
envir onment	 and	 we	 r emain	 entir ely	
focused on delivering value to 
shareholders. We are particularly 
excited	 by	 the	 opportunity	 that	 we	
now	 have	 in	 Inner	 Mongolia	 which	 is	
expected to drive the next phase of 
gr owth	 for	 the	 Gr oup.	 	 These	 new	
facilities	 will	 pr ovide	 Sorbic	 Inter national	
with	purpose	built	pr oduction	facilities	
which	 should	 benefit	 fr om	 significant	
ef ficiencies.	 Inner	 Mongolia	 is	 also	
very	 well	 logistically	 positioned	 with	 a	
modern infrastructure across energy, 
water	 and	 transport.	 	 The	 new	 site	 will	
also have the opportunity for additional 
expansion	 as	 we	 look	 towar ds	 gr eater	
capacity	 in	 or der	 to	 meet	 gr owth	 in	
anticipated future demand.
The	 Boar d	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 the	
management and the employees for 
their	 har dwork	 and	 their	 continued	
dedication	 to	 the	 Gr oup	 which	 has	
made Linyi Van Science and Technique 
Company	 Limited	 (L VST )	 the	 T op-50	
enterprise in Linyi city in 2008.
John McLean 
Chairman
30	November	2008
Sorbic International Plc | 4