 23203-04   Proof 6  6 May 2014 10:45 AM
Source BioScience plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
04
Chairman's Statement
Laurie Turnbull
Summary results
2013 
 '000
2012 
 '000 % change
Revenue 19,525 16,431 19%
Gross profit 8,990 7,418 21%
Adjusted operating profit* 1,420 1,150 23%
Adjusted profit before tax* 1,182 963 23%
Adjusted EBITDA* 3,295 2,669 23%
*   Adjusted results are stated after eliminating the aggregate  1.2 million acquisition costs for Vindon and 
Inverclyde Biologicals in addition to post-acquisition restructuring costs of  1.1 million. The adjusted 
results have been included to present a fair comparison of the progress in the underlying business. 
The acquisition of Vindon will 
accelerate the business penetration of 
the very substantial US life sciences 
and biopharma market. 
This will be initiated from existing 
facilities in Atlanta and Los Angeles, 
thereby significantly reducing the 
risks to the Group. The acquisition 
also brings a range of products and 
services which, while new to Source 
BioScience, address a customer 
base complementary with the existing 
biopharma business. The combination 
of the acquired controlled storage 
expertise and the existing laboratory 
services expertise will enable the 
enlarged Group to offer a one stop  
storage and downstream analysis 
service.
Looking at the underlying business, the 
Directors are again pleased to report 
that operating profit and operating 
cash generation have increased during 
the year, after adjusting for the costs 
associated with the acquisitions and 
restructuring exercise undertaken 
during the year.
The cohesion and commonality of the 
operational infrastructure, expertise 
and enhanced geographic reach is 
critical to driving the growth of the 
business. This represents a joined up  
business built on common technology 
platforms and infrastructure, laboratory 
processes and intellectual capital.
Divisional performance
There is a summary of the activities 
and performance of the Healthcare 
and LifeSciences divisions presented 
below. More detail is provided in the 
Business Review. The activities of 
the acquired Inverclyde Biologicals 
business are included within 
Healthcare and the activities of 
the acquired Vindon business are 
presented in the new Stability and Bio 
Storage division of the Group.
Healthcare
Healthcare revenue was  9.4 million 
(2012:  8.6 million), an increase of 
10%, and divisional operating profit 
increased by 8% to  3.0 million (2012: 
 2.8 million).
The Diagnostic activities continued 
the impressive performance reported 
at the half year and the aggregate 
number of diagnostics tests delivered 
increased by over 130% compared 
with 2012.
A significant component of this 
increase resulted from the launch 
of a sexually transmitted infection 
( STI') testing service and the 
subsequent winning of the Kent 
County and Medway Councils' 
chlamydia screening tender. This 
contract commenced in August 2013 
for the delivery of over 40,000 tests 
per annum and is worth more than 
 1.0 million over three years. Source 
BioScience's expertise in diagnostic 
testing and significant experience of 
supporting the UK Cervical Cancer 
Screening Programme was central 
to the winning of this tender under 
the National Chlamydia Screening 
Programme.
Overview
2013 has been a year of major 
transformation for the Group. Whilst 
the Board's focus has remained 
on delivering continued organic 
improvement in the financial and 
operational performance, 2013 has 
also been a significant year in the 
acquisitive growth of the business.  
Two strategically important 
transactions have been concluded 
in the year: the acquisition of 
Inverclyde Biologicals in April and the 
acquisition of Vindon in September. 
The transactions have been distinctly 
different with respect to scale and 
complexity, but both represent key 
steps in accelerating the growth and 
expansion of the Group.
The acquisition of Inverclyde 
Biologicals has enabled the Group 
to add high quality, high margin 
clinical grade serology products to 
the Healthcare portfolio and leverage 
existing commercial channels to 
increase sales volumes.
The strong foundations 
established for the  
business have underpinned 
another year of significant 
change and continued 
improvement in 
performance.  
Source Bio Annual Report 2013 - proof 6.indd   4 07/05/2014   09:03:39 23203-04   Proof 6  6 May 2014 10:45 AM
www.sourcebioscience.com
LSE Code: SBS
05
During 2013 the Group also saw 
demand increase by 20% for gene-
based companion diagnostic testing 
for cancer. A leading capability in 
DNA analysis, coupled with core 
pathology expertise, mean that Source 
BioScience is well placed to exploit 
the growing demand for companion 
diagnostic testing to meet the 
increasing requirement for gene-based 
testing for cancer and other diseases.
As anticipated during 2013 revenue 
from the Healthcare products 
business, including Cytology, was 
consistent with that achieved in 2012. 
This reflects the on-going three year 
cycle in cervical cancer screening 
which resulted in exceptionally high 
demand for testing experienced 
in 2009 and, subsequently, in 
2012. However, it is pleasing to 
report that the cyclical softening 
in Cytology volumes has been 
more than compensated for by the 
portfolio expansion and geographic 
coverage that the acquisition of 
Inverclyde Biologicals has delivered. 
The cross-selling opportunities are 
being crystallised and the run rate 
for serology products revenue is 
significantly ahead of where it was  
pre-acquisition.
LifeSciences
LifeSciences delivered revenue of  
 7.6 million (2012:  7.0 million), 
an increase of 8%, and divisional 
operating profit increased by 25% to 
 1.2 million (2012:  0.9 million).
Source BioScience's ambition is to 
become Europe's leading commercial 
provider of DNA sequencing and the 
Overnight Service  is instrumental 
in achieving this. The Group's market 
share in the UK continues to increase 
and DNA sequencing volumes during 
2013 were over 70% greater than last 
year, driving both revenue and margin 
growth. The momentum in sequencing 
volumes is being sustained by the 
introduction of new services and the 
expansion of Source BioScience's 
laboratory network. During the year 
the Overnight Service  was launched 
from the Group's newly acquired 
facilities in Bellshill and Rochdale.
As reported previously, a major 
element of the long term growth 
strategy is the own-branding of 
the Group's products under the 
reSource  label and expansion of 
the product portfolio, supported by 
the GenomeCube
 
 search engine 
and e-commerce platform. These 
initiatives are progressing to plan and 
will ultimately enable the globalisation 
of the products business, providing 
distributors, and customers, fast and 
ready access to the enhanced product 
portfolio.
As highlighted above, during 
December Overnight Service  for 
DNA sequencing was launched to 
customers in Manchester, Liverpool 
and Leeds from the facilities in 
Rochdale, which extends the Group's 
ability to cover the majority of major 
UK academic research centres.
Stability and Bio Storage
The new Stability and Bio Storage 
division comprises the market-leading 
activities of the acquired Vindon 
business combined with the existing 
Source BioScience laboratory services 
for biomarker discovery and clinical 
trials, in support of the drug discovery 
programmes of biopharma customers. 
Revenue was  2.5 million (2012:  
 0.8 million) and the divisional 
operating profit was  0.3 million  
(2012:  0.2 million) which includes 
three months results from the acquired 
business.
Integration of Vindon
The integration is progressing to 
plan. The first tranche of operational 
initiatives has been concluded with 
consolidation of the Group's two Irish 
facilities onto a single site, completed 
by the year end, and the consolidation 
of the Group-wide warehousing and 
logistics infrastructure into Rochdale, 
completed in February 2014. The 
operational efficiencies gained from 
these changes will benefit the Group 
immediately.
The first tranche of commercial 
initiatives has also been launched. 
Subsequent to the year end, the 
Group has commenced the marketing 
of the enlarged Group's activities in the 
USA. The initial focus is on rolling out 
the Overnight Service  to customers 
in Los Angeles and providing a next 
day sequencing service for other key 
locations in the US. Alongside this, the 
clone products and serology products 
business has been launched from 
the facility in Atlanta. This will enable 
customers to access these products 
within a timeframe, and at a price, that 
cannot be matched by distributing the 
products from the UK.
Staff
Source BioScience's staff are 
fundamental to the success of the 
business and 2013 was another year 
of significant change and continued 
improvement in its performance. On 
behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank everyone for their hard work 
and dedication and also welcome all 
of the new employees to the Source 
BioScience team.
Outlook
We believe we have a very strong 
business model and opportunities 
for growth are apparent across all 
three divisions. The Board's strategy 
is to expand the service and product 
offering, enabling greater market 
penetration, with the objective of 
delivering increasing returns for 
shareholders. The aim is to achieve 
this through continued organic growth 
from the enlarged infrastructure  
base in addition to further, carefully 
selected acquisitions when the 
opportunities arise, building on the 
strong foundations now established  
for the business.
Laurie Turnbull
Chairman 
24 April 2014
Strategic Report
Source Bio Annual Report 2013 - proof 6.indd   5 07/05/2014   09:03:39