 Summary
This year demonstrated considerable forward momentum for our Group, with three acquisitions, namely
Towerinput Limited and Towerinput Distribution Limited (together Tower ), BGC Limited (BGC ) and
Phoenix Dynamics Limited (Phoenix Dynamics ) having been completed in the past twelve months. The
largest of these was the acquisition of BGC which was completed in September 2007. In conjunction with
the acquisition of BGC, our Group successfully raised  2.9 million through an equity placing from
institutional investors. We welcome these investors to our Group and thank our existing shareholders for
their continuing support.
Concurrent with the acquisition of BGC, we obtained shareholder approval to change our investment
strategy to focus on acquiring companies with turnover of up to  10 million within the support services,
engineering and industrial sectors within the UK and Europe. As a result of the acquisitions, we are now
a much more substantial Group with distinct operating divisions in the three business sectors that we
target. I believe there is considerable scope and opportunity for growth both organically and by
acquisition across each of the divisions, and the sector diversification provides stability for our Group.
We continue to actively pursue earning enhancing acquisitions within our target areas. In the current
economic climate the Board considers that there are greater opportunities to acquire attractive
businesses with strong management teams at competitive prices. Southern Bear affords a rare
opportunity to small companies to incentivise management teams with quoted paper and access to
greater capital resources.
I am particularly encouraged by how our two latest acquisitions, BGC and Phoenix Dynamics have
flourished during the brief period under our ownership. Demand for BGC's services has never been
higher due to government set targets relating to fuel poverty, decent homes and climate change. Phoenix
Dynamics has recorded record sales and profits in its last full financial year, with demand driven by the
sales orders from the burgeoning wind energy and defence sectors. I am also pleased to report that our
third acquisition, Tower, has returned to profitability since the year end.
The underlying operational performance of our Group is complicated by the treatment of goodwill
amortisation under International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS'). Further the audited financial
statements only include the results of BGC, Phoenix Dynamics and Tower for the period owned by the
Group. On an illustrative pro forma basis (assuming a full year contribution from BGC and Phoenix
Dynamics), the sales of our Group would have been  12.7 million and operating profit (pre-central costs
and amortisation) would have been  2.14 million.
Financial Highlights
The Group's results for the year to 31st March 2008 were sales of  8,735,000 (up 189 per cent.) and an
operating profit before amortisation of  1,040,000 (up 149 per cent.).
If the Group had owned all its operating subsidiaries from the 1st April 2007, the annual results for the
year would have reflected sales of  12.7m and a profit before tax (before central management charges
and amortisation) of  2.14m. Set out below is a pro-forma summary income statement of sales and
operating profit achieved by the subsidiary companies for the year ended 31st March 2008.
4 Southern Bear plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
212837 Southern_pp01-pp06.qxp  1/8/08  17:16  Page 4 Date of Acquisition Turnover Operating Profit
 '000  '000
BGC Sept. 07 6,480 1,174*
Tarvail Limited Nov. 06 3,652 536
Tarvail Design Limited March 07 145 (37)
Phoenix Dynamics Jan. 08 1,860 510
Tower Apr. 07 526 (47)
--------- ---------
Sub-total 12,663 2,136
Central management charges   (268)
--------- ---------
Total 12,663 1,868
--------- ---------
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
This table is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect the reported results of the Group.
* The operating profit for BGC is stated before any agreed non-recurring costs incurred prior to the
acquisition of BGC by Southern Bear for the purposes of calculating the earn out.
Since the year end, we have continued to trade in line with our expectations.
Support Services Division
BGC, the Group's largest individual operating subsidiary, is a fully integrated domestic building services
group (including gas, electrical and plumbing maintenance and installation services), primarily servicing
the social housing market.
I am delighted by BGC's success in the year ended 31st March 2008. This year has been a record year for
BGC with turnover rising by over 20 per cent. and operating profit rising by 25 per cent.
A particular cause for celebration was the significant contract win with Kier Stoke, which was announced in
March 2008. Kier Stoke, a joint venture company between Kier Group plc (Kier Group ) and Stoke-on-Trent
City Council, won the maintenance contract for Stoke-on-Trent City Council's 20,000 domestic homes and
500 commercial properties in late 2007. Kier Stoke's contract has been awarded for a ten-year period and is
estimated, by Kier Group, to be worth  400 million in turnover to Kier Group during that period.
The impact of this contract is not reflected in these latest results, but in the current year BGC will
provide a central heating installation service (circa 1,000 units per annum) and a landlord's service and
gas safety inspection programme (circa 6,000 units per annum). Subject to performance, the Directors
believe that further opportunities to deliver other services, such as bathroom replacements, kitchen
replacements, mini-modernisations, electrical works and other maintenance services may be available
across the country in the near future through the Kier Group.
BGC has received an increasing amount of work from beneficiaries of the Warm Front programme over
the past twelve months. The Warm Front programme is the UK's largest grant-funded programme for
tackling fuel poverty and is managed by eaga plc. The Warm Front programme is the cornerstone of the
Government's target to eliminate fuel poverty by installing energy efficiency measures in the homes of
vulnerable persons. The substantial increases in energy prices mean that decisive action on fuel poverty
remains critical. Earlier this year, the Government's Comprehensive Spending review announced
investment of just over  800 million for the Warm Front programme, which was higher than previously
forecast and which extended the programme's funding to March 2011. Consequently, demand for the
type of services that BGC offers has never been higher.
5 Southern Bear plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT - CONTINUED
212837 Southern_pp01-pp06.qxp  1/8/08  17:16  Page 5 In addition to these two key clients, BGC continues to provide maintenance, repair and installation
services to its core market, namely housing associations, local authorities and other types of Arms
Length Management Organisations (ALMO's). This market remains buoyant with significant potential
for further growth. It is currently estimated to be worth approximately  12.3 billion and is supported by
certain public sector initiatives including the Warm Front programme, the Decent Homes initiative and
the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target programme. The Government's commitment to these schemes
creates a positive market environment and opportunity for growth for our Support Services division.
Based on our current order book, we look forward to strong growth from the Support Services division
in 2009.
Engineering Division
Tarvail Limited (Tarvail ) and Tarvail Design Limited (Tarvail Design ) are focused on the design,
fabrication and installation of pipe work systems. Tarvail and Tarvail Design have historically focused on
servicing clients operating within the pharmaceutical sector within the south east of England. However,
opportunities exist to diversify into other sectors such as oil and gas, refrigeration, food, beverage and
building services. Since the acquisition of Tarvail, we have actively pursued new clients in these sectors
and this policy is starting to bear fruit. In the current financial year, we have already exceeded our
forecast turnover for repairs and maintenance work outside the pharmaceutical sector.
We anticipated a major contract with one of our main customers in 2007, and were disappointed when this
was delayed. However, we remain confident that this will be awarded to us in the current financial year
with negotiations being well advanced. Sales are only part of the story and we maintain a careful eye on
costs to ensure that Tarvail remains an important contributor to the Group's operating profit.
Industrial Division
This division currently comprises Tower and Phoenix Dynamics.
The acquisition of Tower has taken time to bear fruit. Throughout 2007/2008, Tower encountered
serious difficulties over delivery of welding products from its key supplier, Hyundai of Korea. This
delivery problem is now well on the way to being resolved, to the extent that Tower is now exceeding its
monthly targets. In addition Tower has secured new business within the glass manufacturing industry as
well as creating opportunities within the rail industry. These initiatives have also resulted in new
business for Phoenix Dynamics and Tarvail.
Phoenix Dynamics had an outstanding year, exceeding previous turnover and profit levels by 60 per cent.
As well as winning a regional Export Award and a performance citation from the US Department of
Defence, it featured in various trade journals. Phoenix Dynamics' primary existing markets, namely
defence and wind energy, are buoyant and we are significantly investing in sales and marketing to further
develop our blue chip client base. Our current order book is larger than at any time in the past and the
future looks increasingly positive.
Prospects
We have created a strong platform to date which will allow us to drive forward with the growth achieved
over the past 18 months. Our position within the relatively robust social housing, alternative energy and
defence sectors should be beneficial. I believe the future is bright for our Group.
Finally, I would like to thank the Board, the employees and our advisers for their hard work and
dedication over the past twelve months without whom our success would not have been achieved.
Jon Pither
Chairman
6 Southern Bear plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT - CONTINUED
212837 Southern_pp01-pp06.qxp  1/8/08  17:16  Page 6