 08 SEG plc/Annual Report & Accounts 2011
*  measured on a trading 
basis (see note 2.5)
**  CER (constant 
exchange rate) is 
calculated by rebasing 
prior year figures at 
current year rates
***  the subscription price 
for the equity raised 
from MBE represents a 
premium of 108 to the 
closing middle market 
price of 24 pence per 
share on 4 April 2012
Dear Shareholder,
The performance of the Group is driven  
by our principal subsidiary Hayward Tyler 
Group Limited (Hayward Tyler ), which is 
the market leader in the design, manufacture 
and service of critical application pumps and 
 uid lled motors to the power generation 
and oil and gas markets. As expected the 
performance in the second half of 2011  
was much stronger than in the opening  
six months, driven by Hayward Tyler's 
aftermarket division, with operating pro t*  
at CER** in line with the second half of 2010.
Overview
Revenue fell by 16.7 (14.7 at CER) to 
 32.1 million, which is mainly the result  
of lower manufacturing revenue. Gross  
pro t margin decreased to 32.9 (2010 
34.9 ) re ecting the poorer performance  
by manufacturing, which generated a lower 
operating pro t* of  2.3 million (2010  
 3.6 million) (2010 at CER  3.3 million). 
Pro t after tax* was  1.3 million (2010  
 2.0 million) (2010 at CER  1.7 million) 
giving an undiluted trading earnings* per 
share of 3.63 pence (2010 8.25 pence per 
share). Non-trading charges for the year 
were  5.9 million (2010  5.0 million) mainly 
the result of an impairment of the Luton 
property ( 2.6 million), impairment of certain 
receivables ( 0.8 million), fair valuing 
derivatives ( 1.1 million) and deferred  
tax ( 1.1 million). Further details of these 
charges are given in the Financial Review.
Working capital management continued  
to remain a focus for the Group in 2011 
particularly in light of the Group's frustrations 
in replacing its banking arrangements. In 
spite of this focus, and in a continuation of 
the trend seen in 2010, it has become more 
di cult to achieve stage payments on new 
orders to fund working capital and as a 
result payments on account fell by around  
a net  1.4 million in the year. In addition, 
trade receivables were high during the nal 
quarter of 2011 but have reduced signi cantly 
in the rst quarter of 2012. Both of these 
features impacted cash generation and 
eroded headroom under the bank facilities. 
The replacement of the principal banking 
facilities during the year was prevented by  
a combination of external factors macro-
economic uncertainty, continued tight  
levels of credit from the banking sector and 
uncertainty while the Company was in an 
o er period, and two internal issues weaker 
 nancial performance, as indicated at the 
half year, and a legacy derivative instrument, 
which our existing bank was unwilling to 
retain. After examining all available options 
the Board concluded that the Group should 
raise equity to buy-out the derivative, which 
is an in ation rate swap, in order to secure 
stable banking arrangements. On 10 April 
2012 we were pleased to announce that 
sub ect to shareholder approval we have 
secured an in ection of  5.0 million of equity 
from our largest shareholder (25.3 ), MBE 
Mineral Technologies Pte Limited (MBE ), 
together with new borrowing facilities.  
This transaction, which is expected to be 
completed in May 2012, will encourage 
closer operational, commercial and market 
led bene ts and opportunities with MBE,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of one of India's 
leading engineering, procurement and 
construction companies. Further details  
of the transaction and borrowing facilities 
are given in the Financial Review.
Business activities
As we have noted before, one of the 
strengths of the Hayward Tyler business  
is the balance between the two business 
divisions of manufacturing and aftermarket. 
There is a strong correlation between being 
the original equipment manufacturer 
(OEM ) and the provider of aftermarket 
services relating to that equipment, which 
includes servicing and spares. The 
aftermarket division has demonstrated  
John May 
Non-executive Chairman
Ewan Lloyd-Baker
Chief Executive O cer
Established in 1815, 
Hayward Tyler is  
one of the UK's oldest 
engineering companies
Chairman and 
Chief Executive' s statement
The Group welcomes the proposed re nancing through  
MBE that will establish a rm base from which it can  
grow the aftermarket division and deliver a more e ective 
manufacturing operation. 
Left to right: 
John May
Ewan Lloyd-Baker   09
a robust track record over recent years and 
there are further signi cant opportunities  
for this division to build on our installed base 
in markets such as China and India. The 
manufacturing business on the other hand 
faces an uncertain future unless it becomes 
more exible and responsive to the demands 
of the market.
Manufacturing
The manufacturing division produces  
a range of pumps and motors for the 
power generation, oil and gas and defence 
markets. In spite of certain improvements 
made to the division in 2010 that resulted 
in reduced lead times and increased 
margins, trading in 2011 was weaker.  
This performance re ects a lower level  
of revenue than 2010, which resulted from 
a short-term softening in demand for new 
units from the two largest markets of China 
and India, as well as problems in the 
supply chain. Full year revenue was  12.9 
million (2010  18.6 million) (2010 at CER 
 18.2 million). Gross pro t margin fell  
to 12.1 (2010 27.4 ), which re ected  
a higher ratio of xed costs to revenue,  
the impact of a weaker US Dollar and an 
exceptional positive contract in 2010. This 
generated an operating loss of  1.0 million 
(2010 pro t of  1.3 million) (2010 at CER 
pro t of  0.9 million). 
In the rst half, the business su ered delays 
that related to the sourcing and quality of 
larger bespoke castings. The ma ority of 
these units were shipped in 2011 with the 
remaining shipped in early 2012 at the 
customer's request. The experience on these 
contracts highlighted problems in the supply 
chain and to address these operational 
de ciencies the Company has appointed a 
Group Chief Operating O cer and Group 
Supply Chain Director to lead a programme 
to restructure manufacturing operations in 
the UK. The programme, which commenced 
in late 2011, is focused on delivering a more 
robust manufacturing operation and reliable 
supply chain. In addition, the programme  
is expected to provide a more exible cost 
base and an operation that will be closer to 
the needs of its customers. In turn this will  
allow the business to focus on two of its  
core strengths technical and engineering 
expertise building on Hayward Tyler's  
brand and reputation for reliability.
 5.0m
equity raised  
before costs
Aftermarket
The second half of the year delivered a 
strong result compared to the rst half  
(H1 2011  8.3 million) across all sectors 
with revenues rising to  19.2 million 
(2010  19.9 million) (2010 at CER  19.4 
million). Gross pro t margin rose to 47.2 
(2010 44.5 ), which re ected the mix of 
business, and this delivered an operating 
pro t of  4.4 million (2010  4.6 million) 
(2010 at CER  4.5 million). This 
performance is particularly encouraging 
given the slowdown in the nuclear related 
aftermarket in the immediate aftermath of 
the Fukushima earthquake in March and 
the relatively weaker performance of the 
Group's US aftermarket business in 2011 
due to the Fukushima events and 
uncertainty over US energy policy. 
The performance of the aftermarket 
business illustrates the bene t of having 
an installed base on which to provide a 
service o ering. The business is mainly 
driven by the provision of spares to the 
existing installed base (of which Hayward 
Tyler has the dominant market share)  
and by eld service work across the globe. 
The ability to deliver high and consistent 
levels of customer service combined with 
a distinguished brand and reputation help 
di erentiate Hayward Tyler from its local 
competitors.
Group
In addition to the restructuring of the 
manufacturing division, the Group has 
decided to rationalise its head office 
operations by closing its London office  
and consolidating senior management 
functions, which removed the operational 
managing director role from Hayward Tyler.
Market overview
Order intake for 2011 was 5 ahead of  
the previous year at  31.6 million (2010 
 30.1 million), which gave an order book  
of  20.5 million at the year-end split  
between manufacturing at  13.0 million  
and aftermarket of  7.5 million. At the end of 
March 2012 the order book had reduced to 
 18.7 million (manufacturing  10.6 million, 
aftermarket  8.1 million). The lead time  
for the manufacturing division is 10 to 12 
months, which means that the business now 
has an order book stretching to 2 2013. The 
aftermarket division has shorter lead times, 
typically being 3-6 months, and order intake 
has been driven by competitive pricing for 
new units with the US operation entering the 
year with a strong order book that is around 
50 higher than at the same time in 2011, 
which is encouraging for the current year.
Prospects and outlook
The Group welcomes the proposed 
re nancing through MBE that will  
establish a rm base from which it can  
grow the aftermarket division and deliver  
a more e ective manufacturing operation.  
In addition, the commercial and operational 
bene ts of closer ties to MBE will help the 
Group to achieve these goals. For example, 
by tapping into MBE's network, Hayward 
Tyler will achieve greater penetration of  
the aftermarket in India and by accessing 
MBE's manufacturing operations it will 
improve supply chain reliability, reduce 
product cost and decrease delivery times  
for the production of new units.
The softening demand for new units from 
China and India that the Group experienced 
in 2011 is starting to abate as expected  
and allied to the work on our operations  
and supply chain, the long-term outlook  
for the manufacturing division is beginning 
to look more positive. In addition, we are 
encouraged by strong trading in the US 
aftermarket business in the rst three 
months of 2012 and the increasing activity 
levels in the nuclear sector.
Finally, we would especially like to thank  
all of our 312 employees who have worked 
hard during the past year against a backdrop 
of uncertain economic conditions with 
enthusiasm and tenacity.
Yours faithfully
 
 
John May Ewan Lloyd-Baker 
Non-executive  Chief Executive  
Chairman Officer 
April 2012 April 2012 
108%
issue price premium 
to share price***
Business review