 Placing our 
strategy 
in context
Overview
I am pleased to report that we achieved a profit before tax (before 
amortisation and exceptional costs) of  12.4m for our full financial 
year, with  7.6m in the second half-year building on the  4.8m for 
the first half-year.
We have continued our drive of recent years to keep tight control 
over costs, to strengthen our revenue base and to manage the 
business so as to maximise cash generation. We are convinced  
that these actions have been instrumental in this year's return  
of the business to profitability and have laid the foundations for 
future growth. 
Underlying Group revenue (excluding revenue from the disposed 
accommodation hire operation and the expired Network Rail 
contract) for the year was  326.4m (2011:  313.0m), an increase  
of 4.3%, (whilst unadjusted revenue of  329.3m was down 7.0% 
(2011:  354.2m)). Our gross margin improved to 67.1% (2011: 61.3%). 
EBITA (before exceptional costs) increased to  19.6m (2011:  8.3m) 
with net cash flow generated from operating activities amounting to 
 17.7m in the year (2011:  12.3m). Net debt has fallen from  113.9m at 
the beginning of the year to  76.3m at 31 March 2012, a 33% 
decrease. These results are a welcome vindication of our disciplined 
approach to stabilising the business, setting it on the path to 
recovery and positioning it for the future.
The sale of our accommodation hire operation was completed in 
April 2011, removing a significant loss-maker from the Group.
Strategic progress
Since 2009 we have taken decisive action in response to the global 
financial crisis and in FY2012 our focus was on continuing self-help 
measures to strengthen both the balance sheet and our returns in 
what is still a difficult economy, whilst positioning the business for 
growth when the economy recovers.
Our results are also a reflection of the Group's strategy of developing 
close, long-term strategic partnerships with major customers and 
industrial groups. This has allowed us to gain access to their supply 
chains at low cost, and offer broader complementary activities in 
testing, repair, inspection, maintenance, asset management and 
training services, both in the UK and internationally.
Throughout the year we maintained our focus on strengthening  
and differentiating our business. We continued to diversify into 
a wider range of customer segments and to target those market 
sectors where there is, and will continue to be, significant public  
and private investment to meet critical infrastructure needs.  
We broadened our customer offerings by developing our support 
services to complement our hire of assets. To facilitate our strategy 
and to provide a platform for the long term we steadily refreshed 
our fleet, invested in targeted capex, improved our IT infrastructure 
and evolved our property portfolio.
Chairman's 
statement
Business review
 Our self-help actions and  
drive to create a more robust 
business have seen us deliver 
tangible results and, although 
mindful of the ongoing 
uncertainties in the economy, 
we look forward to the future 
with increased confidence.  
Ishbel Macpherson
Non-Executive Chairman 
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
18 Business review We remain committed to our strategy of maintaining our focus  
on cash, costs and customers, in order to build profitability. Our 
priority remains to restore our UK business to full health, whilst 
investing judiciously to improve efficiencies. We will also develop  
our fledgling operations and product offerings, principally 
International and in testing, repair, inspection, maintenance, asset 
management and training services. It is particularly pleasing that 
the International division has hit the important milestone of 
achieving an operating profit in the second half of the year and  
we are targeting further progress in the current year.
Funding
In June 2011 we concluded an extensive refinancing exercise  
and signed a  220m asset-based revolving credit agreement  
with a syndicate of six banks. It matures in January 2015 and has  
no scheduled repayment requirements. This replaced a  210m  
cash-flow-based loan facility. We have been pleased to have 
received this vote of confidence from our lead banks and the 
additional support of new syndicate members.
Dividend
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.2 pence per ordinary  
share on 27 January 2012, consistent with the interim dividend  
paid in FY2011.
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy as markets 
recover, but remain careful in our approach to cash. The Board  
is recommending an increased final dividend of 0.26 pence per 
share, reflecting our confidence in our continuing recovery.  
This represents a cash cost of circa  1.3m. If approved by 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, this will bring the total  
for the year to 0.46 pence per share. 
Governance and board changes
We strongly support the importance of upholding the principles of 
good corporate governance, not only for compliance purposes, but 
because we recognise that good governance reduces risk and adds 
value to the business. We strive continuously to improve our Board, 
executive governance structures, policies and procedures. During 
the year we developed an umbrella Code of Conduct and updated 
existing and constructed new policies on areas such as anti-bribery, 
hospitality, gifts and sponsorship, whistle-blowing, data protection 
and competition. We have also complied with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and details of how we have applied its main 
principles are set out in the Corporate Governance section on  
pages 36 to 40. 
Membership of the Board has undergone a number of changes  
in the past year. Following the last AGM Chris Masters was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director, after the retirement of  
Peter Atkinson from the Board, and in September Lynn Krige was 
appointed as Group Finance Director after Justin Read stepped 
down. We have been delighted with the direct industry and 
international knowledge, the skills and the commitment that Chris  
and Lynn have added to our Board.
The Board would like to reiterate its gratitude to Peter and Justin  
for their valuable contributions and wish them well for the future. 
 
I would also like to thank our General Counsel and Company 
Secretary, Suzana Koncarevic, for her drive, professionalism  
and support to the Board over the last three years and wish her 
well. We welcome her replacement, James Blair, who has been  
with us since February and has over two decades of experience.
During the year we engaged the services of specialist  
performance consultants to carry out a detailed and independent 
review of the Board's effectiveness. Most areas examined attracted 
high ratings with no areas of significant concern, whilst also making 
constructive recommendations to improve and enhance the Board's 
effectiveness further. It was also found that the Board has a good 
mix of skills and capabilities and in recent times has been both 
streamlined and strengthened with new appointments.
Employees
The achievements of this year would not have been possible,  
nor would we be confident about the future, without the people  
we have in the Group. Their quality and commitment continues to 
be a fundamental strength of our business. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank Steve Corcoran, his team and all the employees 
for their loyalty and hard work over recent years of considerable 
difficulty. Their dedication and skill has enabled us to report positive 
results for the Company, despite the continued demanding 
economic conditions. To incentivise our people and in recognition of 
the pressures on household budgets, we awarded our employees 
modest performance-related pay increases throughout last year. 
We have determined to continue this policy for the current year and 
to channel the limited funds available for pay increases towards our 
lower paid employees.
Outlook
Although our business has been through a very testing and 
unrewarding period for shareholders, we are pleased that our 
actions and strategy have set us on the path of recovery. Given  
the continuing uncertainty in the economy we will continue our 
disciplined approach to cash, costs and customers to ensure that 
we are well placed for the future.
Our market-leading position and strong cash flow have  
positioned the Group to take full advantage of the market upturn 
when economic conditions allow. Whilst we anticipate that our 
trading will be affected by some disruption from the Queen's Jubilee 
and the Olympics, the new financial year has begun satisfactorily. 
Although there is still uncertainty in the construction sector in 
particular, we are confident that the actions we have taken have 
increased our resilience and given us a solid platform from which  
to make further tangible progress in the year ahead.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 18 July 2012  
at Etrop Grange Hotel, Thorley Lane, Manchester Airport M90 4EG. 
I look forward to seeing you there.
Ishbel Macpherson
Non-Executive Chairman
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review 19
Business review