 4 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
I have to open my first full year report with the recognition
that 2005 did not meet our expectations in respect to
financial results for Atlantic Global.
The results for the year are disappointing, showing no
year-on-year increase in turnover, and the first loss in the
company's history.
T o put this into perspective, however, we should examine
the maturity of the Project Portfolio Management (PPM)
market-place, which is the classification of software that
Atlantic Global produces and sits most comfortably within. 
PPM software is a powerful and transparent tool that
empowers managers to deliver controlled and predictable
execution of projects. It provides executives with real-time
visibility into the performance of an organisation, helping
them decide which projects, programmes and initiatives
to fund, which to sustain and which to cease. As such
PPM encourages alignment between corporate
objectives and supporting investments.
The PPM market is in its infancy and continues to be defined
and developed by the software industry and its analysts. As
a result, we have found ourselves working with many target
customers performing, in effect, an educational role with
regard to business change and project management best
practice. It became apparent during these exchanges that
the full benefits of PPM, as a leading edge discipline, were
still to be fully understood by the market. The need to make
the potentially significant core process changes required
within their organisations in order to extract full return on
investment has restricted immediate acquisition of our
product. 
However the financial performance does not reflect either
the operational progress achieved or the lessons learnt
during 2005. It is apparent that market interest in and
understanding of PPM is growing. This is evidenced by
major software analysts (most notably Gartner) identifying
this market specifically , and giving it a separate identifiable
classification. Gartner has created one of their Magic
Quadrants for this category of software and Atlantic
Global' s inclusion in this is a major coup, providing a third
party recognition of our leading position. We are one of
only two European organisations included in the quadrant,
and are recognised as one of 25 leading vendors in this
software space worldwide. 
In late 2004 and early 2005 we took the decision to invest
heavily in our sales and marketing teams in anticipation of
the market uptake of PPM software. As the year
progressed it became apparent that we were too far in
front of the market' s acceptance and understanding, and
our investment did not lead to the expected top line growth
resulting in a financial loss before taxation and goodwill for
the year of  450,000. Having recognised these issues, we
adjusted our cost base and sales methodology during the
third quarter of 2005 followed by further refinements to
the sales process during the fourth quarter and into 2006.
The Head of Marketing has developed highly focused
marketing campaigns for 2006, based on the continued
forging of links with software industry analysts to further
enhance our reputation in this emerging software space.
One example of this is the fact that we were invited to
attend the European Gartner Symposium, one of only ten
vendors and the only UK listed vendor to exhibit. Our sales
process is continually improving, as is our ability to qualify
and handle the sales leads that we are receiving from our
marketing campaigns.
As the PPM software sector develops further, Atlantic
Global Corporate Vision continues to mature. The early
implementations of our PPM software have bedded in and
are showing increasing benefits in Norwich Union,
Barclays Bank and LogicaCMG amongst others. We have
gained new Corporate Vision PPM software customers
such as Virgin Mobile, Friends Provident, Orange and
Xchanging. 
We believe everything is now in place to deliver a far higher
volume of Corporate Vision deals in 2006. With regard to
Atlantic Global's broader product portfolio, we have kept
pace with relevant market developments, and are looking
to package attractive product propositions that will give
more benefit to our clients and derive higher revenue. Our
Business Solutions software remains an essential part of
our integrated product suite.
Results
The Group has achieved a disappointing result during
2005 with an operating loss, before goodwill, of  505,000
(2004: profit  293,000). The turnover of the group for 2005
was very similar to the previous year  2,137,000 (2004:
 2,146,000). The total expenditure on the Sales and
Marketing functions during 2005 was  1,550,000, which
was over 50% more than the  1,009,000 we spent in
2004. Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
The continued investment in building our company has
caused a further temporary cash outflow during 2005. The
Group had net cash balances, at end December 2005, of
 1,539,000 compared with  1,896,000 the year before,
showing a decrease of  357,000, which also includes the
payments of the final dividend of  172,000 and taxation
of  74,000 paid during 2005 in relation to the financial year
ended 31 December 2004. The Group remains in the
excellent position of being financially secure, with a
positive cash flow being achieved for the second half of
2006. The cash balance at the half year was  1,479,000,
increasing to  1,539,000 by year end. This is as a result
of the improved trading position in the second half of the
year where the loss on ordinary activities before taxation
and goodwill was reduced to  73,000 from the first half
year loss reported of  377,000.
Dividend
The Directors are not proposing a dividend for the year
ended 31 December 2005, (2004: 0.75 pence). The
Directors will revert to their progressive dividend policy as
demonstrated since the company's admission to AIM,
when circumstances become appropriate.
People
We recognise that our team's quality, skills and
determination to succeed are vital ingredients in achieving
corporate success. Credit for our achievements in 2005
is due to every member of the team, and I would take this
opportunity, on behalf of my fellow shareholders and
myself, to offer all of them our appreciation of their efforts.
During 2006, we plan to recruit additional people to key
areas, in a controlled way, continually striving to improve
the overall quality of our workforce. 
A significant proportion of our people have share options,
and we will continue to use this mechanism to help ensure
that they remain closely allied to the success of the Group. 
Strategy for the future
The fundamental strategy of the Group remains unchanged
but will be delivered in a more focused way. We are seeing
an increasing number of business enquiries for our software
products, and are putting every effort into converting these
into tangible new clients. The forecast demand for PPM
products is strong with more and more organisations facing
the need to improve the productivity and effectiveness of their
workforce. The application of Atlantic Global's software
products can demonstrably lead to quick and significant
improvements in operational performance. This applies to all
people intensive organisations, in both private and public
sector, irrespective of whether their resourcing model is
based on in-sourcing, out-sourcing or, more usually, a
combination of the two. 
The refined sales methodology further enhances our
mission to work in genuine partnership with our clients. It
will involve us working more closely with existing and
prospective clients pre-acquisition to help them understand
the benefits and return on investment that would justify the
investment in our solutions. It is planned that this work will
be undertaken on a paid for consultancy basis which will
give us much greater visibility of our sales pipeline. This
approach also benefits the prospective client with a lower
initial investment but a much clearer and easier decision
making process once the clear benefits of the software are
demonstrable, resulting in a more predictable revenue
stream during 2006.
We remain committed to maintaining our position as one
of the leading players in the PPM market place. We are
confident that Atlantic Global is well placed to take
advantage of the predicted growth in this software market.
We have re-established a solid operational foundation for
the business that will allow us to take advantage of the
growth in this market as it occurs. Our objective is to bring
the company quickly back to profitability, resulting in cash
generation, and grow the business within tight control in
order to generate increased shareholder value.
We will further investigate, during 2006, whether certain
other channels are appropriate for the sale and distribution
of our products.
Acquisitions
The Board's current policy of concentrating on organic
growth remains unchanged from previous years and,
therefore, the Group is not involved in an active acquisition
strategy. However, we would consider any exceptional
acquisition opportunities that would improve shareholder
value, providing they are compatible with our strategic
objectives and are reasonably priced in accordance with
their profitability and quality of earnings.
Current Trading
From our management accounts for January and
February 2006, together with knowledge of March 2006 6 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
sales, I can confirm that the year has begun in line with our
expectations. Although it is too early to predict accurately
what degree of success the Group will achieve during 2006
as a whole, it is encouraging to see that the current level
of sales engagement is at an all-time high, and is still
increasing.
Annual General Meeting
We shall be holding our AGM on Wednesday 19th April
2006 at 2.30pm in our Company Head Office at Park
House, Woodland Park, Bradford Road, Chain Bar,
Cleckheaton, West Yorkshire, BD19 6BW.
In addition to the usual formalities of the meeting we will,
as in previous years, arrange time in which shareholders
will be offered the opportunity to understand more about
our company and business. Following a number of
presentations there will be an opportunity for shareholders
to meet the Directors and discuss the progress of the
Group. I would extend the Board's invitation to all
shareholders in the hope that as many as possible attend.
Steve Allen
Chairman
14 March 2006