 4 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
This is my second report to shareholders following my appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in
September 2007, and I am pleased to report a further significant increase in profitability for 2008.
Results
The Group produced profit before taxation of  401,000 for the twelve months ended
31 December 2008 (2007:  286,000). The turnover of the Group for 2008 was  2,176,000,
(2007:  2,303,000).
Earnings per share were 1.40 pence (2007: 1.02 pence).
Atlantic Global continued to invest in and develop its products during 2008. Despite this, the
Group continued to generate cash and had net cash balances, at the end of December 2008, of
 2,159,000 compared with  1,546,000 the year before.
New Clients
During the year, we have gained new Project Portfolio Management (PPM) software customers,
including Netstore, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Belgium), GETECH Group plc, Andrew Winch
Designs, Alliance Boots Healthcare, Admiral Insurance and 4D. We have also upgraded a
significant part of the Norwich Union (Aviva) implementation to an all module  licence, ensuring
further penetration into the Aviva Group. The Group has experienced successful relationships
with existing customers, as evidenced by new sales being made to Xchanging, Stepstone, The
British Library, Pfizer, Bank of Tokyo and Harvey Nash.
Recurring Income
A strong feature of Atlantic Global is the level of recurring support and maintenance income which
in 2008 was around  766,000 (2007:  730,000). This provides a solid base for the Group and
means any new licence sales contribute significantly to profitability so the business has high
operational gearing.
Operating Review
Our stated goal for 2008 was to increase the profitability of the Group and also to launch the new
OnDemand service. OnDemand is a cost effective, easy-to-use business management software
solution designed to manage a business' employees, projects and customer relationship
processes through a single fully web enabled solution.
I am pleased to confirm that we have achieved these objectives with the continued increase in
profitability and the on schedule launch of the first two of our OnDemand modules in October
2008.
The third module was launched at the end of January 2009 and the Enterprise module is
scheduled for release in April 2009. This new OnDemand service represents a significant
investment for the Group which has been ongoing since March 2006. It provides Atlantic Global
and its customers with many benefits:
9022 - Atlantic Global RA:Layout 1  30/3/09  19:06  Page 4 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
Wider Geographic Coverage
The OnDemand product has complete Multi-Currency and Multi-Lingual capability with English
(UK), English (US) and French provided as standard. Additional languages are available on
request.
Deployment
The OnDemand product provides a flexible range of deployment options ranging from
(a) On-Premise - which is similar to a traditional client installation
(b) Hosted - where we install the product on Atlantic Global's infrastructure but in a dedicated
customer environment or
(c) OnDemand - which is where all customers share the same Atlantic Global infrastructure.
Product Improvements
The OnDemand Service reflects Atlantic Global's 16 years of experience working with large
organisations in this field. In addition, the new product is specifically designed for the OnDemand
market which required us to place a greater emphasis on Security and Scalability which is why
the Group has engaged with organisations that specialise in these areas to ensure that we are
adopting the latest methods and techniques.
Reduced Product Purchase Governance
Providing the Software as a Service by-passes much of the governance introduced by larger
organisations in relation to the standardisation of software product purchases. Finally, a Service 
means that the adoption of the solution does not require CAPEX budget approval.
Streamlined Licence Model
The Group has streamlined the licence modules to target well defined markets that include:-
(a) Time & Expense Planning,
(b) Project & Resource Planning,
(c) Client Relationship Management
(d) Enterprise Business Planning
Customers can now purchase a central pool of licence units that can be deployed across any of
the four modules. Each user will use a licence unit for each module that they wish to access.
Hosting Partners
We have signed a partnership contract with OpSource (www.opsource.net) to provide our
OnDemand infrastructure. OpSource will also provide a 24/7 helpdesk service and integration
capability (www.Boomi.com).
9022 - Atlantic Global RA:Layout 1  30/3/09  19:06  Page 5 6 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
Sales and Marketing
The Group has launched a new web site (www.atlantic-global.com). The new website places a
greater emphasis on selling the OnDemand modules supported by online videos and a free
30-day trial.
We continually analyse the traffic on the Web and monitor the keywords that prospective
customers use to search for our software. We believe the current adverse economic conditions
will see organisations placing a greater emphasis on management information, especially in the
field of resource productivity and portfolio delivery.
Partnerships
The new OnDemand product will make it easier for other organisations to partner with Atlantic
Global. It removes the need for them to learn how to install the product and it makes it easier for
Atlantic Global to remotely support the implementation irrespective of where they are located in
the world.
Atlantic Global believes that the current economic climate lends itself to a partnership
engagement model. We are targeting potential partners who have an established customer base,
existing relationships within those organisations and where they see an opportunity to promote
Atlantic Global's products as a means of delivering added value to their customers. This would in
turn drive additional revenue to the partner. We are pleased to report that we are currently actively
exploring several partner opportunities.
Strategy for the Future and Acquisitions
The Board is continuing to seek acquisitions and to investigate complementary channels which
will significantly increase the size of the Atlantic Global footprint within the software market.
Repurchase of Company Shares
For a number of years Atlantic Global has maintained relatively high cash levels reflecting the cash
generative nature of the business. The return on this surplus cash is increasingly modest and the
Directors believe that this cash could be better used by continuing to repurchase some of the
Group's shares for cancellation. The Directors believe this will enhance shareholder value and
accordingly we will seek re-approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting from
shareholders to repurchase up to 10% of the Company's outstanding share capital from time to
time. During 2008, the Company repurchased 115,000 shares at a cost of just over  20,000.
Since Atlantic Global's year end the Company has purchased a further 35,000 shares at a cost of
 6,200.
9022 - Atlantic Global RA:Layout 1  30/3/09  19:07  Page 6 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
Current Trading
From our management accounts for the first two months of the calendar year, I can confirm that
trading is in line with our expectations, continuing the strong finish to 2008, with sales of the new
OnDemand product starting the year strongly. We believe that recent additions to our product
range and delivery capability will enable the Group to enjoy continued success in 2009.
I am pleased to report that seven new customers have signed up to use the OnDemand service
during this period ranging in size from a small eleven user implementation to a much larger 490
user implementation. This demonstrates the broad appeal of the product and its relevance to
varying sizes of organisation.
We have already secured 60% of the Group's budgeted 2009 maintenance contracts and the
current order book for services represents 30% of the budgeted service revenue for 2009.
I believe that the Group is well placed to achieve another year of continued profits growth during
2009.
Annual General Meeting
We shall be holding our AGM on 5 May 2009 at our Head Office at Maple House, Woodland
Park, Bradford Road, Chain Bar, Cleckheaton, West Yorkshire, BD19 6BW.
Following the formalities of the meeting we will, as in previous years, have time in which
shareholders can meet the Directors and discuss the progress of the Group. I would extend the
Board's invitation to all shareholders in the hope that as many as possible attend.
Dividend
The Directors are proposing a full year dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of
0.4 pence per share (2007: 0.3 pence per share). This is in addition to the interim dividend paid
of 0.25 pence per share. The total for 2008 is therefore 0.65 pence per share for 2008 compared
to 0.3 pence per share in 2007. The Directors will maintain a progressive dividend policy.
People
Atlantic Global continues to recognise and pay tribute to the employees for their hard work and
professionalism that has enabled the Group to continue to increase profits and to deal with the
effects of the current recession. We intend to augment our sales and marketing departments to
facilitate the planned growth of the business during 2009.
Adrian Bradshaw
Chairman
24 March 2009
9022 - Atlantic Global RA:Layout 1  30/3/09  19:07  Page 7