 A period of 
positive change
The last 18 months has seen a complete 
re-shaping of SR Pharma's business focus and
strategy. The Company has made a strategic
move into the fast moving RNAi technology
sector which is set to revolutionise the
identification and development of novel
therapeutics for previously unmet medical 
needs and is very committed to growing critical
mass in this sector. During the second half of 
the year ended 31 December 2005, the Company
made excellent progress in developing its business
in line with the plans set out in July 2005 when
Atugen AG, a leader in siRNA therapeutics, was
acquired for  7.5m and  10m of new funding 
was raised.
As a result of these transactions SR Pharma
plc has now established itself as a well funded
European biopharmaceutical company with 
two operating subsidiaries; Atugen AG in Berlin,
Germany and Stanford Rook Ltd in London, UK.
We are committed to making further strategic
moves to strengthen our position both
scientifically and financially and we anticipate
further significant transactions during 2006/2007.
Notwithstanding the unsettled market
conditions in mid 2006, SR Pharma has seen 
a significant and disappointing decline in the
Company share price. This is frustrating for our
shareholders and the frustration is shared by the
Board and Management who continue to take 
the view that their priority must be to create high
quality product development programmes which
in turn will lead to the creation of a significant
and sustainable increase in shareholder value 
in the medium term.
In addition, the Company continues to 
pursue active discussions at the highest level of
the pharmaceutical industry, with significant 
interest in our proprietary technology base.
The Company is also proactively exploring 
M&A discussions with like-minded and
complementary businesses as part of its 
value building strategy.
A strong and committed 
shareholder base
Following the move in late 2004 from the
main market of the London Stock Exchange 
to AIM, the acquisition of Atugen AG and the
subsequent  10m financing the Company's
shareholder base has been considerably
strengthened and now comprises a number of
blue chip investors including Insight, Fidelity,
Artemis, Gartmore, Apax, MPM Capital and
Novartis Venture Fund. In addition to these
institutional shareholders, Introgen Therapeutics
Inc., a US biotechnology company, holds a 
9% stake in SR Pharma plc.
Financial stability
As of 31 December 2005 the Group 
had  9.1m in cash which, coupled with the
forecasted mid-term revenue stream and in 
the absence of any further M&A transactions,
means there is sufficient funding to support 
the Company's development plans for the next 
2 years. During the year we have reduced the
personnel and facility costs in Atugen by 20% 
and 15% respectively and cut back operations 
in the UK to a core team. It is anticipated that
any future M&A activity will be completed in
conjunction with a further fundraising to support,
as necessary, the enlarged entity. It is your Board's
aim to ensure that until profitability there is
always a minimum of a two-year cash  runway'.
Chairman's Statement
2 SR Pharma plc Annual Report 2005 3 SR Pharma plc Annual Report 2005
A smart M&A strategy
Through the acquisition of Atugen AG the
Company now has a stake at the cutting edge 
of medical science. SR Pharma is now a leading
company in the RNAi sector and as a result the
business focus has inevitably moved towards the
US market where RNAi technology companies are
highly valued. As a consequence in 2006/2007
your Board will look to increase significantly our
presence in the US market through continued
M&A activity and in addition announce a number
of US based collaborations with pharmaceutical
and biotech companies to validate, underpin and
co-fund our product development programmes.
In line with this strategy, in March 2006 the
Company announced it had granted a licence 
to Merck Inc and as a result of increased interest
and other strategic moves by pharmaceutical
companies in the RNAi sector we anticipate
further significant deals being announced in
2006/2007. Within our sector, it is normal and
expected that big pharma collaborations can take
a considerable time to complete and only when
we have our own products in the clinic might 
we see a true acceleration in third party activity.
Value creating assets
As shareholders you will recall from the 
AIM Admission Document of June 2005, that
Atugen AG has 30 employees, owns novel,
chemically modified proprietary siRNA molecules
( AtuRNAi') and a proprietary in vivo delivery
system ( AtuPLEX'). Clinical development of
AtuRNAi therapeutic molecules for systemic
applications in Atugen's oncology programmes 
are targeted to start in 2007. Other AtuRNAi
therapeutic programmes with third party
collaborators are scheduled to enter the clinic 
in the second half of 2006. We have several lead
siRNA molecules in pre-clinical development 
and at the research stage for other therapeutic
indications. For the benefit of those readers
unfamiliar with the RNAi sector we have included
a brief overview in this report (see pages 6 to 11).
Also, I am pleased to report that Stanford
Rook Ltd (SRL) has continued to operate as a
separate subsidiary with its own proprietary
Mycobacterium vaccae-based technology and
related products for immunotherapy. In late 2005
Eden Biodesign Ltd, the operator of the National
Biomanufacturing Centre, based in Liverpool, was
appointed to assist SRL with the development 
of a robust manufacturing process for M.vaccae
based products and discussions have commenced
with third parties regarding the future commercial
exploitation of this technology. In addition SRL
has filed patent applications relating to a novel
synthetic molecule which, from initial pre-clinical
screening studies, demonstrates activity in allergic
conditions. Also licensing discussions are underway
in respect of the Inositol Phosphoglycans product
portfolio and further announcements are expected
in 2006/2007.
An emerging R&D pipeline
Since the acquisition of Atugen, SR Pharma
has accomplished several key R&D milestones.
We have established a pipeline of lead siRNA
candidates for siRNA therapeutic applications in
advanced cancers (in particular hepatocellular
carcinoma and pancreatic carcinoma) and several
We have taken a stake 
in the fast moving 
RNAi technology 
sector which is set 
to revolutionise 
the identification 
and development 
of novel therapeutics. lead siRNA molecules and respective formulations
have already been tested in vivo for efficacy in
animal models predictive of human diseases.
We have appointed a number of third 
party contractors including Fulcrum plc to 
assist and oversee the development of our 
siRNA therapeutics programme, OctoPlus to 
assist with the development of GMP grade
formulations of our AtuPLEX lipid technology 
for systemic delivery and also we have appointed
internationally respected consultants to assist
with the regulatory and pre-clinical and clinical
development issues. In addition in-house we 
have established fully functional lipid chemistry
laboratories to synthesise and characterise lipid
components and formulations and manufacturing
agreements have been signed with Genzyme
Pharmaceuticals and BioSpring to ensure the 
supply of GMP grade production for all
components.
I am pleased to report that our lipid chemists
have accomplished a key technical breakthrough 
by manufacturing a lyophilized (dry-powder)
liposomal-based siRNA formulation. The dry
powder formulation extends the shelf-life 
and simplifies the distribution chain, with a 
one-step reconstitution process enhancing 
ease of administration.
We remain on track to commence in 
early 2007 clinical trials of our proprietary 
siRNA molecules in patients with advanced
cancers at the Charit  Hospital in Berlin.
Professor Wiedenmann, Director of the Medical
Clinic for Hepatology and Gastroenterology 
& Interdisciplinary Centre of Metabolism at 
the Charit , Berlin has agreed to oversee 
the clinical trials.
In addition we have further strengthened 
our IP portfolio by filing new patent applications
covering the lipid components, the formulations
used and specific siRNA sequences. As anticipated
we have continued to file oppositions in the RNAi
sector as appropriate.
We have continued the collaboration with our
partner Quark Biotech, Inc. (QBI) in terms of the
development of an AtuRNAi candidate indicated
for Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD).
According to QBI this product is due to enter 
the clinic in 2006. QBI has started pre-clinical
development with a second AtuRNAi candidate 
for the indication of Acute Renal Failure.
Third party support and
endorsement will be essential
During the year we strengthened the 
business development function within Atugen 
by appointing an internationally experienced
Director of Business Development and as a result
all major biotech and pharmaceutical companies
with an interest in RNAi have been contacted and
many visited. Accordingly a number of interesting
discussions are ongoing whereby we are looking 
to set up a number of collaborations in the RNAi
sector. Also we have achieved an extension of a
high-profile public grant (RiNA grant) financed 
by Germany's Federal Ministry of Education and
Research; the State of Berlin and funds from the
European Union for an additional 9 months 
worth approximately  600,000.
4 SR Pharma plc Annual Report 2005
Through the 
acquisition of 
Atugen AG the 
Company now 
has a stake at the 
cutting edge of 
medical science.
Chairman's Statement continued 5 SR Pharma plc Annual Report 2005
In conclusion, whilst 2005 was the year 
in which we made a dramatic move into RNAi,
the true value of these strategic investments lie in 
the future and I believe that, by remaining patient
and making the right moves in the future, we will
be able to further consolidate our position over
the next 12-18 months. Your Board believes that
enhanced and sustainable shareholder value 
will be built on the basis of creating a pipeline 
of proprietary RNAi products validated by
meaningful third party collaborations and 
remains committed to achieving this goal.
Finally I would like to thank the Board,
the management and the staff for their support,
hard work and tenacity over the last year and 
I look forward to seeing the benefits in the 
near future.
Iain G Ross
Executive Chairman 