 SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 02 Chairman' s Message   Ian Martin
Chairman's Message
Ian Martin
As a focused consumer
healthcare company ,
growth in the value of
our brand portfolio is of
paramount importance
to shareholders.
Financial performance
Results for the year are complicated by our soon to 
be completed disposal programme. In the key area
of consumer brand sales, however , there were a
number of noteworthy achievements. Durex sales
growth continued with 7 .4 per cent recorded for the
full year , in line with the trend seen at the half year
and ahead of last year . Scholl footcare grew 7 .4 per cent
in the second half generating a full year performance
of 3.7 per cent. A similar trend was evident in OTC
where second half sales growth of 1 .5 per cent
reduced the decline of 5.4 per cent in the first half to
a1 .9 per cent decline on a full year basis. The footwear
business is now being prepared for growth with
two specialist senior appointments and innovative
product introductions.
Our overall operating margin expectations were
realised with an operating profit before exceptionals 
of  74.5 million generating a 12.4 per cent margin.
This is lower than last year reflecting the dilutive
effect of the Marigold industrial gloves disposal.
The subsequent medical disposals will also reduce
margins. Our on-going consumer business achieved
an operating profit before exceptionals of  26. 1 million
at a margin of 6.4 per cent. This margin is expected to
improve in the future as the effect of anticipated sales
growth and continual cost control feed through.
Our cash position continues to improve; free cash flow
of  85.2 million was generated in the year , of which
 61 . 1 million resulted from disposals. Working capital
management improved further to 19.6 per cent of sales
compared with 21 .3 per cent last year .
Notwithstanding the encouraging operating
performance, we have recorded a loss per share 
of 4.2 pence in the period, compared with a profit 
last year of 13. 1 pence. This results from losses on
disposal of the Marigold industrial glove and wound
management businesses, including recycling of
goodwill previously written off against reserves, and 
the writedown of certain assets in anticipation of 
the forthcoming Regent Infection Control disposal. SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 03 Chairman' s Message   Ian Martin
Dividends
The Directors have reviewed the dividend policy in 
light of the disposal programme, with particular
attention to the cash flow needs of the smaller business
- for example to fund brand development expenditure.
The Board believes that dividends should be set so as 
to allow future dividend growth once an appropriate
level of dividend cover has been achieved. Its present
view is that cover of 2.5 times would be appropriate. 
Accordingly , the Board has decided to reduce its
historical levels of distribution and is recommending 
a final dividend of 4.2p - 50 per cent of last year' s level. 
T aken with the interim dividend paid on 2 March 
of 3.9 pence, which was not reduced as it was declared
before the medical disposals had been effected,
the total payable for the year would be 8. 1 pence.
The final dividend will be paid on 2 September 2004 
to shareholders on the register on 6 August 2004.
Future direction
As a focused consumer healthcare company , growth 
in the value of our brand portfolio is of paramount
importance to shareholders. Accordingly our strategy 
is to focus on increasing the variable contribution
generated by sales of core brands and, to the extent
consistent with this objective, to reduce the Group' s
cost base.
Sales growth, driven by effective advertising, will be
sought through a concentration on higher margin
products and the development of the Group' s current
portfolio of leading brands such as Durex and Scholl.
The Board therefore intends to maintain the Group' s
advertising and promotional expenditure at broadly its
existing level of 15 to 16 per cent of sales. The simpler
structure of the Group will bring increased focus onto
advertising, promotion and new product development.
Following completion of the proposed disposal,
overheads of the Group will be higher than necessary .
The Board has conducted a detailed review of the
current cost base and has prepared a programme to
reduce overheads, with particular emphasis on central
costs. This will start shortly after the completion of the
Regent disposal but its full impact will not be reflected
in the results before the year ending 31 March 2006.
We estimate that the cash cost of this programme will
be between  15 and  20 million and will be incurred
during the twelve months following completion.
Board
Garry Watts was appointed Chief Executive on 
1 April 2004. He has been with SSL since February
2001 as Group Finance Director and since April 2003
has also been Managing Director of the Group' s
European operations. 
On 12 February 2004, Mike Pilkington, Group 
Supply Chain Director was appointed to the Board.
Mike joined SSL in April 2002, having previously 
been Head of European Distribution and Supply 
Chain Development at Kelloggs.
Subsequent to the year end on 14 April 2004, 
Ian Adamson, previously Managing Director of the
UK and Northern & Eastern Europe, was appointed
to the Board and to the position of Managing Director
of the Group' s European operations. Ian has been with
SSL in a variety of management positions since 1991 . 
Richard Adam joined in November 2003 as Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit
Committee. He is currently Group Finance Director
of Associated British Port Holdings plc.
At the AGM to be held on 20 July , Bernd Beetz and
Tim Howden, both Non-Executive Directors are to
step down from the Board to pursue other business
interests. I would like to thank Bernd and Tim for their
contributions to SSL and wish them well in the future.
Outlook
The current year brings with it certain transitional
service obligations in respect of the medical disposals
which will initially constrain our cost reduction
programme. We do not plan any other activity to
distract us from our objective of growing the value 
of our brand portfolio. The new year has begun
satisfactorily and we believe that the outlook for 
the remainder of the year and beyond is promising.
Ian Martin, Chairman
26 May 2004 SSL International plc Annual Report 2004
Chief Executive's Review
Garry Watts
SSL ' s four priorities:
  Complete medical
disposal programme
  Grow consumer brand
contribution
  Our people
  Challenge the cost base
04 Chief Executive' s Review   Garry Watts
At the time of writing this, I've been an employee
of SSL for a little over three years and Chief Executive
for some two months. The three years have seen a
catharsis and change within the Company and based
upon eight weeks as Chief Executive, I want to see
that change continue.
All new Chief Executives are faced with a range of
choices, opportunities and problems; they are mindful
of the need to set an agenda and aware of the risk
of too quickly choosing an ill considered course.
With that in mind, I set four priorities for SSL in
early April:
  Complete the medical divestitures
  Grow brand contribution
  Re-energise and invigorate our employees
  Challenge the cost base
Let me explain each in turn:
Disposals
Our disposal programme is nearing completion.
Once done we will have sold four businesses for gross
proceeds of approximately  260 million, generated
net cash of approximately  175 million and reduced
our core borrowings to  100 million, (which compares
with c 450 million three years ago).
In this process our employee count has fallen from
7,000 to 4,000. Our manufacturing facilities have fallen
from 20 to 12. In the UK, we are also currently in the
process of condensing our four office locations in
the Northwest of England into one.
The disposals bring with them a number of transitional
service obligations which will run for the majority of
this fiscal year; we will continue to service these whilst
completing the transition of SSL into a focused
consumer healthcare company .
Brand contribution
After the completion of the disposals our focus will be
on growing the value of our retained portfolio of brands
by increasing the variable contribution generated by
sales of our consumer brands, which in 2003/04
amounted to  162.5 million.
Sales growth, driven by effective advertising, will be
sought through a concentration on higher margin
products and the development through innovation
of the Group' s current portfolio of leading brands
such as Durex and Scholl. We intend to maintain the
Company' s advertising and promotional expenditure
at broadly its existing level of 15 to 16 per cent of sales,
and investment in the development of new products
will continue in order to improve the overall product
offering. We believe that investment in these areas,
even for established brand names such as Durex and
Scholl is critical in driving organic sales growth in
a competitive market environment and in the creation
of brand value.