 The Stanley Gibbons Group Limited
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008
2
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present the results 
of the Stanley Gibbons Group Limited for the year ended 31 
December 2008. Against the backdrop of a global economic 
crisis, I am satisfied with the performance of both the Group's 
businesses and the Senior Management team in 2008.
The outcome for the year demonstrates the resilience of  
the Group's businesses based on the strength of our brands 
and reputation for fair dealing. During times of recession, 
only soundly based businesses survive.  Stanley Gibbons is the 
oldest, biggest, most well known and most respected brand in 
its field and consequently is in an excellent position to prevail 
through difficult times and emerge stronger in a world where 
our competitors may have been severely damaged.
The adverse movement on sales in the second half of our 
financial year was a direct consequence of global economic 
events. Ironically, at a time when the investment products we 
offer provided a solution to investors, we found that the levels 
of  apprehension and uncertainty on investment generally 
temporarily discouraged potential clients from using our 
products.
However, recent trading is showing a relatively high level 
of demand for our investment products, which benefit from 
the current negligible interest rates in most currencies offered 
by banks, making the secured returns from investing in our 
collectibles more attractive.
We also derive additional support from the fact that 
the value of rare stamps performed well as an asset class 
during previous recessions which, if repeated,  illustrates their 
benefits in terms of diversification from traditional financial 
investment. 
As a result of all of the above, the Board is confident 
about the Group's prospects for 2009 and beyond and 
believes the Group is well placed to continue to grow both 
sales and profits.
Financials
Turnover for the year was  19.4 million, down 4% on the 
previous year. Profit before tax and before exceptional 
charges was  3.7 million, down 18% on the preceding year.
Earnings per share were 13.22 pence, only 2% down on 
the previous year earnings per share reported of 13.46 pence, 
due to the benefit of a lower tax rate. This lower effective rate 
of tax should continue in future years.
In our trading statement released on 20 January 2009, we 
referred to  3.4 million in value of sales transactions entered 
into towards the close of 2008 on extended credit terms to 
several key investment clients. Since these sales were on terms 
which included a 12 month buyback guarantee, the Board 
agreed it was more appropriate to recognise this revenue and 
the associated profit into 2009, when these guarantees will 
have expired and the outcome is certain. This is in accordance 
with applicable accounting standards. If the sales recognised 
into 2009 are included, underlying sales would have shown 
growth of 13% and profit before tax would have been  4.7 
million, 4% above the prior year.
Investment clients have paid a 10% cash deposit on these 
agreements and the Board does not expect the guarantees to 
be called. Notwithstanding this, the Board considered that the 
recognition of the revenue into 2009 is prudent and in line 
with best market practice, even though the subject items of 
those sales remain  in the possession of Stanley Gibbons, and, 
hence, there is no credit risk associated with the underlying 
contracts.
Dividend
Your Board is pleased to recommend to Shareholders, for 
approval at the forthcoming AGM, a final dividend of 2.75 
pence per share, which would produce a total dividend from 
2008 earnings of 4.75 pence, an increase of 6% over 2007 . 
The Board's progressive dividend policy is maintained, 
covered almost 3 times by earnings in 2008, having regard to 
projected cash flow requirements in 2009 and beyond.
The Board has authorisation from Shareholders to 
purchase up to 3.7 million (approximately 15%) of its own 
Shares. The Board proposes the renewal of this authority 
at the forthcoming AGM. Following recent changes to 
Jersey Company Law, it will also be proposing to make the 
necessary alterations to its Articles of Association at the 
forthcoming AGM in order to facilitate the Company's ability 
to buyback its own Shares into Treasury, in line with UK 
practice. Whilst doing so, we are taking the opportunity to 
update the Company's Articles more generally.
Outlook
Recent trading is showing a good level of demand for our 
investment products after the successive reductions in interest 
rates. Furthermore, the relative weakness in the value of 
Sterling against most other major currencies presents some 
exciting marketing opportunities to grow substantially sales 
internationally to US Dollar and Euro based investors.
Although we are experiencing a slight adverse impact 
on sales in the lower value item segment of our business, this 
represents a small part of our total profits. More importantly, 
the market in rare stamps continues to be strong, evidenced 
by the high value of realisations from recent auction sales.
We have invested substantially during 2008 in our 
inventory of high-end quality stamps and rare signatures. 
Inventories of such rare items are an appreciating asset 
although are reported at historic cost. Despite our confidence 
in the market and need to invest in the right kind of material 
to support future sales growth expectations of investment 
products, the Board has decided to exercise prudence in 
respect to inventory levels and does not intend to increase 
inventories above the current level in the foreseeable 
future.
We were successful during the year in growing investment 
sales to clients based outside the UK, benefiting from our 
seminars and exhibition attendances which facilitated the 
recruitment of new high calibre trading partners in the 
Asia-Pacific and Middle East. The relationships we have 
formed with such partners provide us with a professional 
network from which to distribute our investment products 
internationally at a very low cost.
The biggest challenge we face in the sale of our various 
Chairman's Statement
SG ANREP 2008 Book 1.indb   2 19/03/2009   15:46:26 The Stanley Gibbons Group Limited
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008
3
Chairman's Statement
investment products is to overcome the unwillingness of the 
majority of financial institutions and Independent Financial 
Advisers to promote an unregulated investment product.
 A solution to this problem is to launch a regulated 
investment fund. During 2008, we had various discussions 
with banks and fund managers to establish their interest 
in establishing a rare stamp investment fund under our 
management. Our aim is to achieve a successful fund launch 
during 2009. To achieve this aim, we intend to recruit a full time 
executive with experience in the Financial Services industry, 
and with specific expertise in the launch and distribution 
of investment funds; skills that are widely available in the 
Channel Islands.
Our most effective sales technique is currently the 
delivery of sales copy to our e-mail database. Sales generated 
through this route in 2008 were  3.3 million or 17% of total 
sales. Recognising the importance of this route to market, we 
focused on growing the size of our e-mail database in 2008 
through online marketing channels. As a result, we have more 
than doubled the size of our investment e-mail database. This 
provides an excellent base to facilitate future growth in 2009 
and beyond and forms the critical component in the success 
of our marketing strategy.
We are particularly pleased with the sales growth 
achieved in historical signatures and celebrity autographs 
in 2008.  Sales growth was generated through successful 
marketing, extensive media coverage and the development 
of rare signatures as an alternative investment.
We have invested in our long term growth prospects, the 
cost of which has been charged to this year's profit and loss 
account, including the costs associated with the recruitment 
of key personnel, database building and those associated with 
the development and redesign of our Website. The benefits 
of this investment will be harvested in future years.
I am pleased to announce that on 23 January 2009, 
Stanley Gibbons acquired Philatelic Exporter  from 
Heritage Studios Limited. Philatelic Exporter is the world's 
market leading trade philatelic magazine and will benefit 
from our long established expertise in magazine publishing 
and distribution to continue to go from strength to strength 
under a newly recruited Senior Executive. With the support 
of the marketing and sales expertise of Stanley Gibbons, the 
magazine will reach extensive global audiences and provide 
an improved service to readers and advertisers. 
Board
Due to the increase in growth opportunities progress in the 
implementation of our business plan is being hampered 
by a lack of Senior Executive resource. As a result, we are 
delighted to  have recently appointed Donal Duff as Chief 
Operating Officer. His appointment will help us to accelerate 
the execution of our business plan and projected growth in 
profits.  It allows our Chief Executive to concentrate on the 
development of new business opportunities and to focus his 
efforts on those high value areas of the business where his 
depth of experience can have greatest effect.
We are currently reviewing the possibility of separating 
Stanley Gibbons Investments from the Stanley Gibbons 
Group. A dedicated Executive Board of our Investment 
business could provide the independence and focus necessary 
to develop into this new market, which we believe holds 
extensive opportunities that are currently under-exploited. 
Such segregation should also enable Stanley Gibbons 
Investments to obtain appropriate financial regulatory 
approval thus opening up our investment services to a much 
larger marketplace. 
The current period of restructuring is necessary to ensure 
that your Board provides the resource capable of fulfilling 
its role in the development of the Group and in maximising 
the return from the wealth of business opportunities at our 
disposal.
Stakeholders
I would like to thank all our colleagues in the Group for their 
hard work and contribution during the year. I also extend my 
gratitude to other Stakeholders associated with our activities 
who all support and believe in the strength and potential of 
the biggest brand name in the world of philately.
Martin Bralsford
Chairman, 19 March 2009
Outlook (continued)
SG ANREP 2008 Book 1.indb   3 19/03/2009   15:46:26