 The Stanley Gibbons Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010
2
Once	 again,	 I	 can	 report	 another	 year	 of	 growth	 in	 sales	 and	 profits	
of	 the	 Group;	 2010	 was	 an	 important	 period	 in	 our	 longer	 term	
strategy	 of	 creating	 the	 biggest	 collectibles	 business	 in	 the	 world.	
Stanley	 Gibbons	 is,	 arguably,	 already	 the	 biggest	 collectibles	 brand	
name	 in	 the	 world.	 In	 simple	 terms,	 our	 objective	 is	 to	 create	 a	
higher	 return	 from	 this,	 our	 principal	 asset,	 to	 generate	 much	
more	 profits.	 With	 a	 huge	 market	 to	 play	 for	 and	 a	 rising	 ambition	
amongst	 wealthy	 individuals	 to	 own	 tangible	 assets	 with	 relatively	
stable	 values	 as	 a	 means	 of	 wealth	 protection,	 the	 Board	 is	 both	
confident	 and	 excited	 about	 the	 future	 of	 your	 business.
Primary	 focus	 in	 2010	 was	 in	 longer	 term	 development	 projects,	
particularly	 the	 substantial	 modernisation	 of	 399	 Strand,	 the	
development	 of	 the	 Group's	 websites	 and		 activation	 of	 our	 Digital	
Asset	 Management	 system.	 The	 financial	 benefits	 of	 these	 projects	
are	 expected	 to	 be	 seen	 in	 future	 years.
Despite	 the	 higher	 revenue	 expenditure	 on	 business	
development	 in	 the	 current	 year	 and	 the	 additional	 burden	 this	
placed	 on	 management,	 the	 strength	 of	 the	 market	 of	 collectibles,	
together	 with	 success	 from	 the	 delivery	 of	 elements	 of	 our	 strategy	
to	 date,	 has	 resulted	 in	 another	 year	 of	 growth	 delivered	 to	
shareholders.
Financials
Turnover	 for	 the	 year	 was	  26.4m,	 over	 13%	 up	 on	 the	 previous	
year	 and	 profit	 before	 tax	 was	  4.3m,	 up	 5%.	 Underlying	 profit	
before	 tax,	 excluding	 one-off	 exceptional	 charges,	 was	  4.5m,	 up	
just	 over	 8%.
Earnings	 per	 share	 were	 15.22p	 (2009:	 14.70p),	 representing	 an	
increase	 of	 4%.	 Adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share,	 excluding	 exceptional	
costs,	 were	 15.69p,	 up	 7%.
Your	 Board's	 view	 is	 that	 adjusted	 profits,	 when	 excluding	
exceptional	 charges,	 present	 a	 more	 meaningful	 presentation	
of	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 for	 the	 year	 relative	 to	 the	
preceding	 years.
Dividend
Your	 Board	 is	 pleased	 to	 recommend	 to	 Shareholders,	 for	 their	
approval	 at	 the	 next	 AGM,	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 3.25p	 per	 share	
(2009:	 3p).	 This		 would	 give	 a	 total	 dividend	 from	 2010	 earnings	
of	 5.5p	 (2009:	 5p),	 an	 increase	 of	 10%	 over	 2009.	 This,	 if	 approved,	
produces	 a	 dividend	 covered	 2.75	 times	 by	 earnings	 in	 2010.	
Our	 proposed	 dividend	 increase	 for	 2010	 is	 based	 on	 growth	 in	
underlying	 profits	 delivered	 but	 takes	 into	 account	 our	 substantial	
investment	 in	 capital	 expenditure	 during	 the	 year	 on	 projects	
supporting	 future	 profit	 growth.	
Outlook
During	 the	 past	 three	 years	 we	 have	 invested	 substantially	 in	
our	 senior	 management	 and	 IT	 systems,	 both	 of	 which	 we	 see	
as	 essential	 to	 delivering	 the	 levels	 of	 growth	 in	 the	 future.	
Furthermore,	 over	 the	 past	 two	 years,	 we	 have	 committed	 to	 a	
larger	 marketing	 spend	 to	 recruit	 new	 high	 net	 worth	 clients	 and	
towards	 developing	 a	 database	 with	 a	 substantial	 lifetime	 value	
to	 the	 business.	 We	 look	 forward	 to	 the	 coming	 year	 as	 we	 begin	
to	 reap	 further	 rewards	 from	 the	 implementation	 of	 our	 strategy.
The	most	important	of	these	developments	is	the	long	
awaited	re-launch	of	our	substantially	developed	websites	
this	year.	The	new	website	for	Frasers	autographs,	www.
frasersautographs.com,	 was	 launched	 in	 February	 2011	 and	
has	 already	 reported	 an	 encouraging	 uplift	 in	 online	 revenues	
benefiting	 from	 enhanced	 usability	 and	 dedicated	 e-commerce	
marketing	 initiatives.	 The	 principal	 components	 of	 our	 primary	
website,	 www.stanleygibbons.com,	 will	 be	 launched	 shortly.		 The	
online	 trading	 platform,	 which	 is	 an	 extension	 of	 the	 auction	
functionality,	 will	 be	 launched	 in	 the	 second	 quarter	 of	 this	 year.
We	 intend	 to	 build	 further	 on	 last	 year	 from	 our	 successful	
entry	 into	 the	 Chinese	 stamp	 market.	 This	 is	 the	 biggest	 stamp	
market	 in	 the	 world	 and	 an	 untapped	 opportunity	 to	 grow	 sales	
and	 profits	 in	 a	 new	 geographical	 area.	 We	 will	 be	 investigating	
the	 potential	 benefits	 from	 opening	 a	 Stanley	 Gibbons	 investment	
office	 in	 Hong	 Kong,	 being	 the	 primary	 location	 for	 Chinese	 region	
philatelic	 dealing.	
Our	 forays	 into	 China	 have	 confirmed	 to	 us	 the	 power	 of	
the	 Stanley	 Gibbons	 brand.	 Our	 brand	 name	 is	 internationally	
recognised	 and	 our	 brand	 heritage	 is	 perceived	 worldwide	
to	 equate	 to	 integrity,	 honesty	 and	 expertise.	 This	 illustrates	
the	 potential	 for	 Stanley	 Gibbons	 to	 capitalise	 on	 the	 brand's	
immediate	 recognition	 through	 penetration	 into	 new	 geographical	
markets.
The	 largest	 and	 most	 obvious	 market	 in	 this	 respect	 is	 the	 US,	
which	 still	 represents	 the	 biggest	 collectibles	 market	 in	 the	 world.	
We	 intend	 to	 build	 our	 presence	 in	 the	 US	 later	 this	 year	 with	 a	
view	 to	 creating	 new	 sales	 and	 distribution	 channels	 across	 our	
entire	 product	 offering.
Our	 investment	 office	 in	 Jersey	 generated	  1.8m	 sales	 in	 2010	
from	 a	 standing	 start	 in	 2009,	 which	 included	  0.7m	 sales	 to	 new	
investment	 clients	 recruited	 in	 Jersey.	 This	 is	 a	 relatively	 low	 risk	
means	 of	 growth,	 generating	 a	 strong	 return	 on	 capital.	 During	
the	 current	 year,	 we	 will	 consider	 the	 opening	 of	 new	 investment	
offices	 in	 Switzerland	 which	 we	 believe	 is	 another	 market	 ideal	
for	 the	 promotion	 of	 our	 investment	 offering.
The	 long	 awaited	 launch	 of	 a	 rare	 stamp	 investment	 fund	
remains	 on	 our	 agenda.	 The	 fund	 will	 only	 be	 launched	 when	 we	
are	 confident	 that	 we	 can	 both	 deliver	 a	 competitive	 return	 to	
investors	 in	 the	 fund	 at	 the	 same	 time	 as	 making	 an	 acceptable	
profit	 for	 Stanley	 Gibbons	 management	 activity,	 commensurate	 to	
our	 effort	 and	 the	 specialist	 service	 we	 would	 provide.	 We	 continue	
the	 setting	 up	 of	 a	 suitable	 fund	 structure,	 with	 a	 select	 number	
of	 ultra	 high	 net	 worth	 individuals	 introduced	 to	 us	 by	 a	 highly	
respected	 financial	 institution	 in	 Jersey.	
We	 were	 delighted	 with	 the	 recent	 acquisitions	 of	 the	 businesses	
of	 M	 &	 N	 Haworth	 and	 the	 Benham	 Group,	 both	 of	 which	 further	
strengthen	 our	 brand	 offering	 delivering	 additional	 predictable	
revenue	 and	 profit	 streams	 in	 future	 years.
The	 Royal	 Wedding	 taking	 place	 in	 April	 2011	 will	 provide	 a	
one-off	 benefit	 to	 the	 revenues	 and	 profits	 of	 the	 Benham	 business	
this	 year	 through	 sales	 of	 associated	 first	 day	 covers	 and	 other	
commemorative	 collectible	 products.	 This	 timely	 event,	 marking	
the	 most	 exciting	 Royal	 event	 in	 recent	 years,	 will	 accelerate	 the	
delivery	 of	 the	 return	 on	 our	 investment	 in	 this	 acquisition.
Our	 strategy	 combines	 delivering	 organic	 growth	 with	 growth	
through	 making	 suitable	 acquisitions	 where	 we	 believe	 they	 would	
strengthen	 and	 compliment	 our	 brand.	 We	 are	 currently	 reviewing	
a	 number	 of	 target	 acquisitions	 in	 both	 rare	 stamps	 and	 in	 other	
collectibles	 with	 similar	 characteristics	 such	 as	 rare	 coins,	 medals	
and	 first	 edition	 books.
The	 values	 of	 rare	 stamps	 and	 signatures	 have	 proved	 resilient	
yet	 again	 in	 2010,	 highlighted	 by	 an	 increase	 of	 7%	 in	 both	 the	
GB30	 Stamp	 Rarities	 Index	 and	 Autograph100	 index	 in	 the	
year.	 We	 therefore	 remain	 confident	 in	 the	 defensive	 qualities	
rare	 stamps	 and	 signatures	 provide	 as	 a	 diversification	 tool	
in	 a	 class	 of	 non-correlating	 assets.	 This	 view	 is	 supported	 by	
authoritative	 academic	 research.		 Consequently,	 we	 were	 happy	
to	 increase	 our	 investment	 in	 our	 stockholding	 during	 the	 year,	
which	 provides	 a	 better	 return	 for	 shareholders	 than	 building	
up	 low	 yielding	 surplus	 cash	 balances.	 The	 increased	 value	 of	
our	 stockholding	 is	 primarily	 in	 exceptional	 and	 rare	 collectible	
trophy 	items	and	top	quality	rare	stamps	providing	the	
backbone	 to	 support	 future	 growth.	 Furthermore,	 such	 assets	
generally	 appreciate	 over	 time,	 although	 remain	 prudently	
Chairman's Statement
SGANREP 31d2010.indd   2 29/03/2011   10:21:38 The Stanley Gibbons Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010
3
Chairman's Statement
stated	 in	 our	 balance	 sheet	 at	 historic	 cost,	 not	 market	 value.
People
Our	 employees	 are	 even	 more	 important	 than	 our	 stockholding.	 	
Their	 widely	 recognised	 integrity,	 honesty	 and	 expertise	 define	 the	
values	 associated	 with	 our	 brand	 and	 the	 service	 we	 provide	 to	 our	
clients.	 On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board,	 I	 wish	 to	 extend	 my	 thanks	 to	 all	 of	
them	 for	 their	 commitment	 during	 the	 year	 and	 their	 contribution	
towards	 the	 continued	 growth	 in	 sales	 and	 profitability	 and	
development	 of	 the	 business	 in	 line	 with	 our	 strategy.
Board
Your	 Company's	 Board	 was	 further	 strengthened	 this	 year	 by	 the	
appointment	 of	 John	 Byfield	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	 Director	 in	 April	
2010,	 replacing	 John	 Wright	 who	 had	 served	 term	 as	 a	 Director.	
His	 contribution	 to	 the	 enhancement	 of	 our	 strategy	 together	 with	
the	 benefits	 from	 tapping	 in	 to	 his	 network	 of	 contacts	 and	 legal	
expertise	 has	 already	 generated	 new	 opportunities	 for	 the	 Group.
Martin Bralsford
Chairman,	 24	 March	 2011
Outlook (continued)
SGANREP 31d2010.indd   3 29/03/2011   10:21:38