 6
Stratex made significant 
progress in all areas of 
operation during the 2011
financial year.
6
Christopher Hall, Chairman
Stratex made significant progress in 
all areas of operation during the 2011 
financial year.  In Turkey, we have created 
an advanced portfolio of development 
projects with experienced mine 
developers, and in Stratex East Africa we 
are now ready to pursue an aggressive 
gold exploration programme.  Towards 
the end of the year Stratex also acquired 
a series of West African licenced 
properties for future delineation work.
I make no apologies for repeating 
that Stratex is first and foremost an 
exploration and development company.  
We have neither the skills nor the desire 
to become constructors and operators 
of mines and we remain focused on 
exploration for major mineral deposits, 
principally gold.  We aim to create value 
for shareholders using experienced 
partners to develop our discoveries.
Mineral exploration is characterised 
by high risks and potentially high 
rewards.  The majority of exploration 
programmes undertaken around the 
world do not result in economic mines.  
Nevertheless by closely monitoring all 
our activities, risks can be mitigated 
and each successive stage of every 
programme is carefully reviewed 
to ensure that the potential reward 
justifies the additional investment.
This has been the rationale behind many 
of our joint ventures where we seek to 
share, and sometimes eliminate, our 
risk by bringing in a partner.  In the early 
days the terms were very much dictated 
by our partners, usually a major mining 
company.  In the last couple of years, as 
our success has become clear and our 
expertise better appreciated, we have 
been able to negotiate progressively 
better terms enabling Stratex to retain a 
greater share of the potential rewards.
In some cases we are now carried, 
without further expenditure, to 
the completion of a feasibility 
study; in others we are carried 
right through into production.
At the year end, Stratex had discovered 
some 1.5 million oz of gold, mainly oxide 
which is generally easier to process.  
Since the year end we have announced 
an increased resource of over 1.0 million 
oz at  ks t, bringing the Company's 
discovery total to 2.26 million oz, a very 
creditable result over the 7 years since it 
was formed.  The costs involved in this 
have been considerable and would have 
been difficult, if not impossible, but for 
the joint ventures which have brought 
in over  5.3 million to cover exploration 
Chairman's statement 7 Discovering the future  |  Stratex International plc Annual Report 2011
spending. Despite that inevitable dilution 
of interest, we have retained an equity 
interest in some 1.6 million ounces. 
Our explorationists are among the 
best in the business and this is clearly 
backed up by the confidence of our joint 
venture partners who have chosen to 
take an interest in our projects which we 
generally manage on their behalf.  They 
include AngloGold Ashanti in partnership 
with the Thani Group from Dubai, Teck 
Resources, Antofagasta and Centerra, 
not forgetting our Turkish operating 
partners NTF and Bahar Mining.
Not only have our joint venture 
partners financed the work on the 
ground, they have also supported the 
company by purchasing equity.  In 
2011 we raised  4.3 million from our 
partners in share placements.  Thani-
Ashanti and AngloGold Ashanti have 
continued to show their support 
by following their interests through 
subsequent placements, including 
following the Silvrex acquisition.
In Turkey we now have three projects 
rapidly maturing to a point where real 
value can become apparent.  At Inlice, 
with a modest total oxide gold reserve of 
almost 60,000 oz, our partners NTF are 
managing the project to production with 
a 55% interest.  We have appointed GBM, 
a respected UK engineering firm, to act 
as owner's engineer for the development 
and construction and look forward to 
rapid progress once the environmental 
permits are granted.  A review of the 
feasibility study is in hand and we look to 
an improvement in project economics.
NTF did not wish to commence work on 
our second production project,  Alt ntepe, 
until Inlice was in production.  We 
therefore secured a second operating 
partner in Bahar Mining, a private 
Turkish company with experience of 
operating gold mines. Bahar Mining is 
earning a 55% interest in the 490,000 
oz oxide and transition gold project by 
financing the project to production with 
no further calls for cash from Stratex.  
Once in production, they will receive 
80% of cashflow until their investment 
is repaid, reverting to 55% thereafter.
 ks t is developing into a major 
discovery with the announcement, after 
the year end, of a resource exceeding 
1.0 million oz.  Our partners, Centerra, 
have earned a 50% interest and have 
exercised their option to earn a total of 
70% by investing a further US$3.0 million.  
The recent outstanding drilling results 
at Orta am North Zone, with multiple 
intersections of 200 m plus at over 2.0 
g/t gold, are very exciting.  Importantly, 
surface indications and early drilling 
of the zone were not encouraging, 
highlighting the importance of further 
work on other mineralised targets where 
early results were inconclusive. We 
remain optimistic of further success.
There has also been a significant amount 
of drilling in Ethiopia. At Megenta, 
our first discovery within the Afar joint 
venture, our partners Thani-Ashanti 
have completed their 3,000 m drill 
commitment. As expected, mineralisation 
was intersected beneath the surface 
structures, but textures and gold grades 
indicated that drilling had not tested 
the system deep enough to hit the 
targeted boiling zone believed to be an 
important gold concentration mechanism.  
Thani-Ashanti have commissioned an 
aeromagnetic survey and are expected 
to resume deeper drilling to complete 
their US$3.0 million earn in for 50%.
At our 95%-owned Blackrock programme 
we are well into a 5,000 m drill 
programme, concentrating initially on 
the Theodore and Baker structures in the 
Black Water zone.  Drilling commenced 
in the south on weak epithermal quartz 
veins and progressed towards the 
north where the structures thicken 
markedly.  Early indications from this 
drill programme are very encouraging. 
Furthermore, regional helicopter 
reconnaissance has resulted in additional 
discoveries of gold-bearing epithermal 
veins. More ground has been acquired 
and other applications are still pending.
Stratex now has the best land position 
in a large, highly prospective epithermal 
gold province in the Afar Region of 
Ethiopia and Djibouti, which we believe 
has similar potential to the Santa Cruz 
district of Patagonia, where over 40 
million oz have been discovered over 
the last 20 years.  Exploration over large 
areas for this style of epithermal gold 
deposit is capital intensive with a typical 
2.5 Moz plus deposit such as Cerro Negro 
requiring millions of dollars of exploration 
funding.  However, discovery costs can 
still be well below US$100/oz, which is 
attractive at current gold prices.  Stratex 
will need to invest significant amounts in 
Ethiopia in future years if it is to do justice 
to the mineral potential, and your Board is 
actively considering the options for this.
Stratex had taken a modest position in 
PLUS-listed Sheba Exploration by way 
of an option fee on its Shehagne gold 
prospect in the Arabian-Nubian Shield, 
northern Ethiopia.  During the year Stratex 
earned a 60% interest in the project, 
having completed a 1,000 m drilling 
programme.  At the same time, Centamin, 
the Egyptian gold mining company, 
made a successful bid for Sheba which 
resulted in a gain of  527,199 on the 
Stratex investment.  Stratex has now 
met all of its commitments under the 
agreement with Sheba and is in a position 
to vest 60% into the Shehagne project.
In December 2011 Stratex completed 
a successful offer to acquire Silvrex 
Limited, (subsequently renamed Stratex 
West Africa Ltd), a private company 
with mineral properties in Senegal 
and Mauritania.  The terms involved a 
modest front-end payment in Stratex 
shares and a further payment in cash 
or shares at our option, if over 500,000 
oz of gold is discovered in any of the 
five licence areas acquired within three 
years.  We believe we can achieve the 
same levels of success in West Africa as 
we have in Turkey and East Africa with 
a combination of superior exploration 
skills, risk management and industry 
connections.  I am pleased to welcome 
the Silvrex managing director, John 
Cole-Baker, as a director of Stratex with 
particular responsibility for West Africa.  
John is a civil engineer with a wealth of 
high-level experience in the region.
Following an extremely successful 
2011, Stratex has set itself even more 
challenges for the year ahead.  I look 
forward to news flow on drilling in Turkey 
and Ethiopia, resource updates at  ks t, 
progress towards production from Inlice 
and Alt ntepe and commencement of a 
programme in West Africa.  The Board 
is considering a number of options 
to secure the necessary finance for 
our activities.  You can be assured 
that the enhancement of shareholder 
value is our prime objective, which 
we are determined to deliver.
Lastly, I would like to pay tribute to 
our dedicated team of geologists and 
support staff who often work in the 
most challenging conditions to help 
Stratex achieve its objectives.  On behalf 
of the Board I thank them, and you 
our shareholders for your continuing 
support, as we embark on what looks like 
another exciting year for the company.
Christopher Hall
Chairman