  -2- 
STRONTIUM PLC  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
I am pleased to announce that in the financial year that ended 30 June 2007 there were improvements 
across all the operating businesses of the Group. 
 
The past year has been one of evolution for Strontium in which constituents for further growth were 
developed, including the enlargement of the Strontium Alliance, an increase in management resources 
and the acquisition of Miad UK Limited (Miad ). 
 
Financial Highlights 
 
Sales increased year on year by approximately 50% to  824,204 (2006:  552,019). The loss on 
ordinary activities before taxation was reduced by 33% to  146,868 (2006:  217,911). In my view, 
any loss is disappointing but I am pleased that the business continues to expand and this is a good 
result given the demands on and the other achievements of our small management team. 
 
Strontium has kept its costs within the budget set for the financial year. 
 
The Group's balance sheet strengthened during the year by the issue of 1,140,000 new 2p ordinary 
shares for total proceeds of  300,960.  A further 218,182 shares were issued at a value of  60,000 as 
consideration for the new business acquired during the year.  Shareholders' funds amounted to 
 992,736 (2006:  778,644).  
 
The issue of ordinary shares for cash and for the acquisition combined with a rigorous policy of 
controlling cash has enabled the Group to increase its cash reserves to  651,302 (2006:  462,028) 
despite operational losses and the acquisition of Miad.  
 
Acquisitions and Disposals 
 
Following a review of the business in November 2006, the Board decided to sell the Collectpoint 
business as it was not part of the core business and to focus on Professional Services. The sale of the 
Collectpoint assets was completed in January 2007. 
 
In April 2007, consistent with our strategy (see below), Strontium acquired Miad, a UK based training 
and education organisation specialising in management training for doctors. Over its 10 years of 
existence Miad has been very successful in building a reputable brand in the market of NHS training 
and affords Strontium with an opportunity to expand it revenues and profits.  
 
The consideration for Miad was a cash payment on completion of  165,699 together with the 
allotment of 218,182 ordinary shares at 27.5 pence per share ( 60,000) for the entire issued share 
capital of Miad. A refund of the purchase consideration of  38,738 has been agreed as a consequence 
of net assets at completion being less that the agreed amount; this makes the net cash consideration 
 126,961. The Company also agreed a further earn out payment  to a maximum of  187,500 (to be 
satisfied equally in shares and cash) based on profits for the period to June 2010; the Directors best 
estimate of the amount payable is  108,000 which has been reflected in the Accounts.  
 
Again, this acquisition demonstrated the value of the Company's listing on AIM; it enabled the 
Company to issue its own shares for part of the consideration, thus saving cash resources. 
 
The integration of the acquisition into the Group is now complete. 
   -3- 
STRONTIUM PLC  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (Continued) 
 
Strategy 
 
Strontium is a professional services group with the objective to grow by developing existing 
businesses and by acquiring equity holdings in small, high growth professional services businesses. 
Following the review of the business, the Board decided to refine the Company's strategy and to build 
4 operating divisions, viz: 
 
Training and Development  - trading through Miad 
Executive Services   - trading through Executive Development Consultants Ltd (EDC ) 
Business Intelligence   - trading through Aspect Information Management Ltd (Aspect ) 
Strontium Alliance          - trading through Strontium plc 
 
The Directors are encouraged by the high levels of interest that the strategy adopted by Strontium is 
attracting from investors, the media and prospective Alliance members. 
 
Business Environment 
 
Strontium operates in a marketplace that has a small number of large consultancy organisations and a 
myriad of small firms. 
 
Many small firms are unable to deal with larger firms or break into larger markets due to the firms' 
perceived lack of management experience and the necessary understanding of how to do business with 
large and multinational entities. 
 
Business Review and Principal Activities 
 
The Group's focus is on improving efficiency and profitability of both its corporate clients and 
Alliance members. 
 
Training and Development 
 
Miad's post acquisition performance was a loss of  7,510, this being a traditionally quiet period for 
the Company as it follows immediately after the end of the NHS budget year. Historically, Miad was 
undercapitalised and lacked a clear business plan for sustainable growth. Post-acquisition, a plan for 
expansion has been developed for the current financial year. The Directors anticipate this business 
will make a positive contribution to the growth of the Training and Development Division. We are 
pleased with the progress that has been made since acquisition.  
 
Business Intelligence 
 
The assimilation of The Big Word  business into Aspect has expanded the Division into temporary 
multilingual personnel for external research agencies and increased its margins on our own research 
projects. This has lead to a sales increase of 51% over the previous year and 4% points improvement 
in margins on research assignments. 
 
I am delighted that Toyota Financial Services recently signed a 3 year deal with Aspect for  750,000; 
this confirms our ability to win substantial research projects from blue chip clients. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   -4- 
STRONTIUM PLC  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (Continued) 
 
Executive Services  
 
 
EDC turnover grew by 73% to  196,623 (2006:  113,239).  The loss was reduced to  1,995 (2006: 
 18,019). 
 
In the past, EDC has relied on external consultants to add capacity when required. This strategy has 
been reviewed and the decision taken to employ up to 4 coaches dedicated to EDC. Although this will 
require short term investment the Board believes this will build a better platform for longer term 
development of the business. (See Personnel section below.) 
 
The Strontium Alliance  
 
The Strontium Alliance is a community of up to 100 professional service enterprises, each using the 
complementary skills of other Alliance Members to create revenue generating opportunities with third 
party clients.  
 
Strontium aims to help Members to win contracts from large and multinational businesses, providing 
the necessary management, financial, sales and marketing skills, as well as introductions to key 
decision makers. 
 
The Alliance has grown to 28 member companies. The first Alliance conference took place in May 
2007 and was well received. More meetings will be held this coming year and we anticipate adding 
further members. 
 
The Alliance has yet to generate fee income for Strontium, however it has contributed to the 
awareness of the brand and opportunities should increase as membership grows. The Strontium 
Alliance also increases the number of business opportunities and the number of able consultants 
available to Strontium.  
 
Strontium plc 
 
In April 2007, Bishopsgate Communications Limited was appointed as financial PR consultant to the 
Group.  
 
The Group has made some investments during the year: 
 
  to overhaul the website to reflect the focus on the 4 Divisions 
  to remodel the Members section of the Alliance site, 
  to raise the profile of Strontium using targeted PR (9 articles published since 1 April 2007) 
  to hold the first Alliance conference and  
  advertising to recruit new management for 2 Divisions.  
 
During the year, one small source of revenue to Strontium plc ceased when the assets of Collectpoint 
were sold. 
 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
 
Risks are formally reviewed by the Board and appropriate measures put in place to mitigate them.  
 
The Group's performance depends largely on the organisation of and performance of its staff and is 
heavily dependant on the continued participation of David Barker, the Managing Director. Key roles 
are regularly reviewed to ensure that these positions are filled by personnel with appropriate skills. 
 
   -5- 
STRONTIUM PLC  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (Continued) 
 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties (Continued) 
 
The success of the Group is based on the Directors' ability to identify and attract new Alliance 
members, acquisitions and the availability of funds to support business growth.  
 
The larger corporations to whom the Alliance members intend to market their services may have 
financial, organisational or legal requirements that the Alliance may not be capable of meeting.  
 
Key Performance indicators 
 
One of the Group's key objectives is to manage growth without significantly increasing fixed cost. It 
manages this through using a network of freelance consultants engaged to work on specific projects.  
 
The profits on all significant contracts are reviewed on a project by project basis to ensure anticipated 
margins are achieved. Contributions from contracts are shown at the Profit and Loss account as Gross 
Profit. 
 
At this stage in the Group's growth it is not considered meaningful to provide further analysis. 
 
Personnel 
 
The Board appointed Peter Hogarth as a non-executive, independent director in December 2006. A 
former Partner in KPMG, Executive Director of the London Stock Exchange and with 15 years as a 
senior executive coach working with the boards of many publicly listed companies, Peter brings 
welcome additional knowledge to the Board. 
 
I am pleased to announce the appointment of Ross Broadbent as Divisional Director of Business 
Intelligence as of 1st October 2007. His principal responsibility will be to develop and grow this 
Division. 
 
Julie Wootton joined EDC on 3rd September 2007, as Senior Executive Coach, to win new business, 
manage Corporate Client relationships and deliver Coaching Programmes - including leadership and 
top team development at Executive and Board level. 
 
I would like to thank David Barker, our Managing Director, his very able management team and all 
our staff for their contributions during this past challenging year. 
 
Outlook 
 
The Board believes the outlook and business environment remains favourable for the areas of 
Professional Services within which the group operates and is confident about the Group's prospects 
for the current year. The sales team has ensured that our order book is significantly greater than at the 
same time last year. 
  
The investment in senior personnel is expected to produce results in the second half of the current 
year. 
 
The continued growth of membership of the Alliance will enable the group to expand its services as 
opportunities arise with clients and will keep the group well placed to make the acquisition of rapidly 
expanding smaller companies. 
 
M W Metcalfe 
2 October 2007 