 In October 2012, the Company was granted 
a waiver by the Ministry of Industry and New
T echnologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan
(MINT ) relating to the Republic of
Kazakhstan's pre-emptive right to acquire the
Ordinary Shares of the Company, following the
investment by SAPC, as required by
Kazakhstan's Subsoil Use Law. In December
2012, the Company listed on the Kazakhstan
Stock Exchange (KASE ) and the conversion
of the SAPC loan notes was completed in
February 2013 with the issue of 174,476,283
Ordinary Shares to SAPC, resulting in it
becoming the owner of approximately 51% 
of the issued share capital of the Company.
Throughout the year the Company focused 
on the completion of its Feasibility Study and
further sales of Direct Application Rock
(DAR ). The other strategic development was
the completion of verification and infill drilling of
historical drill hole database, which was
necessary for the finalisation of the resource
estimate for 100% of Chilisai licence area. The
drilling was requested by the Company's
geological contractor - Wardell Armstrong
International (WAI ) - in accordance with
JORC procedures. As a result, the resource
estimate was completed during Q2 2013,
demonstrating total contained P
2
O
5
increasing
by 130 % compared with the previous
resource estimate for 40% of the Licence Area.
The completion of this drilling program was
possible due to investment made by SAPC.
During Q2 2013, idle beneficiation plant was
contracted out to a quarry contractor to
generate revenue. The Company also
commenced work on an earth moving contract
with a general contractor that is building a new
railway in Western Kazakhstan. The value of
this first earth moving contract is approximately
$8.1 million.
The Company announced, on 10 May 2012,
that it had agreed to vary the repayment
schedule on $5 million of existing loans from
ATF Bank Kazakhstan. Under the terms of the
refinancing, Sunkar paid $1.5 million on 11 May
2012 and a further $1 million on 1 July 2012.
The remaining loan was repaid in December
2012 following the negotiation of a $3 million
loan facility with AsiaCredit Bank (Kazakhstan)
(ACB ).
Chairman's Statement
Sunkar Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
04
This year has been one of
consolidation following the
receipt of the balance of 
$11.8 million under the
conditional subscription
agreement with Sun Avenue
Partners Corp (SAPC ) for the
subscription in two tranches of
up to $12.8 million of
convertible loan notes and the
readmission of the ordinary
shares of 0.1 pence each in the
Company (the Ordinary
Shares ) to trading on AIM 
on 20 January 2012.
Delivering on our Objectives
Balance of $11.8 million received
Progressed renegotiation of SubSoil Use
Contract
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange Listing completed
Working capital has been reinforced by
revenue from earth moving contract and
contracting out of beneficiation equipment Financial Results
The audited financial statements are prepared
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union. For 2012, the Group reported
a loss of $9.2 million (2011: $10.1 million).
Group net cash inflow in the year was $0.3
million (2011: net cash outflow - $1.5 million).
Feasibilty Study
In February 2013, the Company was pleased
to announce that the Detailed Feasibility Study
(DFS ) on its Chilisai Phosphate Project (the
Project ) had been completed. The DFS is
expected to form the foundation for a
prospective project financing arrangement. It
outlines robust economics with attractive IRRs,
drawing on Chilisai's natural advantages of low
cost mining, proximity to sulphur and well
established regional infrastructure, as well as
attainable markets both locally in Kazakhstan
and internationally in Western China and
through Black Sea ports. The DFS has
identified no major technical hurdles with the
Chilisai Phosphate Project and an
announcement of the award of the basic
engineering contract is currently anticipated in
the second half of 2013, leading to Stage I
production by the last quarter of 2016.
The highlights of the study were as follows:
Project economics
      An estimated Project Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 14.1% after tax and
17.2% before tax, on a 100% equity
financed basis.
      When discounted at 10%, the Net Present
Value (NPV) of the Project is estimated to
be $715.2m (after tax) on a 100% equity
financed basis.
      Estimated EBITDA of $278m per annum in
2017 and $533m per annum by 2025.
      T otal revenue over the life of the Project is
estimated at approximately $22.3bn. 
      Nominal cash cost of diammonium
phosphate (DAP ) production is estimated
at $195 per metric tonne in 2017 and at
$232 per metric tonne in 2025.
      Nominal cash cost of monoammonium
phosphate (MAP ) production is
estimated at $171 per metric tonne in 2017
and at $219 per metric tonne in 2025.
Capital costs
      Estimated total construction cost for both
phases of the Project (including initial plant
and final plant) of approximately $1.94bn
(escalated).
      Includes $889.7m on equipment and
material supply, $749.2m on site works,
$297.6m on engineering and $5.6m on
pre-commissioning ramp-up costs.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement
continued
Sunkar Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
05
3.0mtn
T otal ore extraction to date
0.3mtn
T otal mined in 2012 Direct Application Rock and Ground
Phosphate Rock Sales
The Company continued the pursuit of its
strategy for marketing DAR to the local
agricultural sector as well as ground phosphate
rock sales to industrial partners. During the
year the Company generated revenue of 
$1.5 million from sales to farmers and industrial
users. Temir-Service LLP has shipped 
12,223 tonnes in bulk to a Russian fertilizer
plant, and 13,960 tonnes has been bagged
and sold to farmers. Kazakhstan farmers have
purchased 2,496 tonnes and Russian farmers
purchased 11,464 tonnes.
After 4 years of applications of small trial
quantities of DAR, the feedback from farmers
is that, although DAR application has increased
yields as expected, a lack of the specialised
equipment required to apply DAR is the  key
limiting factor. Management intends to help
farmers to develop such equipment base by
way of co-investing into equipment and
allowing partial deferrals of payments for DAR
purchases under the condition that the
deferred funds are used for purchase of this
specialised equipment The Chilisai deposit is
the only DAR supplier in Kazakhstan. The
closest foreign DAR suppliers are located in
Russia, in Kursk, Moscow, and Kirov regions,
so Chilisai DAR has certain cost advantages
due to logistics. Kazakhstan subsidises
domestic fertilizer use at higher rates than
foreign products, however, this advantage may
cease if Kazakhstan becomes a member of the
World Trade Organisation in 2013. 
Benefication Equipment Contracting and 
Earth Moving Contracts
The Group signed an earth moving contract
with a general contractor that is building a new
railway line in Western Kazakhstan. The VAT
inclusive value of the contract is KZT1.2 billion
(approximately $8.1 million at current exchange
rates). The Company received a prepayment
amounting to 30% of the total contract value
during the year and recorded revenues of 
$0.5 million during the year.
The Group pursued this earth moving contract
to make use of equipment that was idle due to
the reduced mining commitments at Chilisai, in
order to generate additional cash flow for the
Company from its existing asset base. Due to
the flat and shallow geological structure of the
Company's phosphate deposit, T emir Service
uses earth moving equipment and mining
techniques similar to those used in laying
foundation for major railroads and major
highways in flat terrain. The Group holds the
relevant state licences for road construction
and has experience of building roads on its
contract territory.
The contract is for the construction of a rail
track foundation on a stretch of the new
railway line from Beineu to T assai stations in
Western Kazakhstan and work is scheduled to
be completed during Q2 2013. Following
progress made with the initial earth moving
contract, at the end of April 2013 the Group
has concluded a further contract with the same
general contractor for another stretch of the rail
track foundation. The new contract value is
approximately $12 million and it is expected
that the Group will have to outsource some of
the works in order to complete earth moving of 
2 million cu m in Q4 this year. 
The Group generated revenue of $244,000
from the contracting of its beneficiation
equipment during the year. 
The Directors believe the revenue from 
earth moving business will make a significant
contribution to the working capital of the
Company and will help to retain its core
qualified personnel for the mining season 
of 2014.
Chairman's Statement
continued
Sunkar Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
06
$74.2m
Net assets
$12.8m
Cash investment raised Subsoil Use Licence
During the year the Group applied to MINT for
the ore volumes to be produced under the
Subsoil Use Contract (SUC ) to be amended
to 300,000 tonnes per annum for 2012-2014, 
5 million tonnes per annum for 2015-2017 and
10 million tonnes from 2018.  The proposed
amendment to the Work Programme under the
SUC was approved by the Kazakh authorities
early in 2013 subject to the Work Programme
documentation being prepared for formal
inclusion within the SUC and the execution of
the amended SUC and the Work Programme
by MINT . Given that the Group is now
substantially in compliance with the SUC and,
following completion of the DFS in February
2013 which provides support for the carrying
value, the directors do not consider that any
impairment of the carrying value of intangible
assets is required.
The Company's commitment to meet
associated cumulative development
expenditure of $115 million from the end of
2014 to 2020 has not changed.
Conclusion
Following approval of the amendment to the
mining commitments under the SUC, the
conversion of the SAPC loan notes and the
completion of the DFS after the year end, the
Group is in a position to progress the Chilisai
Phosphate Project with a view to awarding the
basic engineering contract in the second half
of 2013, leading to Stage I production by the 
end of 2016. 
Short-term cash flows will be managed by
completion of the existing earth moving
contracts, pursuit of additional contracts and
further sales of DAR and ground phosphate
rock backed up by the support of the majority
shareholder.
Finally, I would like to thank our management
team, staff, consultants, contractors and my
fellow directors for their effort throughout the
year to market DAR and secure the first earth
moving contract to generate revenue to fund
the working capital. T o all shareholders, in
general, and SAPC, our majority shareholder, 
in particular, thank you for your continued
support and interest in Sunkar.
T eck Soon Kong
Chairman
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement
continued
Sunkar Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
07
$8.1m
Commenced earth moving contract value
$5.6m
Reduction in current liabilities