 Surface Transforms plc Annual Report and Accounts 
31 May 2004 
2 
Chairman's statement 
We have continued to make progress towards our goal, which is the profitable commercial 
exploitation of our unique carbon fibre reinforced ceramic (CFRC) materials. The most 
important events during the past year were the signing of key agreements with Dunlop 
Aerospace, the United States Air Force Research Laboratory (USAF) and the UK Ministry 
of Defence (UK MoD) and, more recently, with the European automotive brake systems 
supplier METEK. 
 
A particularly interesting development was the MoD contract announced in May 2004, in 
which the MoD is investigating the potential of our CFRC materials for use in body 
armour.  This could be a new income stream for Surface Transforms' technology which 
until now has been predominantly from sales relating to friction applications.  
 
Our new business model adopted around a year ago has delivered successful entries into all 
our target aerospace, automotive and anti-ballistic materials markets.  As revenues are now 
increasing and costs have been reduced, our operational and financial position has steadily 
improved. The Company's working capital and balance sheet have also been strengthened 
by the share placing in April, which raised  2.7 million after expenses and introduced new 
financial institutions to our shareholder base.  
 
Financial review 
The Company's financial results for the year ended 31 May 2004 show a significant 
improvement on the comparable period last year. 
 
Turnover increased by 79% to  428,608 (2003:  239,755), while operating losses on 
ordinary activities were lower at  256,972 (2003: loss  1,129,909) and the Company's 
cash and working capital position has improved markedly. In addition, the reduction in 
operating losses is a result of improved financial cost control.  
 
Losses after tax were also lower at  129,524 (2003: loss  964,382), reflecting research and 
development tax credits of  119,685 (2003:  158,850). 
 
On 30 April 2004, the Company announced the Placing of 4,142,859 new Ordinary shares 
at 70 pence per share. The net proceeds of the placing was  2.7 million of which  2.4 
million was received in late May 2004. The remaining  332,500 was received in late July 
and is included in debtors at 31 May. The Placing has provided the resources to expand our 
management and technical teams, and to provide working capital to accelerate the 
expansion of the business. 
 
At 31 May 2004 the Company held cash and deposits of  2,707,839 (2003:  178,175). 
Surface Transforms continues to have no bank borrowings. 
  Surface Transforms plc Annual Report and Accounts 
31 May 2004 
3 
Operating activities 
 
Aircraft brakes 
In November 2003, Surface Transforms signed a major licensing contract with aircraft 
braking systems supplier Dunlop Aerospace to develop systems for a designated large 
commercial airliner. This contract is the first application of the Company's CFRCs in the 
commercial global aircraft industry. The recent sale of Dunlop Aerospace in July 2004 to 
Meggitt Plc, the British aerospace and defence company, does not alter the terms of the 
agreement with Surface Transforms. 
 
The work, to complete a material development programme and to design, install and 
commission a CFRC brake disc production plant at Dunlop's plant in Coventry, is 
advancing well. The first certification flight is scheduled for 2006.  If the CFRC brake 
receives its certification from the Civil Aviation Authority for the specified airliner, Dunlop 
will initiate the supply of CFRC brakes manufactured under a previously announced licence 
agreement with Surface Transforms. This would secure long-term payments for the 
Company. 
 
Automotive 
Surface Transforms continues to develop applications within the automotive industry. In 
June 2004, the Company signed a two-year Cooperative Agreement initially worth 
  60,000 with leading German automotive brake parts supplier METEK Metallverarbeitung 
GmbH of Meckenheim.  The contract is for the design, development and supply of carbon 
ceramic brake discs and pads to METEK for use on high-performance and luxury European 
road cars. 
 
Entry into the road car market has long been one of the Company's stated objectives.  
Therefore, the METEK contract represents an important commercial landmark.  We 
estimate that when carbon ceramic brake technology is adopted by major car manufacturers 
who now use steel or cast iron brake pads and discs, it is likely that we can achieve 
penetration of between one and three percent of a total market valued at   3.5 billion. 
 
Initial road car testing of Surface Transforms' materials at METEK has shown that CFRCs 
offer significant advantages over traditional cast iron brake discs with organic pads.  
METEK's booth at the European Motor Show in Essen, Germany in November 2004 will 
be the first occasion at which our new disc and brake systems will be on display, and will 
allow comparison of the performance of our systems with iron and other carbon ceramic 
brakes.  
 
We have begun a targeted marketing programme addressing the European automobile 
industry. The marketing programme is to raise awareness of the benefits of our ceramic 
brake disc technology, which we believe is inherently superior to the ceramic rotor and pad 
systems currently used on some high performance European road cars.  Surface Transforms plc Annual Report and Accounts 
31 May 2004 
4 
Aerospace components 
Since January 2004, work on the Roxel (Rocket Motors) programme has accelerated at 
Roxel's UK and French locations. In the past six months further CFRC components have 
been despatched to Roxel UK for rocket nozzle applications. It is the first time Roxel 
France (formerly Celerg, a division of the French Company SNPE) has used CFRC parts 
for a fuel valve assembly. 
 
Currently Roxel and Surface Transforms are investigating the details of a closer 
collaboration, not only for the supply of additional components but also for the generation 
of specific design data to characterise the performance of our material in the hostile 
environment of the rocket motor. 
 
In September 2003, Surface Transforms signed its first development contract with the 
United States Air Force Research Laboratory (USAF) for the supply of prototype CFRC 
materials. Since signing the agreement, the project has progressed well. It is currently on 
schedule and on budget. This contract was for 12 months. Extension of this contract is 
dependent on budget constraints at USAF but we have received very encouraging feedback 
from the extensive testing that has occurred during the first part of the contract. 
 
New applications for CRFC technology 
 
Ballistics 
In May this year the Company was awarded a contract worth around  40,000, by the UK 
Ministry of Defence for the development and testing of anti-ballistic materials for use in 
infantry body armour and possibly as an anti-ballistic skin  for armoured personnel 
carriers and weapon platforms.   
 
Preliminary investigations show that our CFRCs offer protection against repeat hit high-
power rifle shot, as well as weight saving advantages compared with standard alumina 
ceramic armour plates. Work is expected to be completed by around March 2005, subject to 
satisfactory product performance. The directors anticipate that if the performance is 
acceptable it should lead initially to commercial orders for body armour.  
 
Technology 
Non-executive director Professor David Clark continues to provide guidance to the 
technology team and he has recently completed an in-house review of the Company's 
technology and its comparative positioning within the world market. We have also recently 
commissioned two detailed market and technical research projects in the fields of aircraft 
brake systems and European automotive brakes and clutches. 
 
In terms of other new developments, two new patent applications for additional products 
and processes in the area of CFRCs are being prepared in readiness for expected 
submission by the end of this calendar year.   Surface Transforms plc Annual Report and Accounts 
31 May 2004 
5 
Management 
Following the successful share placing we have strengthened our technical and 
management teams, and will continue to do so. Dr. Kevin Johnson PhD, MBA (aged 32), 
an industrial chemist with substantial experience, has joined as Operations Director. His 
appointment will be followed by the recruitment of three more technical executives in the 
areas of materials science and application engineering. The first of these appointments has 
already been made with Geoff Whitfield, a composites and aeronautical engineer, joining 
later this month. We expect to fill the remaining positions by the end of the year. 
 
The sales team will be strengthened by the appointment of a senior sales executive to assist 
Julio Faria and Dr. Geoff Gould in developing and growing the business. This appointment 
will be made after the completion of the market research projects on the aircraft and road 
car brake markets described above. 
 
Kate Hickman, formerly Operations Manager, has reduced her full-time involvement and is 
now employed as a consultant for one week per month. Kate has been with Surface 
Transforms for six years and her contribution to the development of our CFRC technology 
has been outstanding. We are delighted that she continues to apply her great enthusiasm 
and talents to the business. 
 
Outlook 
This has been a year of strong progress.  We now have key contracts in place in our target 
aerospace and automotive markets, and following the  2.7 million fundraising in April, 
have the financial strength to deliver our business objectives.  
 
We are happy with the way the Company is structured and financed, leaving us free to 
focus on completing work on our key contracts, as well as having the resources in place to 
explore additional commercial opportunities for our unique materials.  The agreements that 
Surface Transforms has currently signed have the potential to bring in significant repeat 
revenues and it is our priority to ensure the development milestones are met on time and to 
standard.   
The success of the fundraising will allow the Company to achieve these aims. It also 
provides the capital to accelerate the development of our CFRC technology and invest in 
management and technical infrastructure which in turn will ensure that the higher levels of 
business activity are supported.  
 
We are now moving towards the goal set out in our business model to develop Surface 
Transforms into a company with first class technical, product development and business 
development capabilities.  
 
There is a high level of confidence within the Company, shared by employees and directors 
alike.  Our recent new contract wins reflect the dedication and integrity of all employees.  I 
would like to thank my board colleagues and talented staff for their hard work and 
commitment during a year of strong progress.  Surface Transforms plc Annual Report and Accounts 
31 May 2004 
6 
Kevin D'Silva, Chairman 3 August 2004 