 Surface Transforms plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
31 May 2005 
2 
Chairman's statement  
 
In the year under review, following the 
raising of  2.7 million net of expenses in 
May 2004, we were able to accelerate the 
investment in Surface Transforms' 
operating facilities; the proprietary 
ceramic transformation processes; 
management and staffing, as we pursued 
the faster commercialisation of our 
unique carbon fibre reinforced ceramics 
(CFRCs) technology.    
 
Despite the unexpected, short-term 
revenue reduction in the second half, 
after the loss of the wide-bodied aircraft 
brake contract, the board remains 
confident that there are excellent market 
opportunities to exploit our world-class 
technology by creating commercial 
applications for the global automotive, 
aircraft and rocket motor components 
industries.  
 
The management team has been 
strengthened over the past 12 months and 
we have recruited additional senior 
technicians and engineers. Since January 
2005, under the leadership of non-
executive director Peter Holland, we 
have begun the integration of a new, 
more experienced management team.  
The management team has been set 
challenging new operating targets in 
aircraft and automotive brake 
development.  It has also been tasked 
with developing additional intellectual 
property, including the next generation 
of carbon ceramics technology. 
 
Financial Review 
Despite the progress made by the 
Company in automotive brake 
development and the award of a second, 
US-based aircraft brake development 
programme in mid January 2005, 
revenues for the year ending 31 May 
2005 were less than the prior year at 
 258,336 (2004:  428,608). This reflects 
the impact of the loss of the aircraft 
brake contract associated with Dunlop 
Aerospace announced on 13 January 
2005. The loss of this contract, combined 
with the strategic decision to increase 
development costs and strengthen 
management, resulted in the Company 
delivering a pre tax loss of  675,185 
(2004:  249,209). Losses after tax were 
higher at  616,623 (2004:  129,524). 
 
Capital expenditure for the year 
amounted to  63,775 and these levels are 
scheduled to increase materially next 
year as a result of investment in the 
Company's processes and technologies. 
 
The Company's cash and working capital 
position remain healthy demonstrating 
the strong financial structures within the 
Company. At 31 May 2005, the 
Company held cash and deposits 
amounting to  2,728,052 (2004: 
 2,707,839) representing approximately 
20 pence per share. Surface Transforms 
continues to have no bank borrowings. 
  Surface Transforms plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
31 May 2005 
3 
Management 
Dr. Kevin Johnson BSc, PhD, MBA was 
appointed Managing Director on 1 
August 2005. Kevin is a chemist and has 
been Operations Director since joining 
the Company in July last year. This 
strengthening of the management team 
allows Julio Faria, who jointly founded 
the business in 1992, to bring his 
considerable focus to all aspects of the 
technical platform of the Company.   
Continuous development of the 
Company's proprietary technology is 
viewed as one of the key drivers for the 
improvement of shareholder value and 
Julio's experience and knowledge will be 
instrumental in ensuring that this is 
achieved.  We would like to thank him 
for the years of valuable work he has 
already contributed to the Company as 
MD.  He takes up his new appointment 
as Technical Director with immediate 
effect. 
 
We wish Kevin Johnson and his 
management team every success in the 
coming months. His promotion reflects 
the board's intent to promote outstanding 
executives with energy and talent, 
irrespective of age. We recognise that 
creating a successful market-driven 
business is very dependent on the energy 
and drive of its employees. 
 
Science & Technology Group  
Good progress has been made by the 
Science & Technology Group headed by 
Julio Faria. The first design phase of the 
new carbon siliconisation plant (ST-Tech 
2) was completed within budget in June 
2005. The next two phases comprising 
plant assembly and commissioning are 
scheduled for completion in early 2006.  
 
This next generation ST-Tech 2 plant is a 
key part of delivering the Company's 
business model. Once brake applications 
have been developed and 
commercialised, the business model 
incorporates the sale and commissioning 
of Surface Transforms' technology at the 
client's production site. Surface 
Transforms will then base its licence fee 
on the number of each brake unit 
produced. When completed, the new 
plant should cost less than half the 
capital cost of the current technology and 
it is expected to reduce the current unit 
cost of an automotive ceramic brake disc 
significantly.   
 
Patent applications for ST-Tech 2 have 
been filed during July 2005.  Further 
patent applications are being processed 
and these cover most of the chemical 
processes relating to the manufacture of 
a carbon ceramic brake disc. The 
Company's goal is to ensure that it has a 
robust platform of proprietary 
intellectual property that can produce 
revenues either under licence or as 
separate joint venture contracts. 
 
Automotive Braking Systems  
The high-performance road car market is 
one of the Company's two main markets 
for the commercial use of carbon ceramic 
brake discs and pads. The main product 
is SystemST, a carbon ceramic brake 
disc and pad which can be used on a 
variety of high-performance cars. The 
principal advantages of SystemST are: 
  Surface Transforms plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
31 May 2005 
4 
  it is 70 per cent lighter than the 
equivalent steel disc. This weight 
reduction leads to improved handling 
and better fuel efficiency   
  enhanced braking characteristics, 
reducing stopping distances and 
providing constant and responsive 
performance in all weather conditions 
  the wear rate is approximately 50 per 
cent better than the equivalent steel 
disc. It can withstand high 
temperatures and does not rust 
 
In 2004, the number of high-performance 
cars sold in the EU was 150,000 and the 
total number of such cars on the road is 
approximately 1,000,000. The board 
estimates that within five years the 
majority of high-performance car 
manufacturers will provide carbon 
ceramic brakes as an alternative option to 
steel brake discs. This represents 
substantial market potential and at an 
estimated five to 10 per cent market 
penetration on new cars, the European 
market could account for approximately 
50,000-100,000 ceramic brake discs 
annually. 
 
The Company's market entry strategy is 
threefold: 
 
  sale of ceramic brake systems to the 
automotive Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) market for high 
volume performance cars 
  sale of ceramic brake systems to the 
automotive OEM market for low 
volume performance cars 
  sale of ceramic brake systems into the 
automotive after market for high-
performance cars 
Our operation at Ince, Cheshire has 
capacity to produce around 3,000 
automotive brake discs per annum, 
representing approximately  2 million of 
annual revenues. The Company's 
business model allows the production of 
brake discs and pads to supply small 
OEM automotive companies while larger 
volumes, when approvals are achieved, 
will be supplied under licence contracts 
whereby the customer acquires the plant 
and other equipment. 
 
Both the low volume, high-performance 
OEM car brake market and the 
equivalent brake after market are 
attractive to Surface Transforms and 
represent the best opportunity for early 
sales. We are pleased to report that a 
number of British car manufacturers are 
testing the SystemST brake system and 
shareholders will be updated once 
material progress has been made. 
 
In parallel, the Company is now able to 
offer an after market SystemST ceramic 
brake system on a number of specialist, 
high-performance cars in the UK.  Car 
owners can contact Surface Transforms 
to purchase SystemST and enquiries will 
be directed to our specialist contract-
brake fitting partners. Cars suitable for 
these brakes currently include the Ferrari 
F48, the BMW M3 and the Jaguar C 
Class.  Surface Transforms plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
31 May 2005 
5 
Aircraft Brake Systems 
The Company maintains two separate 
brake development programmes for UK-
based Dunlop Aeropace and a US-based, 
global aircraft brake system supplier. 
Preliminary development work with a 
third global supplier commenced in May 
2005. Dunlop's Master Licence 
Agreement was signed in November 
2003 and is still in operation. Currently, 
new disc evaluation protocols have been 
agreed and testing is underway. At 
present the board understands that 
Dunlop has no further aircraft brake 
contracts onto which it could introduce 
carbon ceramic brake systems. 
 
The US aircraft brake manufacturer 
development contract was signed in 
January 2005. This client is seeking to 
substantially improve brake wear 
characteristics from carbon ceramic 
brake discs. Improved aircraft brake 
wear reduces time lost on the ground to 
maintenance and increases the financial 
and operating efficiency of the aircraft 
owner. The positive revenue impact from 
this new aircraft development project 
will be seen in 2005/6. The intention in 
2006, if the initial two phases of the 
development programme are completed 
successfully, is to enter into a third
 
phase 
programme to qualify the carbon ceramic 
discs for selected new and existing 
aircraft models. 
 
Aerospace Components 
The Company recently announced a two-
year supply programme to deliver rocket 
motor components to Roxel (UK Rocket 
Motors) Ltd., Europe's largest 
manufacturer of rocket and missile 
propulsion systems. 
 
Previously, Surface Transforms supplied 
Roxel with finished components for its 
thrust modulation research programme 
on a select-supplier commercial basis. 
This technology has now matured to the 
extent that it is being used on motor 
demonstrator programmes, including live 
motor firings. Separate work is also well 
underway at both companies to generate 
specific engineering design data for 
Surface Transforms' material for use in 
rocket motors and related components. 
The combined total value of the Roxel 
collaborations is expected to be in the 
region of  100,000. 
 
Should the new project be successful, 
and once quality and commercial aspects 
have been validated, the CFRC materials 
are a potential candidate for future 
production of rocket motor nozzle 
components, gas valve systems, and 
other components. 
 
Outlook 
Despite the weaker sales and financial 
performance in the year ending May 
2005, considerable change has been 
implemented within the business. The 
May 2004 fundraising allowed changes 
to be made to reduce the business risk 
and to improve the Company's capability 
of successfully implementing its business 
strategy. 
 
The new and larger team at Surface 
Transforms is capable of driving success 
in its chosen markets. Experienced new 
managers have joined to work alongside 