 04
swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Total revenue was 10% ahead of last year at 
 49.13m (2008:  44.82m), reflecting the fact that 
new business we have been developing over  
the previous year, is starting to come through.   
Gross profits were level at  6.30m (2008:  6.32m),  
as the benefits from revenue growth and 
improvements in efficiencies and product 
engineering, were offset by severe raw material 
inflation, particularly up to the interim results.  
Management continued to focus on tight control 
of overhead costs but these were affected by 
significantly higher utility charges and increased 
expense in the Czech Republic.  Interest costs were 
high this year as they included a  89k adverse 
movement in non-cash pension related charges.
Operating profit before exceptional items was 
broadly level with last year at  1.52m (2008:  1.54m).  
Profit before tax, including exceptional items, was  
 1.34m (2008:  2.34m which included the 
exceptional profit on the sale and leaseback  
of a warehouse).
Swallowfield has delivered a robust set of results 
including 4% growth in adjusted (pre-exceptional) 
earnings per share to 9.6p for the year to June 2009, 
in spite of a highly challenging global economic 
environment.  The Group has also increased its 
revenues, maintained pre-exceptional operating 
profits in line with the prior year, and retained  
its strong balance sheet. 05
swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
Net debt at the year end was  3.36m compared 
to  2.42m last year, from a peak of  8.78m in 2004.  
The increase in net debt resulted primarily from the 
need to fund working capital for the high volumes 
of business in the last two months of the year.  
There has been a slight deterioration in our net 
terms of trade as a result of customers' focus on 
their balance sheets, although there has been no 
deterioration in overdue debts.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 
4.1p (2008: 4.1p) per share.  Together with the 
interim dividend of 1.8p (2008: 1.4p), the total 
dividend for the year will be 5.9p (2008: 5.5p) per 
share representing an annual increase of 7%, with  
a dividend cover of approximately 1.5 times 
fully-taxed underlying profits.  If approved at the 
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be 
paid on 27 November 2009 to shareholders on the 
register at 13 November 2009.  The shares will go 
ex-dividend on 11 November 2009.
Business Review
The last twelve months has been a period of 
almost unprecedented economic turbulence.  
The impact of this on the Group has been felt in 
sharply rising raw material, logistics and utility costs.  
In addition, we have faced the sales impact of 
very sudden and sharp destocking by customers 
and witnessed some pricing and payment terms 
pressures from customers.  Despite these pressures 
the Group has managed to increase the top line  
demonstrating the success of the strategic focus 
on growing the business through new customers 
and new product development.  We continue to  
strengthen Swallowfield's reputation and its position  
as a true full-service company.  Our French sales 
office, opened in September 2008, at modest 
cost, is making good progress in developing new 
relationships and strengthening our service to 
existing customers.  Customers continue to find the 
geographic diversity of operational facilities and 
sales offices particularly attractive. 
As highlighted in my statement last year, the 
organic development of the Group's operations  
has led to a change in the way in which the 
segmental analysis is presented, and the 
traditional analysis between Toiletries and 
Cosmetics business is no longer distinct.
Czech Republic
The manufacturing site in the Czech Republic has  
been operational for the whole year and the  
transfer of production lines from the UK is complete.   
The facility now offers the full complement of 
colour cosmetics, EDT, tube and liquid filling.  
Following a review of the long-term prospects of  
this facility, we decided to make additional 
Investments in overheads to allow for future growth 
despite the short-term impact on unabsorbed 
costs.  The facility initially failed to achieve the 
planned efficiencies or level of business.  However, 
the position has now been significantly improved 
with net profits in the last quarter.  This gives the 
Group a strong platform for the new business that 
is starting to be won for the operation.  The site has 
approximately 120 permanent employees, and 
continues to be of great interest to new and  
existing customers.  It is well placed to serve the  
forecast growth in demand for cosmetic and 
toiletry products from Central and Eastern 
European consumers.
China
In addition to our long established sourcing office 
in Shanghai, this has now been supplemented 
by our new strategic investment in a cosmetics 
manufacturer.  This is now a key part of our 
operational activity, and this facility has become 
one of our top five Chinese suppliers.
Properties
The consolidation of our finished goods inventory 
into our Lowmoor warehouse, during the year, 
has released a property at Bideford which is now 
being marketed for sale or short-term rental.  
However, we have had no substantive expressions 
of interest during the last year.
Pension
The triennial valuation of the defined benefit pension 
scheme, at 6 April 2008, has now been completed.  
The valuation has incorporated the most recent life 
expectancy assumptions and there has been no 
significant resultant impact on the future funding of 
the scheme.  As I reported in my Interim statement, 
the scheme has now been closed to new entrants, 
and new employees are being offered membership 
of a defined contribution scheme.  The IFRS deficient 
on the balance sheet has reduced slightly to  2.45m 
(2008:  2.58m).  swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
07
Dividends
The Board, in line with the statement in the last 
Annual Report, will retain the target dividend cover 
of 1.5 times normalised post-tax earnings.
Board Changes
Richard Organ is completing his period of handover 
to Patrick Gaynor and will resign from the Board in 
October 2009.  I would like to take the opportunity  
on behalf of shareholders, the Board and all the staff 
to thank Richard for his tremendous contribution to 
the Group and its performance throughout his 13 
years of dedicated service in his capacity as a  
non-executive director.
LTIP
The Board has developed a Long Term Incentive 
Plan proposal for senior executives which it intends 
to introduce later in the calender year.  The Plan 
would envisage awards of shares and cash over 
rolling 3 year cycles conditional on achieving 
challenging performance targets. 
Strategy and Outlook
The last year has seen some encouraging organic 
sales growth and, in the absence of further 
dislocation in the economy, we expect to continue 
to improve revenues at a faster rate than the market.  
We have started the new trading year with a healthy 
order book.  Our focused Marketing programme has 
provided many more new customer contacts, some 
of which have already resulted in new business.  We 
expect to see further increases in this conversion rate.
Capital investment, in the year ahead, will be 
broadly in line with depreciation, at around  1.30m,  
and is planned to include a new state of the art  
manufacturing room at Wellington.  This will 
facilitate a strengthening of our product capabilities,  
along with further investments for efficiency 
improvements, environmental savings and cost 
reduction.  We expect to maintain net debt at 
around current levels.
Management will continue to pursue its growth 
strategy, against the parameters set out below, 
by driving sales which satisfy our key margin 
requirement, by broadening our geographic 
footprint, by widening our product range, by  
further focus on improvements in Quality, Cost, 
Service and Innovation, and by making strategic 
aquisitions of complimentary lines of business, if 
suitable opportunities arise.
These elements will be pursued with a focus on  
customers and the external marketplace.  New  
product development initiatives will be 
accelerated by alliances with external agencies.   
Swallowfield has demonstrated that it is a strong, 
resilient business, with an excellent customer base.  
We have agreed a set of demanding but 
achievable targets for the three years to 2012 to 
generate a 7.5% return on sales and a 13.5%  
pre-tax return on capital employed.
On behalf of all shareholders I thank Ian and the 
whole Swallowfield team for their determination,  
hard work and loyalty in delivering excellent 
customer service and a stable financial 
performance in the toughest of economic 
circumstances.  The year ahead will bring new 
challenges but we believe our strategy is sound 
and we are fully focussed on driving the business 
to achieve profitable sustainable growth and 
accomplish the targets for the future. 
S J Winning
Chairman
10 September 2009
 We continue to strengthen 
Swallowfield's reputation 
and it's position as a true 
full-service company.   ...we are leaders  
and experts in design, 
development, testing 
and compliance 
to deliver product 
innovation for our 
customers. 
widening our  
product range and 
strategic acquisition
broadening our 
geographic footprint
Ian Mackinnon 
Chief Executive Officer swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
09