 134 13464 12/04/2007 Proof 5
02 Autoclenz Holdings Plc Annual Report 2006
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement
Introduction
In its first period as an independently quoted business on the
Alternative Investment Market (AIM ) of the London Stock
Exchange, the Group has achieved a creditable overall
performance, despite trading in a highly competitive market
place.
The majority of the brands within the Group's business have
performed well, in particular AC SMART, which increased
revenues in the calendar year against the last calendar year by
54%, Pinnacle by 16% and Ready to Rent by 16%. Operating
profits for these businesses were also up compared to the
previous year.
Within our core valeting business, Autoclenz, as we have
previously indicated in both our half-year review and pre-close
trading update in January 2007, there were a number of
factors outside our immediate control which had an adverse
impact on performance. Despite these factors, revenues and
operating profits are up in the period as compared to the 2005
trading results of Autoclenz Limited.
In the final six months of the period being reported upon, we
were prudent in reducing our cost base by  0.3 million (5.3%).
This adjustment in the operational base should not inhibit our
business in the coming financial year and should, we believe,
support our anticipated growth through 2007.
Financial Highlights
In the period ended 31 December 2006, Group revenues were
 28 million and Operating Profit was  1.6 million after goodwill
amortisation and share-based performance awards.
The overall gross margin for the calendar year reduced 1.2
percentage points to 27.5% from 28.7% in the prior calendar
year, the primary factors being:
  The reduction in volumes of new car registrations
particularly in Q4 2006
  The on-going price pressures reflected across the
motor trade
  Start-up investment in two major pieces of new
business won in 2006
  Lower than expected growth at REACT
Furthermore, we suffered an unscheduled and non-budgeted
rebate payment to one of the core valeting division's principal
customers of  75,000. This renegotiation of contract terms
was a contributor to the overall shortfall in the Group results
against market forecasts, but should position the Group well
for the future.
Although once again, overheads remained under strict control,
there were a number of costs in 2006 which were not in 2005
including  0.4 million interest costs in relation to new banking
and finance facilities together with the on-going regulatory and
statutory costs related to our independent  Plc' status.
During the period we have invested some  100,000 which
principally relates to a new computer system, of which phase 1
has been implemented on time and in line with our plans and
expectations.
Pre-tax profit was  1.2 million and after adding back goodwill
amortisation and share-based payments, totalled  2.1 million.
Fully diluted earnings per share was 5.76 pence.
The earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2006
before goodwill amortisation and share-based payments was
14.19 pence.
Dividend
In line with our previously stated dividend policy the Directors
are recommending a final dividend payment of 3.0 pence per
share. This, together with an interim dividend payment of 1.5
pence per share, makes a total dividend payment for the year
of 4.5 pence per share.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May
2007 the final dividend of 3.0 pence will be paid on 25 May
2007 to shareholders on the Register as at 27 April 2007.
Review
2006 has seen good performances and the strengthening of a
number of brands within the business.
During the period being reported, we have undertaken a review
of the Group to ensure that we are fully compliant with
operational best practice. Also during this period both the
REACT and AC SMART brands gained ISO 9001 accreditation.
The operational teams have continued to focus on building
their brands while servicing our existing strong partnerships
and seeking new business opportunities.
AC SMART
Particular merit must be given to our cosmetic repair division
AC SMART, whose operator base has now increased to in
excess of 40 operators, as a result of having secured
significant new accounts with several prestige marques.
These include Mercedes, BMW and Land Rover together with
one of the main Used Car Supermarkets, which has in excess
of 10 sites nationally.
Since the period end, AC SMART has further extended its
service offering to customers by introducing a pioneering
new innovative paint, dent and wheel repair service, with the
ability for the customer to sell SMART repairs via its service
department to add an additional profit stream for us and
our customers.
The Group remains focused on tight cost control,
and on improving margins and operational efficiencies
which will maintain our leading position, future
competitiveness and growth. 
13464AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/07  15:22  Page 2 13464 12/04/2007 Proof 5
Autoclenz
Pinnacle
AC SMART
AC Ready to Rent
ALS
REACT
AC SMART: the name says it all. We
specialise in SMART repairs; they're not a
sideline or an add-on for us   they're our
core business. Over the years we have
built up a growing base of operating sites
throughout the UK and today we work with
some of the biggest names in motor sales,
leasing and fleet management.
Autoclenz
Autoquality
Autoclenz Holdings Plc Annual Report 2006 03
13464AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/07  15:22  Page 3 134 13464 12/04/2007 Proof 5
04 Autoclenz Holdings Plc Annual Report 2006
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement continued
Pinnacle
Pinnacle, our prestige vehicle preparation division, has grown
consistently throughout the financial period, expanding further
its range of services into the major dealers within the prestige
marque arena.
We were delighted to secure a significant piece of new
business in November 2006 with Mercedes Benz World, the
prestigious new site which was opened at Brooklands in
Surrey. We have extended the range of our service offering to
encompass a personal  concierge service', as well as a
 collection and delivery service' for customer vehicles. To date,
we have a total of 23 operators on site.
Pinnacle has also assisted in the growth of AC SMART, adding
and securing new business within the Pinnacle Division for AC
SMART. This clearly illustrates the benefit and importance of
brands cross-selling  within the Group.
Autoclenz
As we have already indicated, our core valeting division,
Autoclenz, has experienced a challenging year.
Although the sector remains highly competitive, we will
continue to focus on improving our performance, and adding
value to our service offering whilst also monitoring the cost
base to ensure that we remain both efficient and profitable in
this challenging trading environment.
Post the period end, we are pleased to report that for the third
time, and as we announced in February, Autoclenz has been
recognised for its high levels of customer service to the
automotive industry, receiving a prestigious industry award from
the Institute of Transport Management. The  UK Contract
Valeting Company 2007' was accredited to Autoclenz following
an intensive research and selection process of the Group's
overall service offering to customers.
Autoclenz was selected to receive the award primarily in
recognition of the high levels of efficiency and service it
continues to deliver to its customer base across the automotive
industry. All involved should be congratulated.
AC Ready to Rent
AC Ready to Rent has performed strongly in the period, having
secured several new major accounts during this time.
In June we were delighted to win an additional contract with an
existing customer to provide the management of the car rental
fleet at Stansted Airport. This is an important extension to the
range of services that the Group has historically provided to
this customer as we now provide essential back office
customer support at this location, including a  Meet & Greet
Service' and a  Collection & Delivery Service' to and from a
customer's premises. By increasing the range of services in this
way, we anticipate that there will be increased opportunities for
profitable growth in the future.
REACT
REACT has experienced a difficult year, with challenging and
mixed trading conditions.
As we have already announced to shareholders earlier in the
year, due to cost constraints within the public sector, we lost
two Police contracts in January 2006.
Despite this setback, we have successfully recovered the
shortfall from new business gained within new markets including
the rail sector, and this has started to be reflected in revenues
which by the end of the year were 1% up year-on-year.
More importantly, as we move forward, we will continue to
exploit various opportunities in both new and existing sectors
that will allow us to take advantage of the key skills we have
within this specialist niche business.
People
On behalf of the Board we would like to take this opportunity to
thank all our staff who have worked so hard during the period.
The brands within the Group are being well managed and
driven by a successful team of people at the operational level,
all of whom are committed to each brand's success, and
supported by a highly focused Sales Team who are targeted on
winning new business for all our brands.
Prospects
The Group remains focused on tight cost control, and on
improving margins and operational efficiencies which will
maintain our leading position, future competitiveness and
growth.
Trading in the current financial year continues to be challenging
and subject to a high degree of price competitiveness.
However, we have an increasing number of opportunities to
tender for additional business with new and existing
customers. This, together with the strength and mix of our
business brands, provides us with a solid foundation on which
to develop further.
John Bell Grahame Rummery
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive
21 March 2007
We have an increasing number of opportunities to tender for
additional business with new and existing customers. This,
together with the strength and mix of our business brands,
provides us with a solid foundation on which to develop further. 
13464AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/07  15:23  Page 4 13464 12/04/2007 Proof 5
Autoclenz
Pinnacle
AC SMART
AC Ready to Rent
ALS
REACT
In the prestige vehicle sector, the image of
your marque is everything. It represents
excellence in design, engineering, style and
customer care. It embodies all the qualities
and values that you aspire to and relate to.
The badge on your vehicle is your
assurance that you are investing in the
very best.
Autoclenz
Autoquality
Autoclenz Holdings Plc Annual Report 2006 05
13464AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/07  15:23  Page 5