 12   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Chairman's 
statement
As Synergy Health celebrates its 20th 
anniversary, I am pleased to report that the 
Group has continued to grow and prosper 
despite challenging conditions in the UK 
and Europe. 
Notwithstanding these headwinds, we have 
continued to achieve good organic growth, 
as well as expand our geographic coverage 
as part of our strategy to become a leading 
global provider of outsourced sterilisation 
and other niche services. 
Results
Reported revenues for the year were  312.0 million (2011: 
 287 .3 million), up 8.6%. Underlying organic revenue growth on a 
constant currency basis was 5.4%, which is in line with expectations 
after allowing for a 53 week comparator last year. Adjusted operating 
margins were up 0.7% to 15.7% (2011: 15.0%) resulting in adjusted 
profit before tax increasing by 13.4% to  43.4 million (2011: 
 38.3 million). 
Four acquisitions were made during the year and the costs of these 
were expensed as  non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs'. 
In addition, we closed and consolidated four facilities during the year, 
sustainably reducing operating costs. The combined effects of the 
acquisitions and the facility closures resulted in non-recurring costs 
of  3.5 million. After taking account of amortisation, non-recurring 
items and acquisition-related costs, profit before tax decreased by 
11.6% to  32.5 million (2011:  36.7 million). Last year's profit before 
tax benefited from an exceptional gain of  4.7 million, due primarily 
to the recognition of insurance proceeds arising from the Dunstable 
insurance claim.
Acquisitions
As part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of 
our Applied Sterilisation business, we acquired BeamOne LLC 
( BeamOne') in the US, Sinagama II Technologies Sdn Bhd 
( Sterilgamma') in Malaysia, and LEONI Studer Hard AG ( LSH') in 
Switzerland. These three acquisitions are consistent with Synergy's 
strategy to expand its Applied Sterilisation business internationally. 
We also acquired MSI Surgical Solutions LLC ( MSI'), a small hospital 
sterilisation business in the US, effectively accelerating our plan to 
enter the US market one year earlier than anticipated.
The four acquisitions had a combined consideration of  84.0 million 
(including deferred consideration) and were funded from operating 
cash flow and an increased utilisation of our existing debt facilities. 
Net debt for the year increased by  61.2 million to  173.5 million 
(2011:  112.3 million), and we remain well within our bank 
facility covenants.
Robert E Lerwill 
Chairman
Our focus is on the provision of 
niche outsourcing services that create 
significant value for our customers.
Overview Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   13
Synergy has announced today that it has entered into a Merger 
Agreement with SRI Surgical Express, Inc ( SRI') to acquire its 
fully-diluted share capital for US$3.70 per share, valuing SRI at 
US$25.1 million ( 16.2 million). The consideration, including the 
assumption of its net debt, is approximately US$38.5 million 
( 24.9 million). SRI is a NASDAQ-listed service provider of sterile 
gown rental, instrument set rental and instrument processing 
services. The acquisition will provide Synergy with scale, broad 
market access and infrastructure in an attractive core service 
market for us.
EPS and dividend
Adjusted basic earnings per share before intangibles, amortisation, 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs were 60.32p 
(2011: 53.54p), an increase of 12.7%. After taking account of 
amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, 
basic earnings per share were 44.51p (2011: 52.10p), a decrease 
of 14.6%. 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 11.18p, which together 
with the interim dividend of 6.82p would give dividends for the year 
totalling 18.00p (2011: 15.84p) representing a 13.6% increase. 
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 6 September 2012 for 
shareholders on the register at 10 August 2012.
Our people
The translation of our vision and values into reality is only achievable 
through the inspiration and diligence of our 4,600 employees across 
the Group worldwide. We continuously strive to attract, develop, and 
retain the best people who wish to share in the mission, values, and 
success of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees to 
Synergy, in particular those based in the Americas, Switzerland and 
Malaysia who joined the Group through acquisitions during the year. 
The Board would further like to thank all our employees around the 
world for their dedication and commitment to making 2012 another 
successful year for Synergy Health.
The Board
Liz Hewitt joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 
1 September 2011 and is a welcome addition to the team. Liz is 
a chartered accountant and has become Chairman of the Audit 
Committee as well as being a member of both the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. Liz has previously held senior roles at Smith 
& Nephew plc and 3i Group plc and is also a non-executive Director 
and member of the Audit Committee of Novo Nordisk A/S.
As announced earlier this year, I retire from the Board on 7 June and 
am handing over to Sir Duncan Nichol. Duncan's years of service on 
the Board, together with his broad business experience, ensures that 
there will be continuity of leadership. The Board plans to review its 
membership during the year taking into account the Group's strategy 
of expanding internationally.
The Board has always recognised the paramount importance 
of having a wide range of views reflected at Board level and the 
Company's commitment to diversity and the blend of the right skills 
and experience is shown in the make up of the Board whereby 
women comprise one third of its members. The Board hopes the 
Group should be in a position to maintain this level of representation 
when renewing Board membership over the coming years. 
The Board takes its Corporate Governance responsibilities very 
seriously, and I can confirm that the Board is compliant with 
the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to 
leadership and effectiveness. The Board also continues to ensure 
that there is clear distinction between the Board and the Executive 
leadership of the Company lead by the Chief Executive Officer, 
Dr Richard Steeves. 
Detailed terms of reference for the Board and its committees clearly 
set out their respective responsibilities. There continues to be a 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors. The effectiveness of the Board, its committees, and 
Directors is assessed annually through a formal evaluation process. 
Further details of how we have applied the principles of the Code in 
this regard are set out in the Corporate Governance Report and the 
Directors' report. 
Corporate responsibility
The Board recognises that Synergy's ability to achieve its financial 
objectives is based not simply on how Synergy makes its customers 
feel, but also how the wider communities in which it operates feel 
about the Group. The public's perception of Synergy is determined 
by what we are able to give back to those communities. Details of the 
Group's approach to Corporate Social Responsibility are given in the 
Operating review.
Outlook
I am proud of what Synergy has achieved since I joined the Board 
in January 2005. We are in a strong position and well prepared to 
tackle the challenges ahead. Our decision to invest in Asia and the 
Americas has proved an effective strategy to offset more challenging 
conditions in the UK and Europe. The decision to bring forward our 
investment in the hospital sterilisation market in the US increases our 
exposure to what we believe will be a fast growing market. 
We have to acknowledge that Europe's difficulties could worsen 
in the coming year, with many EU countries mired in recession. 
We remain confident that our strategy to expand internationally 
adequately addresses these risks, and as a result we are cautiously 
optimistic that our current growth rates will be sustained, especially 
given our clear objectives, strong management, and talented 
employees. We anticipate continued good underlying earnings 
growth in this new financial year. 
It just remains for me to express my appreciation to my fellow Board 
members for their contribution and support, not just during this year 
but since I have been Chairman, and to say how grateful I am for the 
confidence of our shareholders, customers and suppliers. 
I save my final words for our employees. In the challenging global 
economic climate of recent years, everyone within Synergy has 
shown resilience and dedication, and there is so much enthusiasm 
and commitment for what we do that it is impossible not to be 
inspired. I have greatly enjoyed my time at Synergy, and I wish the 
Group and all our employees every success in the future.
Robert Lerwill 
Chairman
7 June 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements