 08
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
chaIRman's statEmEnt
r esults
We are pleased to report that performance in the second half 
of the year has been somewhat better than we anticipated 
when we released our cautious trading and legal update in 
November 2011.
Underlying operating profit (defined as in previous years before 
amortisation of intangibles and share option related charges) 
but also before non-recurring costs of  0.4 million for the 
Measham case and HMRC assessments were at the top end of 
our expectations at  1.27 million (2010:  1.35 million).
This has been achieved in a continuing difficult business 
environment with new car registrations showing a further 
decline of over 4%. Taking this into account, we believe that 
the results for the year are credible and underline both the 
value of our product offerings and the financial strength of our 
Company with its  26 million of total sales and a very low level 
of bank debt.
Adjusted earnings per share, applying a standard tax charge 
of 26% to the underlying operating profit after interest of  1.21 
million, are 8.65 pence (2010: 9.0 pence). The accompanying 
Finance Review reconciles underlying profits as stated above 
with the statutory figures in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income which show: operating loss  0.2 
million (2010:  0.22 million profit), loss before tax  0.26 million 
(2010:  0.13 million profit) and basic loss per share of 1.73 
pence (2010: 0.83 pence profit).
operating r eview and segmental analysis
We continue to operate our activities in two distinct segments:
    automotive services (incorporating Autoclenz/PINNACLE 
valeting, AC SMART, READY TO RENT and MOVEMENTS
    specialist cleaning services/REACT
automotive services
Despite intense price pressure and a lack of underlying growth 
in the market we are pleased to report that we exceeded our 
internal budgets with sales and gross profit of  25 million and 
 5.3 million respectively, which is broadly consistent with 2010. 
We successfully renegotiated and retained two of our major 
customer contracts   one in the auction sector and the other 
in our PINNACLE valeting business. Despite some reduction 
in margin, this gave us longer term stability and in the case of 
PINNACLE additional annualised sales of over  1 million.
Our MOVEMENTS collection and delivery business has 
continued to go from strength to strength after overcoming the 
teething costs in 2010 of the major Northern expansion. It fits 
neatly with our READY TO RENT business which has suffered 
from recessionary markets.
Our SMART Repair business has significantly improved its 
profit contribution and we continue to see this as an important 
growth opportunity.
As ever, we have no lack of competition and in recessionary 
times those who cut corners and offer uneconomic pricing 
may make short term gains. We believe in maintaining our 
reputation for the highest quality and presentational standards 
(as confirmed by independent market research commissioned 
by us) and this gives a real benefit both to our automotive 
customers and their retail and fleet customers. We believe our 
strong financial position and adherence to high professional 
and ethical standards helps us maintain our leadership 
position in automotive valeting.
w e are pleased to report a further year of stable revenues alongside difficult market conditions. 
having put behind us the legal and related costs of the measham case and stopped the property 
cleaning losses our aim is to continue to deliver a satisfactory financial performance in 2012. 
DID yoU Kn O W ?
w e valeted 690,416 cars in 2011 09
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
Our Governance Our Financials
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
Our PerF ormance Our Business
We have a number of positive initiatives in place for the current 
year:
    Additional sales resource will be devoted to growing our 
SMART business where we have identified a number 
of opportunities. We will continue to make a similar 
investment in our MOVEMENTS/READY TO RENT business 
to build on the additional contribution which we believe 
exists in all three of these businesses.
    Enterprise teams have been set up to drive for value 
added services in our existing customer base, allowing 
our valeting sales force to concentrate on seeking new 
customers.
    Key Performance Indicators with operational and 
financial benchmarks have been rolled out throughout 
the Company. The combination of KPIs and management 
development programmes together with detailed profit 
and loss accountability are key to the business model and 
delivering the objectives of the Company; they enhance 
both our customer's experience from using our services, 
and the Company performance and profitability whilst 
maintaining our valuable business model over the longer 
term.
    We have successfully invested in external training for 
senior management, and this is now being extended down 
to the next tier. Over the past years all of our management 
team have managed the business through difficult and 
trying times. The actions we have taken collectively 
have allowed us to retain customers and improve their 
experience. These collective efforts have enabled us to 
overcome these recent challenges and leave us with a 
cash generative business, with a low level of external debt 
which is forecast to be repaid within the next 18 months.
t ran S f orming P ER f OR manc E
Performance Graph
DID yoU Kn O W ?
w e collected or delivered 160,000 vehicles in 2011
DID yoU Kn O W ?
w e purchased:
2,757 pairs of trousers in 2011
A service offering that commenced in 2008 
with a few loss making contracts has been 
transformed into a profitable business with 
consistent sales growth.
Conventional vehicle collection or delivery 
uses two cars and two drivers, so it's easy to 
see why it's an expensive use of labour, time 
and resources such as fuel. Our pioneering 
initiative, Movements in Autoclenz, changes all 
that, instead using a single driver and a small, 
fuel-efficient, highly manoeurable fold-away 
motorcycle carried in the boot of the vehicle 
being delivered. It's a 21st century solution 
that's perfect for a clean and cost-effective 
getaway, especially in congested city centres 
where space and traffic are always against you.
We embarked upon an expansion plan for our movements 
Division to move its service footprint to cover the north of 
england.
There were obvious risks attached to this expansion as we 
successfully gained over  1 million of new business that 
necessitated us taking on over 100 people under TuPe.
The strategic move was complex but the collective efforts of 
our management have turned this loss making business into a 
positive contributor in 2011. We have now recruited a specialist 
with the specific task of continuing to grow this business 
throughout the uK.
Strategy IN ACTIoN
movEmENTS
2010
3,890
2011
4,465
Performance Graph Performance Graph 10
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
chaIRman 's s tatEmEnt continued
specialist cleaning
Sales and gross profit from these activities increased in 
aggregate to  1.7 million (2010:  1.4 million) and  0.8 million 
(2010:  0.7 million) respectively. However, a much improved 
performance from our traditional REACT Rapid Response/
decontamination business was unfortunately more than 
offset by unacceptable losses of  0.17 million from React 
Property Services which provides cleaning and clearance for 
housing associations and local authorities. As explained in our 
November update all these unprofitable activities have now 
been curtailed.
the Measham case   the final chapter
We have endured significant costs and disruption from the 
Measham case which started with an industrial tribunal in 2008 
and ended with the unfavourable Supreme Court judgment 
in July 2011. We are pleased to report that we have made 
significant progress towards concluding negotiations with 
various parties in recent weeks.
We have agreed assessments in principle with HMRC and 
accrued for the resultant liability for PAYE and NIC. We have 
now received the financial claims from our valeters who 
brought the case and from their legal team   whilst these are 
still the subject of ongoing negotiation and robust arguments in 
our favour, we have continued to accrue for what we believe will 
be a realistic settlement with the parties concerned. The cost 
of expenditure and accruals made in the 2011 year were  0.4 
million (2010:  68,000) which covers both parties' legal costs, 
HMRC assessments and claims from valeters. Whilst one can 
never be certain of this until final agreement is reached, we do 
believe that any future variance from this accrual level will not 
be material in the context of our ongoing results.
As stated above, the total cost of accruals and expenditure 
charged against the 2011 operating profit for the above 
matters is the very significant amount of  406,000. Apart from 
the financial cost, this whole affair has been a very serious 
disruption and expenditure of senior management time. 
With matters now largely concluded we are delighted to be 
able to refocus our full energies on improving our financial 
performance and growing our Company.
finance and dividend
Our long record of good cash generation has continued with 
year end net debt at a historic low of  0.3 million (2010:  0.8 
million) which makes us one of the strongest companies in 
our industry. Being listed on the AIM market with its detailed 
reporting requirements does of course give our private 
company competitors a lot of useful knowledge about our 
performance and strategies, and also entails a degree of extra 
overhead and management resource. We continue to monitor 
this, particularly in the light of the relatively low market 
valuation accorded to a number of profitable smaller AIM 
companies like us.
We expect another year of good operating cash generation 
which should more than cover the accrued liabilities of some 
 0.5 million which will fall due for payment on completion 
of the negotiations referred to above. Interest charges fell to 
 58,000 with interest cover of 21 times based on our underlying 
operating profit. We enjoy a continuing good relationship with 
our bankers HSBC who during 2011 renewed our working 
capital facility of  3 million until June 2014.
We are pleased to propose again a final dividend of 1.00 pence 
per share (2010:1.00 pence). Subject to approval at the AGM 
to be held on 16 May 2012, this dividend will be paid on 1 June 
2012 to Shareholders on the register at 27 April 2012 and the 
shares will become ex dividend on 25 April 2012.
outlook
We are not anticipating any significant improvement in market 
conditions. Having put behind us the legal and related costs of 
the Measham case and stopped the Property Cleaning losses 
our aim is to deliver a satisfactory financial performance.
James Leek
Non-Executive Chairman
DID yoU Kn O W ?
w e purchased:
1,769 sweatshirts
www.autoclenz.co.uk
find out 
more