 02 Syntopix Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 Syntopix has continued to make progress in positioning itself as a speciality 
pharmaceutical research and development company. 
Summary
C  we Have added to our Library of potentiaL 
druG candidateS durinG tHe year. 
C  StudieS currentL y in proGreSS are due to 
be compLeted before tHe end of 2007. 
C  furt Her Human u Se Studie S are p Lanned for 2008 and 
wiLL invoL ve at LeaSt one new teSt compound. 
C  we are continuinG to deveL op Good reLationSHipS 
witH potentiaL partnerS in tHe pHarmaceuticaL 
and coSmetic induStrieS. 
introduction
During the second year as a public company, following our AIM flotation 
in March 2006, Syntopix has continued to make progress in positioning 
itself as a speciality pharmaceutical research and development company. 
We seek to identify antimicrobial compounds and develop products that 
treat dermatological conditions, principally acne and staphylococcal 
infections including those due to MRSA. Syntopix searches for antimicrobial 
compounds and synergistic combinations of compounds that already 
have a history of use in man. We aim to reduce the high risks and costs 
of early drug discovery and reduce the lead-time to market normally 
associated with conventional drug development. We are committed to 
improving the health and appearance of our consumers by offering safe 
and effective treatments of the highest quality, thereby creating value for 
our shareholders and other stakeholders.
cHairman and cHief executive'S Statement
dr rod adamS
cHairman (Left)
dr StepHen joneS 
cHief executive officer (riGHt) 03 Syntopix Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The prescription market for dermotologicals is in excess of $11 billion, 
with the acne market share representing over $2.5 billion of these sales. 
The medicated skin-care market is worth $10 billion, with sales for acne 
products in excess of $1 billion. In 2005 the number of patients requiring 
acne treatments in Western Europe, the USA and Japan was estimated 
to be 142 million (Source: Business Insights Ltd, EuroMonitor International).
Dermatological anti-infective treatments have a market value of $3.5 billion, 
with superficial Staphylococcus aureus (S.aureus ) infections accounting 
for approximately 14% of this total. The number of patients in 2005 requiring 
treatment for infectious diseases in Western Europe, the USA and Japan 
has been estimated at greater than 116 million (Source: Business Insights Ltd). 
The management of these infections and the prophylaxis of nasal carriage 
continues to rely heavily on antibiotics with the associated concerns about 
resistance. Our approach uses synergistic combinations of antimicrobial 
compounds, thus combatting any issues of resistance.
The global market for the compounds we are identifying and 
developing is large. Additionally, we continue to seek alternative 
uses for our antimicrobial expertise, thereby expanding the commercial 
potential of our compounds.
During the year we have added to our library of potential drug candidates, 
which is now in excess of 1,100 compounds. We have continued to use 
the Syntopix screening process and have shown that approximately 30% 
of these compounds exhibit antimicrobial activity against the organisms 
that are key to our success, S.aureus and/or Propionibacterium acnes.
We have continued to carry out some consultancy and contract work this 
year but this has been at a very modest level, with a revenue of  30,962 
(2006:  31,914). However, the relationships that are nurtured through 
such activities are very valuable and could form the basis of future 
collaborations and partnerships. For this reason we intend to continue 
these activities.
tHe board
On 1 January 2007 the following Board changes were implemented: 
Dr Stephen Jones, formerly Chief Operating Officer, was promoted to 
Chief Executive Officer; Dr Rod Adams, formerly Chief Executive Officer, 
became Non-executive Chairman and Dr Gwyn Humphreys, formerly 
Non-executive Chairman, became Senior Non-executive Director.
During the year the Scientific Advisory Panel was strengthened 
by the addition of Professor Adrian Williams, a formulation expert.
 We are committed to improving the health and appearance of our consumers 
by offering safe and effective treatments of the highest quality, thereby creating 
value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.  04 Syntopix Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
reSearcH and deveL opment
We have made rapid progress in moving our lead compounds 
from research into clinical development. Earlier this year we reported 
and announced some aspects of our clinical development programme. 
Our first Phase I proof of principle human use study was conducted 
on SYN 0017 (an antioxidant present in foods and cosmetics), SYN 0401 
(an antifungal present in personal healthcare products) and a combination 
of SYN 0017 and SYN 0016 (an oxidizing agent present in pharmaceutical 
preparations). This study validated the Company's methodology for 
determining the potential of compounds as topical treatments for acne, 
with positive and negative controls performing as expected. The study 
also confirmed the safety and tolerability of all three test treatments 
in the skin environment. Although all the test treatments exhibited some 
antibacterial activity, with some modest activity sustained throughout 
the trial in one of the three treatment groups, further optimisation work 
will be required before the test treatments can proceed to later stages 
of clinical development.
A further human use study will start early in 2008 and will take into 
account the information obtained from the Phase I study results. 
This study is likely to include at least one new test compound.
Additionally, a Phase II proof of concept study started in June 2007, 
with 130 human subjects using Syntopix' library compounds SYN 0126 
(a compound currently used in a wide variety of cosmetic preparations) 
and a combination of SYN 0126 with SYN 0091 (a bacteriostatic agent 
used in soaps and cosmetics). This study will be completed before the 
end of 2007.
An in vivo study using a model system is planned for November 2007 
to determine the effectiveness of SYN 0017, SYN 0854, SYN 0564 and 
SYN 0017 in combination with SYN 0710 against the carriage of methicillin 
resistant S. aureus (MRSA  ). It is expected that the results will be available 
before the end of 2007.
These data will form the basis of commercial partnerships with third 
parties and will build upon the relationships that we are developing 
with our key customers. Licensing discussions will be initiated as soon 
as the clinical programme confirms the activity of our lead compounds. 
We continue to build and foster good relationships with potential partners 
in the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries and routinely update them 
of our progress.
 We have made rapid progress in moving our lead compounds from research into 
clinical development. 
cHairman and cHief executive'S Statement continued 05 Syntopix Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
inteLLectuaL property
Our intellectual property portfolio is critical for our success in licensing 
compounds and continues to focus and to grow. Currently we have one 
granted UK patent, three published patents and a further twelve patent 
applications which are not yet published. The portfolio is now being evaluated 
for worldwide coverage wherever appropriate, recognising the investment 
that is required to maintain such a portfolio. 
financiaLS
The post-tax loss for the year is  1,740,692 (2006:  927,678). The increase 
in the loss is attributable to the planned expansion of the research and 
development activity undertaken, including the completion of our first 
Phase I study and the commencement of a Phase II proof of concept 
study. The research and development expenditure has been carefully 
controlled and is within the budget set by the Board at the start of the 
financial year. The Group will apply for Research and Development tax 
credits in respect of qualifying expenditure.
Operating overheads remain at a similar level to the previous year. 
During the year the Company has adopted FRS 20 Share-based 
payment  for the first time and this has necessitated a charge to 
the profit and loss account of  115,965 in respect of the fair value 
of share options granted.
During the year, surplus cash balances have been invested in short term 
deposit accounts to maximise returns and this has resulted in increased 
bank interest receivable of  100,678 (2006:  53,993).
In accordance with the new European Union regulations, the Group will 
be required to prepare its interim financial statements for the period ending 
31 January 2008 in accordance with IFRS. The Group is currently reviewing 
the changes to its current accounting policies that will be required on adoption 
of IFRS and has a project plan in place to ensure full compliance with all 
the relevant standards when they become effective.
outL ook
We continue to invest in our discovery pipeline to fuel our development 
programmes and take the most promising candidates into human use studies. 
We are confident that these studies will deliver data that will convince potential 
partners of the commercial attractiveness of our compounds in treating 
dermatological conditions, principally acne and staphylococcal infections. 
We enter the current year with increasing momentum and look forward 
to further news flow during the next twelve months.
dr rod adamS
cHairman
dr StepHen joneS
cHief executive officer
17 october 2007
  We continue to invest in our discovery pipeline to fuel our development 
programmes and take the most promising candidates into human use studies. 