 Chairman's Statement
Turnover increased to  669.5 million
(2001:  469.6 million), a rise of 42.6%.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items increased by 50.7% to
 40.7 million (2001:  27.0 million).
Reg Heath, Chairman
2 AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
2002 was another excellent year for the Company, with
the business reporting further significant growth despite
softening markets in the last quarter. The main focus
during the year was the completion of the integration of
the major acquisitions made during 2001 and the
continuation of our efforts to capitalise fully on the
benefits from those acquisitions. These businesses have
been integrated successfully, although the restructuring of
Axial France has been greater than originally planned to
address the downturn in the French market which began
during the last quarter of the year.
In addition, the Group has continued to grow its core
businesses. A number of important new customers were
secured in both the UK and Mainland Europe and key
contracts with existing customers were renewed.
During 2002, new car registrations across Europe fell by
2.9% compared with 2001 and our businesses have had to
work hard to mitigate the impact of these market conditions.
Our focus on increasing the flexibility in the Group's cost
base, particularly on bringing our continental European
businesses in line with the UK benchmark, continued.
Results
The Group's financial performance during the year remained
strong despite difficult market conditions. Both turnover and
pre-tax profits were significantly ahead of the previous year,
due to a combination of organic growth and a full year
contribution from the businesses acquired in 2001.
Turnover increased to  669.5 million (2001:  469.6 million),
a rise of 42.6%. Operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items increased by 50.7% to
 40.7 million (2001:  27.0 million). Excluding the impact of
the acquisitions made during the prior year, organic growth
in turnover was 7.5%.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items increased by 24.7% to 48.57p 
(2001: 38.96p, restated following the introduction of
FRS19 - Deferred Taxation).
On a statutory basis, the Group reported an operating profit
increase of 41.3% to  29.4 million (2001:  20.8 million)
and a basic earnings per share increase of 8.1% to 24.46p
(2001: 22.63p, as restated).
Dividend
A final dividend of 7.50p (2001: 6.90p) per share is
recommended by the Board, which, if approved, will make
a total for the year of 11.10p (2001: 10.20p). The final
dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval at
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, on 9 May 2003
to shareholders on the Register on 4 April 2003.
Business Review
The Group has continued to generate organic growth
during the year both in its core businesses and by
developing new services.
Revenue in the core businesses of Technical Services and
Distribution Services increased against a background of
declining manufacturer volumes across Europe. Although
some markets fared better than others (with the UK 
being notably more buoyant) and the Group's customer
base included many of the stronger manufacturers,
European new car registrations in 2002 fell by nearly 3%
compared with 2001. AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 3
Distribution
services Chairman's Statement
(Continued)
In the UK, 2002 saw an increase in turnover 
of 30.2%, while, in our businesses in Mainland
Europe, turnover increased by 49.3%.
4 AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Against this background, our businesses have performed
remarkably well. In the UK, 2002 saw an increase in
turnover of 30.2%, while, in our businesses in Mainland
Europe, turnover increased by 49.3%. As expected, the
operations have been affected by significant restructuring
which was implemented to integrate the acquired
businesses. While our initial targets were achieved on time,
further restructuring within our businesses in France and
Benelux will be required to address the impact of continuing
economic uncertainty and softening within these markets.
Considerable efforts have also been made, and are ongoing,
to bring the productivity and flexibility of the acquired
businesses in line with our benchmark UK operations.
Throughout the Group's operations, in anticipation of
further pressure on volumes during 2003, management
has continued to keep costs under tight control.
Compagnie d'Affr tement et de Transport SA ( CAT'), in
which the Company holds a 40% interest, has performed
well during the year, delivering results exceeding our
expectations, at the same time as implementing a  social
plan' which significantly reduced its fixed cost base. In line
with the Business Plan at the time of the acquisition, CAT
will continue its cost reduction efforts through 2003 as
well as continuing to develop its customer base.
Key management appointments were made within the
business to strengthen the operational team.
At the operational level, our management have also
worked closely with their counterparts within CAT to
identify and share synergy benefits and both AutoLogic
and CAT are continuing to investigate opportunities across
the two groups to establish a closer working relationship
and to identify synergies and efficiencies to the mutual
benefit of both businesses.
Board and Management
As previously announced, the Group has strengthened its
board and management team, making a number of
significant management appointments during the year.
Gilles Guinchard was appointed to the Board as Group
Managing Director with effect from 1 July 2002. Gilles
was previously with Rexel, where he held a variety of
senior management roles including CEO positions at its
French and US operations. Prior to joining Rexel he had
held senior management roles at Boussois SA, PPG
Industries and BPB Industries.
Chris French was appointed as an additional Non-
Executive Director with effect from 1 September 2002.
Chris has over thirty years business experience across a
number of diverse industry sectors including distribution,
retailing, services and finance and has extensive
knowledge of the information technology industry.
On a personal note, I have decided to retire as Chairman
with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Having joined AutoLogic as Chairman in 1996, I have
witnessed the Group grow from a small UK distribution
company to become the leading European force in land-
based finished vehicle logistics and feel confident that the
Group is well placed to continue its success into the future.
John Merry, Deputy Chairman and Group Chief Executive,
will become Executive Chairman and Gilles Guinchard,
Group Managing Director, will become Group Chief
Executive, in both cases with effect from the conclusion of
the AGM. I wish them both continued success and would
like to record my thanks both to my fellow Directors and
the staff at AutoLogic for their loyalty and to our
shareholders for their support during the past 6
1
/2 years.
In the light of the proposed appointment of John Merry as
Chairman, a senior independent Non-Executive Director
will be appointed prior to the AGM.
Turnover
 m
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
99 00 01 02 Technical 
services
AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 5
Outlook
Since the year-end, the Group has continued to seek to
grow its business.
Customer volumes in the first quarter of 2003 have been
weaker than market forecasts, supporting our view that
the new car market is likely to soften further in 2003
across Europe. This underlines the importance for the
Group to continue and extend its flexible business model
and maintain downward pressure on costs. In order to
achieve this, the Group will need to incur further
restructuring costs during the coming year.
During the year, AutoLogic conducted a detailed strategic
analysis of its business and how it might be developed
into the future. This review encompassed existing service
offerings, new business areas and the geographical scope
of the business. Specific action plans have been identified
to extend the penetration of our existing core product
offerings of Technical Services and Distribution Services
both within our current customer base and to new
customers. Progress has already been made in assessing
and pursuing several identified new business opportunities
outside the Group's existing core services and it is hoped
that some of these will be operational during the current
year. These include exploiting the reform of the EU Block
Exemption for motor distribution and opportunities arising
out of the implementation of increasing EU regulation of
the vehicle market.
While the potential impact of current economic and world
events on the vehicle logistics market demand that the
Company approaches 2003 with a degree of caution, its
flexible business model, leading position in the European
market and a number of exciting and innovative growth
opportunities mean that AutoLogic remains well placed to
cope with these challenges and to continue the successful
development of its business.
Reg Heath Chairman
10 April 2003