  
SYNTOPIX GROUP PLC  |  3 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's report  
 
 
Introduction 
The Group's strategy remains consistent and is to deliver 
compounds in clinically proven formulations to the cosmetic 
and consumer markets, enabling Syntopix to gain early 
revenue streams whilst providing  ownable technologies' to 
our partners.   
 
The Board is pleased to report that the Group has achieved 
revenues of  151,000 (2009:  190,000) following entry into 
further commercial agreements with new and existing 
partners.  The Group continues to strengthen its 
relationships with potential partners and its key customers.   
 
Following close control of overheads, operating costs have 
been reduced, resulting in a lower operating loss this year of 
 1,106,000 (2009:  1,292,000).  
 
Fund raise 
In March 2010, the Group announced a successful fund 
raise of  2,008,000 (approximately  1,920,000 net of 
expenses) pursuant to a placing of 2,997,013 ordinary 
shares of 10 pence each in the Company at an issue price 
of 67 pence per share.   
 
The purpose of this fund raise was to enable the Group to 
undertake further human use studies with its lead 
compounds during 2010 and 2011 and to continue its 
development programme.  Both new and existing 
shareholders participated in the placing. 
 
Commercial agreements 
In April 2010, the Group announced an agreement with 
Sinclair Pharma plc (Sinclair ) to work together on the 
identification of an anti-microbial compound to synergise 
and augment the activity of a key product for Sinclair.  This 
was followed up with a second agreement in October 2010, 
building on the success of the first one.   
 
Sinclair has contracted with the Group to further the 
development of combination formulations using Sinclair's 
ingredients and some potentially synergistic anti-microbial 
compounds owned by Syntopix.  The Group will receive 
royalty revenues if any of the resulting formulations for oral 
health and other medical applications are commercialised. 
 
 
In August 2010, Syntopix entered into an exclusive 
agreement with a world leading company in marketing 
home, health and personal care brands.  Syntopix has 
granted the rights of first refusal to this company to 
negotiate a separate agreement for further development and 
eventual commercialisation of a compound currently 
undergoing clinical evaluation.  Syntopix expects to receive 
payments throughout this clinical phase. 
 
Markets and opportunities 
The Group's opportunities are principally in the areas of 
acne, oral hygiene (for the treatment of gingivitis), hair care 
(dandruff) and deodorants (body odour), targeting both the 
medicinal and, principally, consumer healthcare markets.  
 
The Group believes that there is a major global demand for 
antimicrobial compounds in the consumer healthcare 
market.  The acne, oral hygiene, hair care and deodorant 
markets are all  multi-billion pound global opportunities, with 
multiple brands and companies competing within each 
sector.  The Group is committed to discovering, developing 
and delivering antimicrobial compounds for the treatment of 
these conditions to take advantage of these large market 
opportunities. 
 
Syntopix now has a proprietary database of over 3,000 
compounds, the majority of which have been extensively 
characterised for their antimicrobial properties.  A variety of 
both microbes and screening methods have been employed 
in-house to generate the data that populate this database, 
which the Group believes has significant potential for 
identifying new antimicrobial compounds that could be of 
use in the market sectors of interest.   
 
Strategy 
The global markets that the Group has identified are 
significant but, due to the restrictive cost of discovering safe 
compounds, there has historically been a lack of innovation. 
In addition, some of the antimicrobial compounds presently 
in use are increasingly linked to concerns about 
environmental toxicity and/or bacterial resistance.   
 
Syntopix's approach is to identify and develop cost-effective 
alternative compounds and methodologies which overcome 
these issues and which reduce the high risks and costs of 
early compound discovery.  At the same time, the Group 
aims to reduce the lead-time to market normally associated 
with conventional product development. 
 
 
   
4  | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's report  
continued 
 
 
The Group is developing antimicrobial compounds and 
discovering synergistic combinations of those compounds 
that already have a history of use in man.  This reduces 
much of the risk associated with developing new 
compounds and speeds up the process of getting the 
compounds to market.  Therefore these types of compounds 
are an attractive commercial proposition for the Group's key 
customers and potential partners. 
 
The strategy therefore continues to focus upon leveraging 
the Group's antimicrobial compound library and intellectual 
property portfolio and expanding its opportunities into 
broader areas within dermatological and consumer 
healthcare markets, thereby offering a much faster route to 
market than developing prescription medicines.  
 
Product development 
During the year Syntopix has added selectively to its library 
of potential development candidates, which is now in excess 
of 3,000 compounds.  The Group's screening process has 
shown that approximately 30% of these compounds exhibit 
antimicrobial activity against the key organism which causes 
acne, Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes).  
 
Additionally, the Group has expanded its screening 
programmes to include the identification of antimicrobial 
compounds for use in consumer healthcare applications 
including oral care, body odour (deodorants) and fungal 
infections such as dandruff.  The Group is also using more 
sophisticated screening processes to assess the fitness-for-
purpose of candidate compounds for different applications. 
All of this data is being captured in a database, the 
commercial application of which is being assessed. 
 
Key to the successful delivery of any compound is getting it 
to the required site of action.  For example, for acne the 
compound must be present in the follicular ducts of the skin 
where P.acnes reside.  For treating body odour, the 
compound should be retained for a period of time in the 
stratum corneum, in order to exert its effect.  Syntopix has 
made considerable progress in optimising the delivery 
systems that are used for our candidate compounds, which 
has resulted in several patent filings.   
It is anticipated that this technology will improve the efficacy 
of compounds when applied to human skin and will continue 
to be investigated, both for existing applications as well as 
for its wider application for the delivery of compounds for 
use in the consumer healthcare businesses that are of 
interest to the Group. 
 
Syntopix continues to make good progress in moving its 
lead compounds from research into clinical development.  In 
the treatment of acne, SYN0126 in the presence of 
SYN0040 has previously been discussed as having a 
significant effect on both non-inflamed and total lesions after 
two weeks of treatment, which became highly significant 
after eight weeks.   
 
Additionally, the Group's proprietary laboratory screening 
techniques have identified a highly potent compound 
(SYN1113) that has great potential for the treatment of acne 
and because it is coloured green and is a  natural' 
compound, the Board believes that it could offer significant 
consumer appeal.  Initial human use studies have 
demonstrated significant killing of P.acnes, and Phase II 
studies are now underway, using a novel delivery system 
(patents applied for).  This compound and its novel vehicle, 
are the subjects of an exclusivity agreement with a world 
leader in personal care brands.  
 
SYN0269 and SYN0129 have been shown to be synergistic 
against the key bacteria responsible for body odour and a 
patent application has been prepared.  It has attracted 
considerable interest from consumer healthcare companies 
which market deodorants and it is anticipated that this 
combination of compounds will be the subject of an 
agreement later in 2010 or in early 2011. 
 
 
   
SYNTOPIX GROUP PLC  |  5 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's report  
continued 
 
 
Intellectual property 
The Group's intellectual property portfolio is critical for its 
success in licensing compounds and continues to grow 
and become more focused.  Currently our patent portfolio 
comprises 25 core patents/applications. Of these, 12 are 
granted in the UK, 4 are published applications and 8 are 
awaiting publication.  Overall, the Group's portfolio has a 
total of 44 patents/applications across key international 
territories.  Each case in the portfolio is continually 
evaluated for commercial opportunity. 
 
Outlook 
The Group is committed to developing safe and effective 
products for use in both medicinal and consumer 
healthcare markets by continuing to seek new uses for its 
antimicrobial expertise and through expansion of the 
commercial potential of its compounds.  Syntopix's 
strategy and approach to identifying new antimicrobial 
compounds has created innovative opportunities for its 
commercial partners in the global consumer healthcare 
market.  
 
The Group continues to invest in its discovery pipeline to 
fuel its development programmes and to take the most 
promising candidates into human use (clinical) studies.  To 
maximise the value of the Group's portfolio, it now needs 
to develop the most promising compounds into product 
candidates.  The Board is confident that these clinical 
studies will deliver data that will convince potential 
partners that Syntopix's compounds have a commercial 
future in the treatment of dermatological and consumer 
healthcare conditions. The funds raised from the recent 
issue of equity are being used to enable the Group to fulfil 
and deliver this strategy.  
 
Additionally, the agreements that have been signed 
recently, together with the discussions we are having with 
other potential licensees, validate the Group's belief that 
the antimicrobial compounds within its portfolio have a 
broad range of applications in these very large commercial 
markets.   
 
The Group enters the current year with a cash balance of 
 1,737,000 and is optimistic that further beneficial 
commercial opportunities will result from the Syntopix 
programmes over the next twelve months. 
  
 
 
 
T Bannatyne, Chairman 
 
 
SP Jones, Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
29 November 2010 
 
 