 17722	 06/05/2010	 Proof	5
1
Chairman's statement
I	am	pleased	to	present	our	results	for	the	year	ended	 	
31	 January	 2010.
When	 we	 started	 the	 financial	 year	 in	 February	 2009,	 trading	
conditions	were	difficult	in	an	uncertain	economic	climate.	
Retailers	were	unsure	of	demand	and	consequently	were	
de-stocking	 some	 product	 lines	 and	 buying	 others	 cautiously.	
The	trend	towards	direct	deliveries	(FOB 	sales)	to	our	
customers	 arranged	 by	 our	 Hong	 Kong	 office,	 which	 exclude	
distribution	costs,	continued.	This	has	the	effect	of	reducing	
revenue	for	the	same	quantities	sold.	Despite	these	factors,	
we	 continued	 to	 follow	 our	 strategy	 of	 maintaining	 profitability,	
to	 reduce	 borrowings	 and	 to	 strengthen	 the	 balance	 sheet.	 I	
am	 therefore	 pleased	 to	 report	 that	 revenue	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 	
31	 January	 2010	 increased	 1.5%	 to	  35,678,000	 from	  35,161,000	
in	 the	 prior	 year.	 There	 was	 a	 profit	 before	 goodwill	 impairment	
and	taxation	of	 1,023,000	compared	to	 1,018,000	last	year.	
Profit	after	goodwill	impairment	and	before	taxation	was	
 1,023,000	 (2009	 -	  593,000).
Basic	earnings	per	share	was	17.67p	per	share	compared	
with	5.34p	last	year,	after	adjusting	for	the	share	capital	
reorganisation	 that	 took	 place	 in	 September	 2009.
The	balance	sheet	continues	to	strengthen	with	cash	less	
invoice	 finance	 liability	 as	 at	 31	 January	 2010	 being	  1,190,000,	
an	 improvement	 of	  1,658,000	 over	 the	 previous	 year.
We	 do	 not	 propose	 to	 pay	 a	 dividend	 but	 will	 keep	 the	 position	
under	 review.	
Further	 details	 of	 the	 operational	 activities	 can	 be	 found	 in	 the	
Business	 review	 on	 page	 3.
Share capital reorganisation
The	 share	 capital	 reorganisation	 was	 approved	 by	 shareholders	
at	a	General	Meeting	held	on	24	September	2009.	Before	
the	reorganisation	the	Company	had	approximately	17,500	
shareholders,	a	large	proportion	owning	a	small	number	
of	shares	that	would	be	uneconomic	to	sell.	As	part	of	the	
reorganisation	 small	 shareholders	 were	 able	 to	 receive	 cash	
for	 their	 shares	 without	 incurring	 dealing	 costs.	 The	 Company	
was	 also	 able	 to	 purchase	 263,080	 of	 its	 own	 shares	 and	 hold	
them	in	treasury,	taking	the	total	shares	held	in	treasury	to	
519,080.	 Following	 the	 reorganisation	 we	 had	 fewer	 than	 5,000	
shareholders.	We	estimate	this	will	save	nearly	 50,000	per	
annum	 in	 administration	 costs.	
We	 will	 be	 sending	 out	 a	 letter	 in	 May	 to	 small	 shareholders	
giving	them	the	chance	to	sell	their	shares	without	dealing	
costs.
Pensions
The	 Group	 operates	 two	 pension	 schemes	 that	 have	 defined	
benefit	liabilities.	Both	of	these	schemes	have	no	active	
members	 and	 are	 closed	 to	 new	 members.	 Despite	 this,	 these	
schemes	 continue	 to	 utilise	 cash	 resources	 and	 management	
time	as	government	legislation	and	actuarial	views	change.	
During	the	year	 191,000	was	paid	into	the	schemes	to	
reduce	 the	 deficits	 in	 the	 funding	 and	 over	  76,000	 was	 paid	
out	in	government	levies	and	administration	costs.	Despite	
a	rise	in	the	value	of	investments,	changes	in	the	Actuary's	
mortality	 assumptions	 and	 discount	 rates	 have	 increased	 the	
net	 deficit	 in	 the	 schemes	 from	  964,000	 as	 at	 31	 January	 2009	
to	  1,450,000	 as	 at	 31	 January	 2010.
Employees
We	wish	to	thank	all	management	and	employees	for	their	
contribution	in	increasing	the	Group's	profitability	in	difficult	
times.	 The	 established	 team	 of	 management	 and	 staff	 have	 the	
skills	 required	 to	 take	 the	 business	 forward.
In	 the	 last	 few	 months	 we	 have	 appointed	 two	 non-executive	
Directors.	Their	biographies	are	shown	on	page	4.	Simon	
Morris	brings	a	wealth	of	City	experience	in	the	mid-cap	
corporate	 market	 and	 will	 no	 doubt	 be	 a	 valuable	 contributor.	
Andy	Bestwick	is	another	excellent	addition	to	the	Board,	
bringing	us	experience	in	areas	of	product	development,	
sourcing	and	sales	which	are	very	much	allied	to	those	 	
of	 Tandem.
I	 will	 not	 be	 standing	 for	 re-election	 at	 the	 AGM	 to	 be	 held	 on	
21	 June	 2010.	 Immediately	 following	 the	 AGM,	 Mervyn	 Keene	
will	be	appointed	non-executive	Chairman	of	the	Company.	
Mervyn	has	managed	the	Group	for	a	number	of	years	and	
has	 been	 responsible	 for	 leading	 the	 team	 that	 has	 delivered	
consistent	profitability	over	the	last	four	years,	with	profit	
before	tax	and	goodwill	impairment	of	over	a	million	pounds	
in	 each	 of	 the	 last	 three	 years.	 In	 addition,	 the	 balance	 sheet	
has	strengthened	considerably	with	the	profit	eliminating	
bank	 borrowings	 at	 31	 January	 2010.	 At	 the	 same	 time	 Steve	
Grant,	 our	 Commercial	 Director,	 will	 be	 appointed	 Group	 Chief	
Executive	 and	 Jim	 Shears,	 currently	 Group	 Financial	 Controller	
and	Company	Secretary,	will	be	appointed	Group	Finance	
Director.	I	am	confident	that	these	changes	will	continue	
to	 take	 the	 business	 forward	 and	 enable	 future	 growth	 	
and	 development. 2
17722	 06/05/2010	 Proof	5
EU Customs issues
A	number	of	European	bicycle	companies	have	received	
notification	 from	 the	 EU	 Customs	 authorities	 that	 Generalised	
System	 of	 Preferences	 (GSP)	 forms	 issued	 by	 the	 Cambodian	
government	 between	 2007	 and	 2009	 were	 invalid.	 The	 impact	
of	 this	 is	 that	 it	 is	 alleged	 duty	 should	 have	 been	 paid	 at	 the	
full	rate	rather	than	the	zero	rate	charged	at	the	time	of	the	
importation.	We	understand	that	those	companies	affected	
are	appealing	against	the	notification.	Although	we	have	
purchased	a	significant	number	of	bicycles	from	Cambodia	
we	 have	 not	 received	 any	 notice	 to	 this	 effect.	 If	 we	 receive	
such	 notice,	 it	 is	 the	 Board's	 intention	 to	 vigorously	 defend	 and	
appeal	 against	 it	 as	 we	 believe	 there	 is	 no	 liability	 and	 strongly	
consider	 that	 we	 have	 acted	 properly	 and	 in	 good	 faith	 at	 all	
times.	
We	have,	however,	received	notification	from	HM	Revenue	
&	Customs	affirming	their	intention	to	seek	confirmation	
from	 the	 authorities	 in	 Indonesia	 and	 Bangladesh	 that	
bicycles	purchased	from	these	countries	and	admitted	to	
the	United	Kingdom	at	a	preferential	rate	of	Customs	duty	
were	manufactured	there	in	accordance	with	the	rules	of	
origin.	Once	again	we	consider	that	we	have	acted	in	good	
faith	 in	 respect	 of	 these	 imports,	 in	 all	 cases	 having	 received	
preference	 certificates	 which	 have	 been	 issued	 by	 the	 proper	
authority	 in	 each	 exporting	 country.	 Over	 the	 last	 three	 years	
we	 have	 benefited	 from	 a	 reduction	 in	 duty	 of	 approximately	
 3	 million	 through	 GSP	 forms	 issued	 by	 foreign	 governments.
Outlook
The	Group	has	traded	well	during	a	very	difficult	economic	
period.	We	have	been	and	continue	to	be	faced	with	very	
significant	cost	pressures	in	respect	of	US	dollar	volatility,	
increases	in	freight	and	raw	material	prices,	shipping	line	
disruptions	and	Far	East	labour	shortages.	Sales	for	the	 	
12	 weeks	 to	 23	 April	 2010	 were	 24%	 up	 on	 the	 previous	 year.	
We	 believe	 this	 growth	 is	 unlikely	 to	 continue	 into	 the	 second	
quarter	as	we	received	a	large	order	for	bicycles	from	a	
national	 retailer	 in	 the	 comparative	 period	 last	 year.	 We	 have	
secured	 business	 from	 the	 same	 retailer	 this	 year	 but	 at	 lower	
volumes.
Revenue	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 January	 2011	 is	 currently	 expected	
to	 be	 slightly	 down	 on	 the	 previous	 year	 principally	 due	 to	 the	
reduction	 in	 national	 retailer	 sales	 on	 bicycles	 and	 competition	
from	new	licences	on	sports,	leisure	and	toys.	Gross	margin	
and	 profitability	 will	 also	 be	 under	 pressure	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	
issues	 referred	 to	 above.
In	spite	of	very	competitive	market	conditions,	we	have	
over	the	last	four	years	managed	to	maintain	profitability	
and	to	strengthen	our	balance	sheet.	Current	markets	are	
particularly	 challenging	 but	 the	 Group	 is	 now	 in	 a	 position	 to	
actively	explore	opportunities	for	growth	in	our	bicycles	and	
accessories	and	sports,	leisure	and	toys	businesses,	both	
organically	 and	 by	 acquisition.	
In	the	year	to	31	January	2010	the	sports,	leisure	and	toys	
business	was	significantly	more	profitable	than	bicycles.	
However,	although	this	sector	can	grow	profits	rapidly,	the	
nature	of	character	licences	make	it	far	more	volatile.	By	
contrast,	the	bicycle	business,	with	our	well	established	
brands,	 provides	 a	 platform	 for	 steady	 progression.	 We	 believe	
that	 the	 development	 of	 both	 businesses	 enhances	 the	 ability	
of	 the	 Group	 to	 achieve	 growth	 in	 the	 long	 term.
Further	 details	 about	 current	 trading	 and	 prospects	 are	
contained	 in	 the	 Business	 review	 on	 page	 3.
Graham Waldron
Chairman
28	April	2010
Chairman's statement continued