 Target Resources Plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 2
The year has been challenging for the Group
with revenues from the mining of diamonds of
just  412,175. The level of mining activity
conducted within the year was low due to the
transition period between the failure of the
previous mining contractors to mine
and process agreed tonnages 
of gravel and the con-
tracting of new 
mining
management
under the umbrella
of Minex Associates Group.
However, notable progress has been
made and we look forward with optimism.
During the year under review, the Group
had mining leases covering 4,263 acres in 3
chiefdoms in the Kono district of Sierra Leone
as follows:
  1,787 acres in Sandoh
  1,495 acres in Nimiyama 
  981 acres in Nimikoro 
  This gives a total leased area of 4,263 acres,
or 17.25 Sq km.
These mining leases are each held by a
localoperating subsidiary of the Group. Joint
Venture Agreements have been signed with
the respective Chiefdoms under which (in
the case of Nimiyama and Nimikoro) the Group
has 70% of the shares and the profits of the
subsidiary and the Chiefdom 30%. In the case
of Sandoh, where we are currently mining, the
Chiefdom has 11% of the official export value
of diamonds, instead of a profit share.
In the year under review, Target issued shares
amounting to US$1.6 million in March 2007
in connection with the acquisition of Pride
Diamonds LLC, and raised  5.2 million (net of
costs) through a placing of shares in October
2007. These funds, together with US$5 million
raised as debt finance from a subsidiary of
Tiffany & Co (as explained below), are being
utilised by the Group to finance plant and
machinery purchases, provide working capital
and repay a proportion of its debt.
For the year ended 31 October 2007, the Group
generated turnover of  412,175 (2006 -
 266,456) which resulted in a loss before tax of
 5,251,397 (2006 -  4,383,942). The loss per
share is 5.84p (2006 - 5.95p). The Group had
cash balances at the year end of  6,066,239
(2006 -  1,052,563).
The period was transitional between the
departure of the non-performing previous
mining contractor, The Three Captains Ltd,
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to present this year's review of the Group's operations. 
In October 2007 Target raised net proceeds of  7.7 million in equity
and debt financing, which are being used to fund the purchase of 
new equipment for diamond and gold production and working capital.
The Company also contracted a 10 year marketing agreement with
Tiffany & Co, the renowned jewellers, whereby Target's diamond 
output will be offered on a first refusal basis to Tiffany. Target Resources Plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3
who stopped operations in August 2006, and
the appointment of a new mining management
team recruited by Minex Associates Group in
November 2007. In the interim, the Company
continued independent mining but at the same
time realised the need for additional
equipment, to allow it to increase output and
to open further mining sites elsewhere in its
leased areas. The fundraising in late October
2007 brought  5.2 million to the Group for pur-
chasing further processing plant, earthmoving
and exploration equipment. As of the date of
this statement, all the necessary equipment has
been purchased and the last items will be
commissioned on site by June 2008. 
The new mining management, which was
appointed in November, includes professionals
in project management, process engineering,
metallurgy, river dredging and geology / geo-
physics, who compliment the Company's
existing staff.
Active prospecting using an innovative
technique known as Resonance Acoustic
Penetration Profiling  is now underway. The
process identifies potholes and depressions in
rock bars where diamond bearing gravels are
usually located. Drilling with an auger drill and
banka drills has also started, allowing us to
locate and map actual gravels.
We are encouraged by the size and quality of
the diamonds produced in the Group's mining
A special achievement
for our Group is the
strategic alliance with
Tiffany & Co, one of
the world's largest
and most respected
jewellery retailers.
areas to date, an average sale price per carat of
US$507 has been achieved. Exports of diamond
output are delivered to Laurelton Ltd, an
Antwerp based division of Tiffany & Co, under
the 10 year marketing agreement signed in
October 2007. All our diamonds are fully
certified under the Kimberley Process. 
A further optimistic development in 2007 has
been the added value of river dredging in
addition to land mining. In March 2007, Target
acquired Pride Diamonds, LLC, a US
incorporated company with small scale river
dredging capability. Following the fundraising
in October 2007, Target invested part of the
proceeds in ordering a cutter head dredge
which will allow the rivers within our lease
areas to be dredged on a large scale for
diamonds and gold, during the wet as well as
the dry season. Dredging is expected to make a
substantial contribution to fulfilling the
Group's mining targets in 2008/9.
Target also expects gold production to
contribute a sizeable income in future from
both land and dredge mining. 
A special achievement for our Group is the
strategic alliance with Tiffany & Co, one of 
the world's largest and most respected
jewellery retailers. As part of our October 
2007 fundraising, Laurelton Diamonds, Inc
(Laurelton ), a subsidiary of Tiffany & Co,
advanced a long term loan of US$5 million  4
to the Group in return for an exclusive, first
refusal, 10 year marketing agreement for
Target's diamond output. This alliance shows
the confidence of this ethically conscious
retailer in our Group, both for the quality of
our stones and the corporate social
responsibility policies which we implement. In
April 2008, Laurelton made a further short
term advance of US$2 million to Target and an
affiliate of Laurelton invested US$1 million in
new shares of Target.
Exclusive Prospecting Licences (EPL) were
granted in January 2008 as follows:
1. EPL for Gold and other minerals covering
520.45 sq. km (200.94 sq. miles) in the Tane
and Gbonkolenken Chiefdoms in the
Tonkolili District of the Northern Province of
Sierra Leone (Northern Province ). 
This licence lies between the Kangari Hills
on its east side and the Pampana and
Nasi Rivers on its west and north side
with the Teye River running near its
southern boundary.
The recovery of alluvial gold from this area
by small scale miners commenced in the
1930s and is still ongoing under the
Government Supervised Artisanal Gold
Mining Scheme. The Pampana, Wungi and
Teye Rivers have been proven to contain
interesting concentrations of alluvial gold in
their channels, flanking flats and terraces.
The licence area covers part of the largest
greenstone belt in Sierra Leone, which is
recognised as being highly prospective for
gold. This is supported by a United Nations
funded sampling programme in the
headwaters of the Nasi River in the 1980s,
which highlighted a number of primary gold
anomalies in the area. 
2. EPL for Diamonds, Gold and other precious
minerals and metals covering 253.57 sq. km
(97.88 sq. miles) in Faiyama Area, Nomo
Chiefdom, Kenema District in the Eastern
Province of Sierra Leone.
This licence lies along a 30 mile length of 
the Moro River which forms the border with
Liberia in the south east of Sierra Leone. 
It was previously held by Gondwana
Investments SA but was not explored. The
full width of the river is included within
the licence.
Chairman's Statement (continued)
This area is known
for coloured or 
so-called fancy 
diamonds, which
gain high market
value.
Target Resources Plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Target Resources Plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 5
This area is known for coloured or so-called
fancy  diamonds, which gain high market
value. These diamonds have been and are
still being recovered in the Makpele
Chiefdom downriver from the licence area,
and are thought to be derived from a
primary source different from those known
in the Kono and Tongo fields.
The presence of primary diamond sources
(kimberlites) has been revealed by recent
work on the land across the Moro River in
Liberia, by Mano River Resources Inc.
The Group intends to start prospecting of the
new licences shortly.
Target continues to foster good relations with
the people living on its leased areas by giving
help to local communities. We have built and
handed over three schools to the people of the
Kono district, and have helped with the
construction of roads in Sandoh Chiefdom. We
employ on average some 200 local people,
paying a fair wage and observing a policy of
gender equality. Rehabilitation of previously
mined areas has been largely completed.
Further details of our Corporate Social
Responsibility programme are outlined pages 8
to 10.
The directors remain focused on the
development and growth of the business, and
on achieving profitable mining operations at
an early date.
We are encouraged by
the size and quality of
the diamonds produced
in the Group's mining
areas to date, an average
sale price per carat of
US$507 having been
achieved.
Outlook
We look forward to putting our enhanced
earthmoving, dredging and processing
capacity to work to ratchet up production in
the coming months. 
We are also aiming to start exploring our major
new prospecting licences in the near future. 
Freddy Hager
Chairman
28 April 2008