 4 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Directors' Report: Business Review  
p02-27
Directors' Report: Governance 
p28-54
Financial Statements 
p55-105
Shareholder Information 
p106-116
4 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Chairman's statement
2011 performance 
Despite the ongoing challenges in the wider economy, T aylor Wimpey 
has made strong progress across a number of areas and it is pleasing 
to see this reflected in our financial performance.
We have increased profit from continuing operations before tax and 
exceptional items to  89.9 million (2010 loss:  15.9 million). After 
pre-tax exceptional charges for the year of  11.3 million (2010:  138.9 
million), the majority of which related to refinancing costs in both years, 
profit before tax from continuing operations for 2011 is  78.6 million 
(2010 loss:  154.8 million).
Sale of our North American business
We were in the process of evaluating proposals for the sale of our 
North American business at the time of last year' s Annual Report and 
announced an agreement to sell this business on 31 March 2011. 
Following receipt of your approval as shareholders and the satisfaction 
of a number of customary conditions, we completed the sale of the 
business on 13 July 2011.
This represents a very significant step towards our goal of becoming  
a UK-focused homebuilder as Pete Redfern explains in his Chief 
Executive' s Review on page 6. We now have a strengthened balance 
sheet and increased financial capacity to invest in the UK market  
and we are well positioned to deliver further margin improvement  
going forward.
Strategy and dividend
Following the sale of the North American business we have 
communicated our future strategy to stakeholders both internally  
and externally. Pete Redfern outlines this strategy in detail in his Chief 
Executive' s Review on pages 6 to 13 and a key element is taking a 
more active assessment of, and approach to managing, the market 
cycle. In the medium term, when opportunities in the land market are 
less attractive, we anticipate reducing the level of investment in our  
land portfolio and, therefore, generating significant cash flow from 
operations. At such points in the cycle, we intend to retain a proportion 
of these funds in order to maintain balance sheet strength and return 
the remainder to shareholders.
In the meantime, given the current outlook in the UK housing market, 
and the strength of the Group' s asset base, we are proposing a final 
dividend of 0.38 pence per share (2010: nil). This represents the final 
portion of a total dividend representing 1% of Net Asset Yield. Subject 
to shareholder approval at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on  
22 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 20 April 2012.
This dividend will be paid as a conventional cash dividend, but 
shareholders are once again being offered the opportunity to  
reinvest some or all of their dividend under a re-launched Dividend 
Re-Investment Plan, details of which can be found on page 110 of  
this Annual Report.
Corporate responsibility
As a major residential developer, we have social, ethical, environmental 
and economic responsibilities that we take extremely seriously. We 
continue to believe that corporate responsibility is an essential part of 
good governance and makes sound business sense, as well as being 
crucial for risk and opportunity management.
Ultimate responsibility for the delivery of our corporate responsibility 
strategy continues to rest with CEO Pete Redfern, with a Sustainability 
Steering Group coordinating sustainability activities at the operational 
level in line with the strategy. This group comprises seven senior 
personnel from relevant disciplines across our UK business and  
is chaired by a representative of the Group Management T eam.
2011 has been a 
transformational year  
for Taylor Wimpey. 
Kevin Beeston
Chairman
In 2011 the Company has:
 achieved the double-digit UK operating margin target  
in the second half of 2011, ahead of schedule;
 communicated a strategy to optimise the UK residential 
development business both internally and externally;
 completed the sale of the North American business;
 successfully restructured the Board;

 continued to improve the strength of the balance sheet, 
including selective investment in new land and buying back 
 85.4 million of our 10.375% Senior Notes due 2015. 5 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Directors' Report: Business Review  
p02-27
Directors' Report: Governance 
p28-54
Financial Statements 
p55-105
Shareholder Information 
p106-116
Executive remuneration remains in strong focus and we have taken 
what we believe to be a considered approach, including consulting with 
our major shareholders ahead of the publication of this Annual Report,  
in respect of the policies set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
39 to 50.
People and shareholders 
I said last year that I had been very impressed by my initial  
experiences of our business and people, and my opinions have  
only been strengthened by what I have seen over the last 12 months. 
Against a backdrop of significant economic uncertainty, our team has 
delivered an excellent operational and financial performance across  
the business which is a testament to their professionalism, customer 
focus, hard work and commitment.
Our new strategy sets us some challenging targets and, in order to 
ensure effective communication, Pete Redfern gave a series of 14 
presentations across the country to outline our approach to and seek 
feedback from employees in each of our 24 regional businesses and 
our head office. The Board looks forward to working with all of our 
employees to deliver our strategic goals over the coming years.
I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate the Board' s thanks 
to our former employees in North America for their hard work, loyalty 
and commitment over many years and, in particular, in relation to the 
sale process. We wish them every success in the future.
I enjoyed meeting with a number of shareholders on my appointment  
in July 2010, at the General Meeting in connection with the sale of the 
North American business and also at the Annual General Meeting last 
April. The Board values its dialogue with shareholders and their 
representative bodies, and remains vigilant and appropriately advised  
to your views.
Board changes
The sale of our North American business meant that the President, 
Sheryl Palmer, stood down from the Board in July 2011 and I would 
like to formally record the Board' s thanks for her significant contribution 
to the Group during our period of ownership of that business.
As I highlighted in my statement last year, Katherine Innes Ker and 
Andrew Dougal stood down at the AGM in April 2011, after more than 
nine years and eight years respectively, and the Board would like to 
record our thanks for their distinguished service as well.
James Jordan was appointed as an Executive Director in July 2011 
after nearly ten years of service for T aylor Wimpey plc and previously 
George Wimpey Plc. James played a significant role in the recent 
refinancings and the sale of the North American business and I am 
delighted to welcome him to the Board as Group Legal Director and 
Company Secretary.
I was also very pleased to welcome two new Non Executive Directors 
to the Board during 2011. Kate Barker, who joined with effect from  
21 April 2011, brings a wealth of economic and political experience as 
well as a detailed knowledge of the housing industry. Mike Hussey, who 
joined with effect from 1 July 2011, has an extensive knowledge of the 
property industry and both the London and national market, along with 
a proven strategic focus. Profiles of Kate and Mike are on page 29.
Kevin Beeston
Chairman
Corporate governance
Strong corporate governance and risk 
management are essential in challenging  
market conditions.
In line with the requirements of the UK 

externally facilitated and comprehensive 
independent assessment of the Board in 2011.
We welcome Lord Davies' review of women on 
boards. As recommended by the review, I was 
pleased to make a statement in the Half Year 

to diversity both generally and with regard  
to gender.
More information on our approach is contained 
within my statement on page 30 and the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to  

compliant with the Combined Code.
 For more information  
 see pages 30-38
Electronic communications
We make our Annual Report available 
electronically to those shareholders who have  
not requested a paper version. This has three  

 -
costs, without reducing the level of  
information available;
 - faster access to information; and
 - reducing the amount of resources consumed, 
such as paper, and lessening the impact  
of printing and mailing activities on  
the environment.
We also encourage shareholders to elect to receive 

documentation by means of an e-mail. 
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by 
logging onto our Web site. 
  plc.taylorwimpey.co.uk/InvestorRelations/ 
ShareholderInformation/
ElectronicCommunications.htm
Shareholder information
Full details of the facilities available to 
shareholders can be found on page 114 of  
this Annual Report and Accounts and at
  plc.taylorwimpey.co.uk/InvestorRelations/
ShareholderInformation 