 8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chairman's Statement
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company' s performance, business model and 
strategy. In line with corporate governance 
requirements, we have also enhanced our 
Audit Committee Report.
Delivering on our commitments
We remain committed to creating value for 
shareholders and delivering quality for all of  
our stakeholders. The cultural and process 
foundations are firm and this positions us  
well to achieve our vision to be the UK' s 
leading residential developer and to be the 
homebuilder of choice for our stakeholders.
We continuously review our strategy to make 
sure that it remains appropriate and aligned  
to the interests of shareholders and other 
stakeholders. Whilst the short term conditions 
have improved through 2013, our cautious  
and balanced strategy remains relevant  
and is working.
Our success in the year is undoubtedly  
thanks to the commitment and dedication  
of the 3,972 employees who make up the 
T aylor Wimpey team. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our employees for their 
efforts, hard work and dedication throughout 
2013. During 2013, Pete Redfern and the 
senior management team conducted a series 
of 13 strategy update sessions across the 
country, updating all employees.
The Board firmly believes that employees 
throughout the Company should have the 
opportunity to acquire their own personal stake 
in the business through share ownership. This 
naturally results in a greater sense of alignment 
with shareholders. In addition to reviewing and 
deepening our shareholding guidelines for 
senior management, we were also delighted 
that the most recent sharesave scheme saw a 
12% increase in take up with 1,184 employees 
participating. Currently 1,992 employees 
participate in one or both of our all-employee 
share plans, representing 53% of eligible 
employees. More details of our share schemes 
can be found on page 63.
Corporate responsibility
Our values and strong culture are at the heart 
of our success. As a Board, we are determined 
that T aylor Wimpey should be known for how 
we conduct ourselves as well as for our 
financial performance and, whilst we do not 
get everything right, these are responsibilities 
that we will continue to fully embrace and strive 
to enhance. For further information on our 
approach to corporate responsibility, please 
see our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 
which will be available from 21 March at 
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk
Corporate governance
Although our main objective is of course to 
deliver shareholder value, the way in which  
we deliver these returns is equally important  
to us. Good corporate governance and risk 
management are therefore essential and we 
have a strong track record of taking a 
considered approach in these areas. The 
policies and guidelines we have in place, 
2013 has been a great year 
for Taylor Wimpey.
Kevin Beeston
Chairman
2013 performance 
Once again I am very pleased to be able to 
report to you that we have delivered a 
significant improvement against all of our 
strategic objectives, resulting in a 38% increase 
in Group operating profit to  312.9 million  
(2012:  226.1 million), while continuing to 
strengthen the underlying quality of the business. 
We enter 2014 well placed for the future.
2013 reporting
We value open and honest dialogue and  
work hard to maintain high levels of trust and 
transparency with all of our stakeholders. This 
year' s Annual Report incorporates a number 
of improvements we have identified to make 
our strategy, business model and performance 
easier to understand, including better linkages 
between these three key factors (pages 14 to 
15). In addition, the Board welcomes and has 
adopted and embraced both the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and the reporting 
changes introduced by the Department of 
Business, Innovation and Skills. These include 
the Board' s confirmation that the Annual  Taylor Wimpey plc www.taylorwimpey.co.uk 9
Strategic Report p3-39 Directors' Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141
setting standards concerning ethics, sound 
business practices and wider governance,  
are regularly reviewed and can be found  
on our website.
I am satisfied that your Board continues to 
operate effectively and more information on 
what this means can be found within our 
Corporate Governance Report (on pages 
44 to 54). We are very alert to the need for fair 
and proportionate remuneration arrangements 
and again have consulted very constructively 
with our major shareholders and their 
representative bodies concerning both 2013 
and 2014 policy and practice.
As a Board we remain committed to linking 
reward to the longer term objectives of T aylor 
Wimpey and, in turn, the longer term interests 
of shareholders. This year , shareholders are, for 
the first time, invited to vote on both sections 
of the Remuneration Report - a binding vote 
on our policy and an advisory vote on its 
implementation during 2014 and our proposals 
for 2014. We set out more details on our policy 
in our Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 75.
Dividend
We are an asset based business and operate 
in a cyclical industry and so fundamentally 
believe that our dividend policy, as a key part 
of shareholder return, should reflect these two 
factors. We remain committed to paying a 
regular annual maintenance dividend, as we 
have for the last two years, of between 1-2% 
of net asset value. The 2013 final maintenance 
dividend of 0.47 pence (2012: 0.43 pence), 
if approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM), will be paid as a 
conventional cash dividend on 21 May 2014 
to shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 11 April 2014. Shareholders are 
once again being offered the opportunity to 
reinvest all of their dividend under the Dividend 
Re-Investment Plan (DRIP). More information 
can be found on page 136.
We can be a very cash generative business 
and how we best use that cash to achieve the 
optimum balance of reducing risk to protect 
the business and delivering the best quality of 
returns, largely depends on the cyclical risk 
and the land market, as well as the business 
position. We believe now is the time to 
commence cash returns and accordingly a 
special dividend of c. 50 million (1.54 pence 
per share) will be paid in 2014 and  200 million 
(c. 6.16 pence per share) in 2015. We have set 
out our policy in full on page 13. The 2014 
special dividend will be paid as a cash dividend 
on 3 July 2014 to all shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 6 June 2014. 
The DRIP will not be made available in respect 
of special dividend payments.
Diversity
We value diversity in every sense. We believe 
that establishing an organisational culture with 
diversity as a core value will better enable 
individuals to reach their full potential and 
provide a better service and representation to 
our customers. We also acknowledge that we 
must continue to promote diversity in order to 
create an organisation that attracts, supports 
and promotes the broadest range of talent.
Therefore, during the year we conducted  
our first independent diversity study of the 
business. This highlighted the positive culture 
within the organisation of which we are 
justifiably proud. However it also highlighted  
a number of areas where there is clearly room 
for improvement. Diversity and inclusion related 
matters have now been added as a regular 
agenda item for the Group Management T eam 
and we will focus on further implementing  
the recommendations of the study. Further 
information on our diversity policy can be  
found on pages 52 and 78.
Board changes
As previously reported, Baroness Brenda Dean 
of Thornton-le-Fylde stepped down from the 
Board as an Independent Non Executive Director 
(NED) at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM 
following nine years of dedicated service 
and again, I would like to thank her for her 
outstanding service. At that meeting we 
also welcomed Baroness Margaret Ford 
of Cunninghame to the Board as a NED 
and Margaret has already made a very 
valuable contribution. 
On 26 February 2014 we announced that 
Anthony (T ony) Reading MBE would be 
standing down from the Board at the 
conclusion of the 2014 AGM, again, after nine 
years of outstanding service. On behalf of the 
Board, I would also like to thank T ony for his 
invaluable contribution to the Board and 
especially his chairmanship of the Remuneration 
Committee, since the merger between George 
Wimpey and T aylor Woodrow in 2007, which 
will now be chaired by Margaret Ford. 
Finally , on behalf of the Board and shareholders 
I would like to thank our Executive Directors  
for their outstanding leadership of the business. 
I truly believe we have a team of the highest 
quality with the right experience, drive and 
perspective that will continue to position  
T aylor Wimpey as an excellent business for 
years to come.
Kevin Beeston
Chairman
Employee diversity
Senior Management diversity
Board diversity
Male 69% (2,732)
Female 31% (1,240)
Male 78% (7)
Female 22% (2)
Male 75% (6)
Female 25% (2)