 02 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Content
Each of TelecityGroup's eighteen data 
centres acts as a content and connectivity 
hub facilitating the storage, sharing and 
distribution of data, content and media. 
The customer systems and services that 
are operated from within our data centres 
have an impact on most people who 
are in any way  connected' or  online'. 
By locating server infrastructure in a 
TelecityGroup data centre, organisations 
providing any sort of content over the 
internet will enjoy reductions in latency 
and, thereby, improve the quality of 
the customer experience. 
TelecityGroup's customers are diverse 
in their businesses but all share a need 
for the most resilient and highly 
connected environments to support 
advanced information technology and 
network infrastructure, benefiting from 
the ecosystem of content, connectivity 
and value added services. Businesses 
and other institutions use TelecityGroup 
sites to operate online activities, run 
business continuity and online production 
environments, and house critical 
back office systems.
Con tent
 Telecity provided an extremely professional service, 
identified gaps in our requirements and highlighted 
these to us so that we were not delayed in what was 
a very time critical project. Their after deployment 
service has not disappointed and I would certainly 
consider them for future hosting requirements. 
Western Europe estimated growth in content download (millions)
Source: Screen Digest 
2006 (A) 2007 (E) 2008 (E) 2009 (E) 2010 (E) 2011 (E) 2012 (E)
5.0
105.8
7.5
158.3
11.9
210.6
20.1
257.3
31.4
298.1
45.0
331.4
58.0
356.9
Projected internet traffic
Estimated Western Europe Internet traffic
(Petabytes/Year)
Source: IDC
2006 (A) 2007 (E) 2008 (E) 2009 (E) 2010 (E) 2011 (E)
221,939
119,896
63,201
32,013
404,311
15,850
  Single music downloads
   Transactional 
movie downloads 
 Martin Garthwaite
 Project Manager, Emerging Technologies, ITV plc 
Con 03 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 02 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Connectivity
Businesses have a need for high levels 
of connectivity, whilst at the same time 
feeling confident that their server 
infrastructure is housed in a secure and 
resilient environment with highly skilled 
engineers on site day and night to 
provide expert assistance. 
In addition to TelecityGroup's own 
resilient managed connectivity services, 
major national and international networks 
are hosted in the Company's facilities, 
offering an extensive choice of networks 
to which organisations can connect. 
TelecityGroup data centres offer direct 
access to high numbers of global and 
national network providers, ISPs and 
internet exchange points which enables 
critical peering, transit and traffic 
exchange requirements.
neCtivity Con 04 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 05 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
has continued to be extremely attentive 
to customer requirements they have 
also been active in addressing this market 
opportunity. When Telecity plc merged 
with Redbus Interhouse plc ( Redbus') in 
2006 and subsequently acquired Globix 
Holdings (UK) Limited ( Globix'), it was 
with a mission to develop further the 
enlarged Group's market leading position 
as the primary content and connectivity 
hub in Europe's key markets, and it is 
satisfying to record the impact of this 
successful integration which underpins 
the results we are presenting. The final 
integration of the Globix business at the 
beginning of 2007 had a positive impact 
on our ability to sell additional value 
added services, such as engineering, 
connectivity, security and backup services 
( Value Added Services'), contributing 
approximately 28.1% to 2007 revenues.
In addition to this expansion the 
Group has also pursued opportunities 
for organic growth, and during 2007 
continued to increase its capacity in 
existing facilities as well as commencing 
new state of the art data centre builds in 
Amsterdam and London. These additions 
will allow TelecityGroup to remain the 
foremost provider of high quality network 
independent data centre services 
in Europe.
On 24 October 2007 TelecityGroup was 
admitted to the London Stock Exchange, 
raising total net funds of  66.9m. 
The management team, led by 
Michael Tobin, continues to focus on the 
prudent development of the business 
and on the further expansion that these 
funds will enable.
The success of the business is largely 
dependent on the way the Group 
operates its data centres and the 
consistent, reliable service we provide 
for our customers. Our highly skilled 
employees play an important role 
building the business and each of them 
has been key to the successful and 
exciting year the Group has enjoyed. 
On behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank them for their hard work and 
professionalism during a period of 
considerable development.
Current trading during the first months 
of 2008 has been strong with significant 
progress being made on growing the 
customer base. As expected, net order 
wins are significantly higher than in the 
same period last year. Furthermore, the 
Group remains on track to open its two 
new data centres as planned which, 
on completion, will deliver 9,000 sq.m 
of additional capacity in London and 
Amsterdam. Strong customer interest is 
being shown in the first capacity release, 
available from Q2 2008. Initial customer 
orders have been signed for both 
data centres.
We welcomed Brian McArthur Muscroft as 
Group Finance Director in January 2007. 
Brian has been instrumental in the 
refinancing programmes and played 
a significant role in the IPO.
In September, as well as my appointment 
to the Board of TelecityGroup, we 
welcomed John O'Reilly and Simon Batey 
as independent, non executive Directors 
to the Group. Their experience has been, 
and will be, valuable as the Group 
continues to implement its strategy 
and addresses its many opportunities. 
Subsequent to the year end Simon Batey 
has been appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director.
2007 was an excellent year for 
TelecityGroup as we delivered growth, 
completed a successful IPO and initiated 
significant expansion plans in order 
to cater for the expected increase in 
customer demand. Further details of the 
Group's results and outlook are included 
in the Business Review from our Chief 
Executive Officer, Michael Tobin, and 
Group Finance Director, Brian McArthur 
Muscroft, which commences on page 8.
Finally, I would like to welcome and thank 
all of the new shareholders to the Group. 
I look forward to reporting on the Group's 
further progress during the year.
John Hughes
Chairman
I am very pleased to be reporting to 
you as Chairman of Telecity Group Plc 
( TelecityGroup' or the  Group') at the 
time of issuing its first set of results since 
the Group completed its successful entry 
to the London Stock Exchange, and in 
my first period as the Group's Chairman. 
2007 has been a very successful year for 
TelecityGroup, in which it has delivered 
strong results. During 2007 the Group's 
revenues increased by 42.1%, with an 
Adjusted EBITDA growth of 112.1%. 
These results reflect both strong 
management focus and the commitment 
of all the employees of TelecityGroup. 
It is clear that the demand for the high 
quality data centres that TelecityGroup 
offers continues to increase, as evidenced 
during 2007 by the Group adding a number 
of additional blue chip customers to its 
roster, as well as renewing and expanding 
relationships with existing customers. 
The Group enjoys a diverse customer 
base across a variety of sectors and 
industries and has good visibility of the 
requirements both from existing and 
potential new customers.
Today's market for the premium product 
TelecityGroup provides is characterised 
by limited supply of data centre capacity, 
so while the management team 
John Hughes Chairman
chairman's statement
Revenue up
42.1%
Adjusted EBITDA up
112.1%
Net IPO proceeds
 66.9m
It is clear that the demand for the high quality data 
centres that TelecityGroup offers continues to increase, 
as evidenced during 2007 by the Group adding a number 
of additional blue chip customers to its roster, as well 
as renewing and expanding relationships with existing 
customers. The Group enjoys a diverse customer base 
across a variety of sectors and industries and has good 
visibility of the requirements both from existing and 
potential new customers.
The Chairman's Statement forms part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the Directors' Report 
set out on pages 24 to 26. 06 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 07 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
ion
Colocation
From colocation to fully managed hosting, 
TelecityGroup provides a suite of data 
centre services that offer organisations 
an enhanced and cost effective alternative 
to in house solutions. The Group's 
colocation services offer secure, 
resilient, and fully redundant facilities 
for companies looking to house their 
mission critical equipment. 
The Group's High Density Hosting 
facilities are designed to be capable 
of meeting the power, cooling 
and management requirements of 
power hungry blade server computing. 
The Group also bundles best of breed 
hardware, security, storage, connectivity 
and monitoring services with ongoing 
management to deliver a comprehensive 
managed hosting solution.
 David Jones 
 Head of Technology Services, Virgin Radio
 TelecityGroup offered us the most appropriate 
data centre environment and infrastructure 
to meet our needs. Their network independent 
services provide consistency of performance, 
which is imperative for a radio station that 
broadcasts worldwide in a variety of digital formats. 
ColoC at