 02 telent Annual Report 2006
Disposal of businesses to Ericsson 
and the launch of telent
The year to 31 March 2006 was a year of further significant change 
for the Group. In January 2006, we substantially completed the 
disposal of our Telecommunications Equipment and International
Services businesses to Ericsson, generating proceeds of  1.3 billion 
and a net profit on disposal of  752 million (after fees and other
transaction-related costs). Work is ongoing to complete legal 
formalities associated with the sale of related shares and assets in 
a few overseas jurisdictions.
The Marconi name was sold to Ericsson as part of this transaction.
Consequently, on 24 January 2006, the Company was renamed 
telent plc.
On 17 March 2006, the Company declared a special dividend of 275p 
per share returning  590 million to shareholders. The Company's shares
were subsequently consolidated on 27 March 2006 in the ratio of
two-for-seven.
As a result of the Ericsson transaction, we reorganised our continuing UK
and German services activities into one coherent business. This business
retained much of the deep technological expertise contained within
Marconi but is able to offer solutions to its customers with complete
independence from any particular equipment vendor. Many of our
customers see value in this type of relationship.
The business is structured into two operating segments, one working
with telecommunication network operators (Telco Services) and the
other focused on enterprise customers including Governments and
utilities (Enterprise Services). The activities of these two segments are
described in greater detail on pages 4 and 5.
UK Pension Plan
In the UK, telent retained responsibility for the UK Pension Plan, which
has around 64,000 members. By contrast, telent currently employs
around 2,100 people. As part of the Ericsson transaction, and required 
by the Plan Trustee and Pensions Regulator, to protect the entitlements
of UK Pension Plan members,  185 million of cash was injected into 
the UK Pension Plan, and an additional  490 million was put into an
escrow arrangement for its potential benefit.
At 31 March 2006, the UK Pension Plan had a surplus of  6 million 
on an IAS 19 basis (excluding the  490 million in escrow). The Trustee
has recently put in place inflation and interest rate hedging and, taking
this into account, we announced on 2 August that as at 30 June 2006,
the UK Pension Plan had an IAS 19 deficit of  102 million.
Chairman's statement
We aim to position telent as a leading
communications services business focused
on the telecommunications and enterprise
markets. We believe our accumulated
knowledge of fixed networks and integrated
communication systems, coupled with 
our significant UK field force and project
delivery capabilities, is a competitive
advantage. Underpinned by robust safety
and quality management, the business is
well positioned to exploit opportunities in
our chosen markets.  03 telent Annual Report 2006
The cash in the escrow, which is secured in favour of the UK Pension
Plan, is available to meet any funding plan agreed between telent and
the Trustee to meet a deficit on an IAS 19 or Pension Protection Fund
basis. Cash can only be released from the escrow to telent if, in the
future, the UK Pension Plan achieves a funding level of in excess of 
105% on a buy-out basis.
Offer for telent from Holmar Holdings Limited
On 25 May 2006, the Boards of Holmar Holdings Limited (a private
limited company indirectly owned by a private equity fund advised by
Fortress Investment Group) (Holmar ) and telent announced that 
they had reached agreement in principle on the terms of a possible
recommended cash acquisition by Holmar of telent at 529.5p per share.
On 20 June 2006, Holmar announced that it was proceeding with the
acquisition of telent at 529.5p per share. The Board believed that the
offer from Holmar represented fair value to telent shareholders and
recommended that they vote in favour of the transaction.
Subsequently, meetings of telent's shareholders were convened 
for 21 July 2006 to consider and vote on the resolutions required to
approve the cash acquisition of telent by Holmar, through a scheme 
of arrangement (the Scheme ), which required approval from a
majority of three-quarters of those shareholders voting.
On 21 July 2006, we made a further announcement which explained
that, in connection with the shareholders' meetings convened for 
21 July 2006, over 40% of telent's shares had been voted via proxies
and over 99.9% of those proxies had been voted in favour of the
Scheme. However, Polygon Investment Partners LLP and Polygon
Investment Partners LP, the owners of approximately 14.7 million 
shares or 23.9% of the issued share capital of telent, had indicated
through their SEC filings and in conversation with the management 
of telent, that they intended to vote against the relevant resolutions.
Consequently, the meetings on 21 July 2006 were adjourned to 
4 August 2006, to give those shareholders who had not yet voted 
an opportunity to vote.
On 4 August 2006, we announced that, at the adjourned shareholder
meetings held that day, the requisite majority of shareholders had 
not voted in favour of the offer from Holmar. Consequently the 
Scheme lapsed.
People
One of our key strengths as a services business is our people and I 
would like to thank them all for the terrific effort that they have put 
in through what, for some, may have been an unsettling time and for
their continued loyalty.
Changes to the Board
On 11 August 2006, the Board announced that it had agreed with 
Mike Parton that he would step down as Chief Executive Officer from 
31 October 2006. Subsequently, on 5 September 2006, we announced
that Mark Plato would assume the role of Chief Executive Officer with
immediate effect and that Mike Parton would consequently step down
from the Board but remain with telent until 31 October 2006. We also
announced that Pavi Binning would step down from the Board and the
role of Chief Financial Officer and that Heather Green would assume the
role with immediate effect. Pavi Binning will remain with telent until 
30 November 2006 to ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities.
We further announced that Kathleen Flaherty had decided not to stand
for reappointment and will, therefore, retire from the Board after the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 October 2006.
Both Mark Plato and Heather Green have been with the Group for a
number of years having joined in 1995 and 2001 respectively. Mark has
been Managing Director of telent, and previously of the services
business, since September 2002. Heather was previously Group Financial
Controller and has a background in finance and investor relations within
the Group and prior to this at Alstom. Their biographies can be found on
page 11.
These changes ensure that telent has the most appropriate team 
in place to take the business forward over the longer-term as an
independent communications services company. I would like to thank
Mike and Pavi for their huge contributions in successfully restructuring
the balance sheet, completing the Ericsson transaction, securing the 
UK Pension Plan and putting telent in a strong position for the future. 
I would also like to thank Kathleen for all her guidance, especially in
relation to US markets.
At the same time, I am delighted that Mark Plato and Heather Green
have accepted the Board's invitation to take up the roles of Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively. I very much
look forward to working with both of them in the years to come.
Outlook
We aim to position telent as a leading communications services
business focused on the telecommunications and enterprise markets. 
We believe our accumulated knowledge of fixed networks and
integrated communication systems, coupled with our significant 
UK field force and project delivery capabilities, is a competitive
advantage. Underpinned by robust safety and quality management,
the business is well positioned to exploit opportunities in our 
chosen markets.
Actions have been taken since the launch of telent, and are ongoing,
to downsize the remaining cost base to a structure suitable for
supporting the continuing business. Further details are included 
in the Business and Financial review on pages 16 to 23.
Approximately 75% of the revenues we anticipate for the current
financial year will come through orders already booked at 31 March
2006, or from existing frame contracts.
Our main contracts include: a four-year cable services frame contract
with BT ending in June 2008; our Tube Lines upgrade and maintenance
contract continuing until 2018; a multi-year frame contract with
Network Rail ending in 2009; our O2 Airwave GBNR contract, 
for which the implementation element completes in 2007; our Toll
Collect contract in Germany, which continues until 2010; and a new
installation & commissioning frame contract with Ericsson.
We have experienced a significant increase in bidding activity for new
opportunities across all Enterprise sectors, particularly in emergency
services and transportation since the launch of telent.
Your Board remains confident that the telent business has a committed
and highly skilled workforce that will continue to help a wide range of
customers to meet their business needs and achieve results by delivering
service, commitment and value.
J F Devaney
Chairman