 Thorntons PLC
Annual Report 2006
62
The AGM is a meeting of shareholders which the Company is required by law to hold each year. There are 13 resolutions to be considered and voted on
by shareholders at this year's AGM. Resolutions 1 to 8 relate to  Ordinary Business' and resolutions 9 to 13 to  Special Business'.
Ordinary Business
Resolution 1: Report and Accounts 
The Directors of the Company are required to present to the meeting and have adopted the Report of the Directors and Financial Statements for the
period ended 24 June 2006 and the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements.
Resolution 2: Remuneration Report
The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Directors' Remuneration Report for its approval. This vote is advisory in its nature only but will
be taken into account when considering future development of remuneration policy. 
Resolution 3: Declaration of Final Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.95 pence per Ordinary Share authorised by the Directors was paid on 28 April 2006. The Directors recommend that a final
dividend of 4.85 pence per Ordinary Share be declared in respect of the period ended 24 June 2006 in respect of shareholders on the register of the
Company on 3 November 2006. Approval by the meeting will permit this dividend to be paid on 30 November 2006.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7: Reappointment of Directors
Directors who have been appointed since last year's AGM are subject to re-appointment by shareholders; resolutions 4, 5 and 6 propose the
reappointment of myself, Barry Bloomer and Paul Wilkinson.
Under the Company's Articles of Association, and in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, Directors are also subject to reappointment
at least every 3 years. The Director retiring this year by rotation is Dominic Prendergast and resolution 7 proposes his reappointment. 
Resolution 8: Reappointment of Auditors
The Company must appoint Auditors to hold office until the end of the next meeting at which the Financial Statements are presented. This Resolution
proposes the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business
Resolution 9: Allotment of Shares
Shareholders' approval is required for the allotment of shares. Approval may either be given for particular allotments or by a general authority. The
Directors were given a general authority at the AGM in 2005 but this will expire at the conclusion of this year's meeting. Resolution 9 therefore gives the
Directors further general authority for a period expiring on 31 December 2007, or at the next AGM if earlier, in respect of Ordinary Shares up to a
maximum nominal value of  1,774,681 representing the authorised unissued share capital.
Resolution 10: Authority for the Directors to Allot Shares for Cash
The statutory position unless disapplied is that if the Directors wish to raise money by issuing shares for cash, they must in general first offer those shares
to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings in the Company. A shareholder's entitlement to be offered such shares is known as a pre-
emption right. Resolution 10 renews the existing authority expiring at the conclusion of this year's meeting to reduce, to a limited extent, shareholders'
statutory pre-emption rights in respect of cash issues.
Resolution 10(a) allows the Company the flexibility to undertake a rights issue without following statutory procedures where shares are offered pro rata
to shareholders with certain limited exceptions as outlined in the resolution.
Resolution 10(b) is intended to allow shares pursuant to any share option scheme for employees approved by the members in general meeting subject at
all times to the maximum limits set out in the scheme rules.
The purpose of resolution 10(c) is to give the Directors flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, without the need to incur the
cost and delay of an Extraordinary General Meeting and allows the issue of shares for cash to persons other than existing shareholders up to a maximum
nominal value of  336,266. This amount represents approximately 5% of the Company's issued share capital and is set to protect existing shareholders'
interests in accordance with published guidelines.
The above resolutions are intended to be valid for a period expiring on 31 December 2007 or at the next AGM, if earlier.
Chairman's explanatory notes to the notice of meeting 63
Resolution 11: Purchase of Own Shares
This is a special resolution which, if passed, would renew the existing authority expiring at the conclusion of the AGM which allows the Company to
purchase its own issued share capital at a price of not less than 10 pence per share and not more than 5% above the average of the middle market
quotations of the Company's shares as shown in the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the 5 business days before the purchase is
made. The authority would be to purchase a maximum of 10% of the Company's present issued share capital and would expire on 31 December 2007
or at the conclusion of the next AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors have no present intention to make any such market purchases but consider it is desirable for them to be given the flexibility to do so by
shareholders. The authority will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interests of shareholders
generally. The Directors have not decided at this stage whether any Ordinary Shares acquired pursuant to the authority sought in Resolution 11 would be
cancelled or held in treasury.
The Company currently has approximately 5.14m Ordinary Shares of 10p each under option pursuant to its SAYE and Executive share option schemes,
representing 7.6% of the Company's existing issued ordinary share capital. These options would represent 8.5% of the Company's issued ordinary share
capital if the authority sought in Resolution 11 were exercised in full.
Resolution 12: Increase in aggregate Directors' fees
The basic aggregate fees permitted to be paid to Directors in the Company's Articles of Association are currently set at  250,000 per annum. Whilst the
aggregate basic fees of the Non-Executive Directors do not currently exceed this limit, it is considered sensible to increase the aggregate permitted level
to give the Company added flexibility for appointing additional non-executive directors sufficient in calibre for the future. This limit only applies to fees
paid to Non-Executive Directors. Executive Directors do not receive Directors' fees as they are remunerated separately through their service contracts with
the Company. Resolution 12 consequently seeks shareholder authority to amend the fee limit to  500,000 per annum.
Resolution 13: Indemnity to Directors
Amendments to the Companies Act which came into effect in 2005 permit companies to indemnify their directors against liabilities to a greater extent
than was previously possible, as well as to assist directors with the funding of defence expenditure as it is incurred. The Board believes it is in the
interests of the Company to take advantage of these amendments and therefore proposes to amend the Company's Articles of Association by inserting a
new Article 129 to give the Board the power to indemnify Directors and Officers to the extent now permitted. 
Action to be taken
Shareholders are invited to complete and sign the enclosed form of proxy in accordance with the instructions thereon and return it to the Company's
Registrars as soon as possible and, in any event, so as to be received by 11.30 am on 23 October 2006. The return of a completed form of proxy will not
prevent you from attending the AGM and voting in person if you so wish and are able to do so.
Recommendation
The Board considers that all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and
unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do so themselves in respect of their own
beneficial shareholdings.
Finally, if you would like to comment on any issue arising from the Annual Report or these resolutions please do not hesitate to contact me.
John von Spreckelsen
Chairman
11 September 2006 Thorntons PLC
Annual Report 2006
64 1 Chairman's statement
1 Financial summary
2 Chief Executive's report
4 Finance Director's report
6 Board of Directors
7 Report of the Directors
10 Corporate Governance
13 Report on Directors' Remuneration
19 Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Independent Auditors' Report
21 Consolidated income statement
21 Statements of recognised income and expense
22 Balance sheets
23 Cash flow statements
24 Accounting policies
28 Notes to the financial statements
57 Five-year summary
58 Share ownership analysis
58 Financial calendar
59 Notice of Annual General Meeting
62 Chairman's explanatory notes to the notice of meeting
IBC Principal advisors
Contents
Welcome to
Secretary and registered office Mark R. Henson FCIS
Thornton Park 
Somercotes
Derbyshire
DE55 4XJ
Tel: 01773 540550
Registered No 174706
www.thorntons.co.uk
Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Registrars Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
Tel: 0870 1623131
Fax: 01484 600911
www.capitaregistrars.com
Principal bankers HSBC plc
Barclays Bank PLC
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Fortis Bank S.A./N.V.
Brokers Numis Securities Limited
Financial PR Advisors Cardew Group Limited
Financial Advisors N M Rothschild and Sons Limited
Annual Report Designed and produced by Jones and Palmer
Principal advisors Thorntons PLC
Thornton Park, Somercotes
Alfreton, Derbyshire, DE55 4XJ
Thorntons Direct
Telephone 0845 121 1911
www.thorntons.co.uk
For more information on 
Investor Relations visit
www.thorntons.co.uk
Printed on recycled and elemental chlorine-free paper.
www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC
Annual Report 2006
Thorntons PLC  Annual Report 2006