 02
TomCo Energy Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
I am pleased to announce the results 
for TomCo Energy Plc (TomCo or 
the Company ) (formerly Netcentric 
Systems Plc) for the year ended 
30 September 2007. These financial 
results reflect the fundamental change 
by the Company into an active oil 
production and exploration company. 
Acquisition of The Oil Mining 
Company Inc
On 16 January 2007, Netcentric Systems 
Plc completed the reverse acquisition 
of The Oil Mining Company Inc, which 
owns two separate groups of mineral 
leases on a total of 2,918 acres of 
oil shale in the State of Utah, US. The 
independent firm of mining consultants, 
SRK, reporting on the acquired leases, 
has estimated these leased oil shale 
areas to contain some 230 million 
barrels of oil.
At completion of the acquisition, 
the Company changed its name to 
T omCo Energy Plc and was re admitted 
to trading on AIM (TOM.L) and John 
Ryan, the President of The Oil Mining 
Company Inc, was appointed to the 
Board as Commercial Director.
In conjunction with the acquisition, 
the Company raised a total of  1.78 million 
through a placing of 71.28 million ordinary 
shares, at a placing price of 2.5 pence 
each, which has been used for working 
capital and primarily to enable the 
Company to investigate and make 
investments in producing oil wells 
and drilling in proven undeveloped 
acreage in the US. 
Investments
During the year , the Company took interests 
in five drilling participations two of which 
were successful and one of which has 
not yet started drilling. The Company also 
acquired for US$972,000, a 50% interest 
in the Mark III leases, Saratoga and Abel  
in Lubbock County, Texas, which have 
eight producing wells and preliminary 
estimated reserves of 28,960 barrels 
and subsequent to the year's end has 
announced a six well in fill  drilling 
programme at these two leases with 
a further eleven projected to be drilled 
later during 2008. 
We also spent a significant amount 
of time and effort to research and bring 
forward the acquisition programme 
for two sizeable target companies, 
which, unfortunately, failed to pass 
the due diligence tests which are a vital 
aspect of our decision making process. 
We will continue to be vigilant about 
all acquisition ideas and the process 
has enhanced our contacts and in turn 
our access to a larger number of high 
class prospects. We continue to research 
a number of other acquisition targets.
Post Balance Sheet
Acquisition of Heletz Kokhav 
and Luxi Licenses, Israel 
On 16 January 2008 TomCo announced 
that it had signed a letter of intent (LOI ) 
regarding the acquisition ( Acquisition ) 
of interests in two petroleum licenses 
onshore Israel from Avenue Group Inc 
(AVNU.OB), a New York based US listed 
Oil & Gas Company, and its wholly owned 
subsidiary Avenue Energy Israel Limited 
(together referred to as  AEI ). The interests 
to be acquired are a 50% interest in the 
Heletz Kokhav Licence and a 25% interest 
in the Luxi License (the Licenses ), 
which include the Heletz Kokhav oilfield 
(Heletz ). The concessions, covering 
over 68,000 gross acres, were recently 
awarded to AEI by the Israel Petroleum 
Commission and are 3 year production 
and development licenses which can 
be extended to 30 year production 
leases once production from the field 
has increased from the recent 60 to 300 
barrels of oil per day (bpd ).
The Heletz field, located 55km south 
of Tel Aviv and 12km east of the 
Mediterranean coast, is Israel's only 
onshore producing oil field. The field has 
produced in excess of 17 million barrels 
of oil to date from Cretaceous sands, 
with peak production of 3,000 to 4,200 
bpd between 1959 and 1967. The original 
oil in place (OOIP) for the field is estimated 
to be 50.7 million barrels; the Israeli 
Government estimates that there are 
2 million barrels of primary recoverable 
oil remaining, and studies suggest over 
Chairman's 
statement
_0_TOM_front_ar07.indd   2 31/03/2008   13:45:45 03
TomCo Energy Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
5 million barrels of secondary recovery 
potential may exist. A number of undrilled, 
deeper exploration prospects on the 
licenses have estimated potential 
in excess of 100 million barrels. 
AEI and the Company will commission an 
independent determination of remaining 
reserves for the Heletz field, as one 
of the first steps in an active technical 
programme designed to identify well 
re completion and infill well drilling targets, 
and to examine secondary recovery 
options. Production from the field had 
declined to around 60 bpd by 2007, 
although TomCo expects that the 
implementation of modern production 
and recovery methods and selected 
infill drilling will significantly increase 
production over the next 2 years, 
resulting in the granting of a 30 year 
production lease.
The completion terms of the Acquisition 
will be:
1.  TomCo will place into escrow 
US$1 million in cash for a period of 
three months pending the approval 
of the transfer from Avenue of the 
50% and 25% interests in the oil fields 
to TomCo by the Israeli Authorities 
with a formula to complete the 
transfer in the event that no such 
approval is forthcoming;
2.  TomCo will issue to AEI 12.5 million 
ordinary shares of 0.5 pence each 
in the Company (TomCo Shares ) 
valued at US$500,000 at 4c per share 
with a one year sale restriction;
3.  TomCo will pay to AEI 50% of AEI 
costs incurred to date in relation to 
the Licenses of TomCo of US$54,000;
4.  over the three year Phase 1 period 
(three years) of the License TomCo 
will pay up to a maximum US$4.5 million 
of development costs; 
5.  Tomco will pay a further US$1.5 million 
fee to AEI at the time at which a 30 years 
production lease is issued, which is 
expected to be at the time production 
at the fields reaches 300 bpd; and
6.  TomCo will pay a further US$5 million 
fee to AEI in the event that gross 
recoverable reserves on the Licenses 
are declared by an independent, 
qualified assessor to be more than 
10 million barrels.
To finance the Acquisition, TomCo has 
placed 67,066,666 shares (Placing 
Shares ) at 1.5p per share raising a total 
of  1million before expenses. Each two 
shares placed has an attached warrant 
to subscribe for one new ordinary TomCo 
share at a strike price of 2.5p per share 
with a 13 months term and a further 
Warrant for one share at a strike price 
of 5p exercisable within 13 months of 
the date of exercise of the first warrant. 
Application has been made for the 
Placing Shares to be admitted to AIM, 
and trading is expected to commence 
on 25 March.
Additionally at completion of the Heletz 
Acquisition the Company intends to issue 
a 24 months 8% Convertible Loan Note 
to Trafalgar Capital Specialized Investment 
Fund for Euros 1,000,000 with a minimum 
convertibility at 2p per share. The Company 
will issue 7,000,000 warrants with a three 
years term with an exercise price calculated 
at 90% of the price at completion and fee 
of Euro 25,000 satisfied by an issue 
of 1,179,562 shares. 
Shareholders should be aware that this 
acquisition of the Heletz Kokhav and 
Lux licences has not yet completed and 
the Company will make appropriate 
announcements regarding this transaction.
Strategy
The Company's strategy going forward 
is to hold the oil shale assets in reserve 
until such time as their exploitation 
becomes commercially and economically 
practical. In this regard, we believe that 
the Shell In Situ  extraction process 
is the most likely to receive environmental 
clearance from US authorities and start 
meaningful production within a six year 
time frame. Secondly, the Company is 
utilising the expertise of Howard Crosby, 
our CEO, and John Ryan, in investment 
in oil wells and proven undeveloped 
acreage located in the US and in special 
situations like the Heletz License in 
Israel. This strategy is being implemented 
and the Company has, to date, already 
invested US$1.39 million in such situations 
with a view to creating a prodigious 
and productive investment portfolio of 
conventional American and Isreali based 
shallow producing oil wells and proven 
undeveloped drilling locations. Meanwhile 
the Board continues to actively seek 
further investments, acquisitions and 
oil business associations.
Oil shale
Although there have been recent ongoing 
advances in the technology to extract oil 
from oil shale, particularly by Shell Oil, 
oil shale in the US is not yet being 
commercially exploited on any scale 
but your Board believes that this situation 
will change over the next few years 
(as a result of the huge strategic and 
commercial pressures, together with 
present supply anxiety) and will within 
this time frame, induce the US to create 
an oil shale industry in the way that the 
Canadian Tar Sands industry was created; 
indeed there has been a flurry of oil shale 
deals in January 2008 in the US, including 
an acquisition by IDT and apparent oil 
shale land purchases by Shell Oil. 
Future investment
Your Board is now also reviewing certain 
other investments where clear advantage 
can be shown to exist to assist in the 
improving the value of our shares.
Website
Shareholders can find detailed 
information on the Company's website;  
www.tomcoenergy.com which, in 
accordance with AIM Rule 29, contains a 
summary of our current strategy, detailed 
information about US oil shale and oil 
shale related links to US Government 
sites, the Company's share price, 
documents, announcements, press 
releases and articles.
Stephen Koml sy
Chairman
31 March 2007
_0_TOM_front_ar07.indd   3 31/03/2008   13:45:45