 RESULTS
At the half year I commented on the poor state of our key markets, and in particular the
financial markets. The underlying market position did not show any significant signs of
improvement in the second half either and trading conditions remained tough. Whilst levels
of selling activity and prospective business have since grown to record levels in many of our
businesses, there is still a reluctance to commit to investment amongst our potential client
base and decision making continues to take longer than we would like.
Turnover for the year was  15.9 million (2002 -  20.6 million). The decline was entirely
attributable to our financial market businesses, where we are not immune to the general
market conditions which have been as bad as I can recall. On a more positive note, our
property management software business and our recruitment business both improved
turnover as did our fully managed payroll operation. Our regular recurring maintenance and
facilities management activities provide us with a stable earnings stream and turnover from
these operations increased to  6.26 million (2002 -  5.46 million) with all areas contributing
to this improvement.
At the half year we reported gross margins down at 14.4%, in the main due to the shortfall
in package sales, and this level has broadly been maintained through the second half.
Continuing cost control resulted in a reduction in net operating expenses and we are
reporting an operating loss before goodwill and property revaluation adjustments of
 565,000 (2002 - profit  2.718 million).
We have continued to review the acquisition accounting for Trace Datawise Financial
Limited. As a result, it is the board's view that no further provisions or adjustments are
required over and above those processed 6 months ago. After a provision for the reduction
in the value of our freehold properties, interest and tax, we are reporting a loss per share
of 16.17p (2002 - earnings per share of 8.65p), with goodwill amortisation and impairment
accounting for 13.56p of this total (2002 - 4.39p).
The softening in the property market experienced last year has continued. As a result, we
have reduced the value of our freehold properties by  1.253 million, with all but  168,000
being charged against the revaluation reserve. The combination of this reduction and the
goodwill adjustment has resulted in a fall in shareholders' funds to  8.89 million (2002 -
 15.40 million). This represents net assets of 58.0p per share of which 51.1p is represented
by net tangible assets.
GROUP OPERATIONS
Trace Isys continued to be the strongest performer in the Group, although trading below last
year's levels. Package sales were hit as brokers deferred, extended or in some cases
shelved, plans for investment. By the end of the year all of our clients had moved on to our
e-Broking system enabling them to process their business from initial client enquiry through
to final account settlement using a single integrated system. We have also become a
reseller of Lexis, a document management and workflow system, which will allow us to
respond to the insurance industry's aim of increasing the amount of business that is handled
electronically. Lexis is now available with our TWINS products and we are hopeful of taking
our first orders shortly. The London market is continuing its drive toward electronic trading
and settlement. As a result, and to enable customers to benefit from this initiative, we are
progressing our development to implement electronic messaging within our core TWINS
Transaction Server product.
Trace Solutions continued to operate at the improved level achieved last year with new
sales being made in both the corporate and managing agent sectors. We have invested
heavily in our new products in the last few years and are beginning to benefit from the
results. Development of our core property management products has continued with several
of our major clients involved in projects that will increase our products' scope. 12 new
clients were obtained this year , the best performance in this business for several years. This
included the first sales of our new investment forecasting system, Cougar. Over the past 18
months we have worked hard to establish ourselves in the corporate market and property
investor sector. Recent success will help us in our aim of becoming a major supplier in both
of these areas. We are looking to build on our success and development efforts and will
shortly be launching a brand new product specifically for the property investor market.
Links with other software vendors have been developed to broaden our offering which can
now also run in a Windows XP environment. Our facilities management activity, whilst small,
has doubled this year and we expect this growth to continue.
Two of our businesses, Trace Financial and Trace Datawise, operate in financial markets,
specifically the wholesale banking and securities sector. This sector has suffered as clients
and potential clients have significantly cut back on expenditure and reduced or deferred
investment in software and systems. This naturally has had a major impact on these two
businesses. At the same time there has also been a downward pressure on rates for bespoke
and services work and a reduction in the use of external resources by our clients.
Although our
markets have been
difficult, we are
beginning to see the
first encouraging
signs ... 
Chairman's Statement Trace Group plc
2 ...we feel we are
well placed to
deliver an improved
performance in the
current year. 
Chairman's Statement Trace Group plc
3
Trace Financial had hoped to generate significant revenues from its corporate actions
management product, CAMS. Whilst interest has been high, a lack of budget has been
the key reason for prospects not moving ahead at this time. Despite this, we now have
three live corporate actions users. We have developed Transformer, a new messaging
product based around J2EE technology, which complements our flagship message broker
system, Cloverleaf, by providing state-of-the art message transformation and data
dictionary functionality. Our established Trafic and real time processing operations
continued at good levels. Overall we maintained and developed excellent relationships
with our clients, which in turn have allowed our services revenues to hold up reasonably
well. We continue to invest in our products and have increased our marketing activity,
promoting our primary products and running a number of successful seminars and other
events throughout the year.
Trace Datawise had a challenging year. Its results have been disappointing, trading at
only half the level achieved in the previous financial year. The issues faced were
detailed in my last report where I also noted that restructuring measures were being
instigated. These measures have been successful and the losses reported in the first half
have now been significantly reduced. Datawise is continuing to market its products,
specifically WebTM and a number of other web based products for Transfer Agents, Fund
Distributors, Custodians and Clearing Banks. There is the potential for a roll out of our
highly regarded WebTM product to new clients across Europe and the level of interest
being shown indicates that Datawise should be able to generate new business when the
market improves.
Trace Employer Services continued to grow its core fully managed payroll business and
is running at nearly double the rate of 12 months ago. New orders are at an all time high
with the size of individual orders also growing. We are continuing with the development
of new software to update facilities and improve efficiency, with a consequent impact
on the services we can provide. With our processes ever improving, we will be looking
to continue our growth organically and through acquisition.
Prospect, our recruitment business, operated at similar levels to last year, although a
strong first half was followed by a much slower second half. This was mainly due to the
uncertainty in the recruitment sector created by the situation in Iraq. Prospect's key
niche, Operational Research and Decision Support, continued to perform at consistent
levels and provided a solid base for the company. The recently restructured and
refocused operation is being well received by clients and we believe will deliver
improving results when the economy improves.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Although our markets have been difficult, we are beginning to see the first encouraging
signs that the situation might improve as the year progresses. We have carried out a
broad ranging review across the group and have introduced changes which we expect to
result in significant financial benefits to the group. Our controlled investments have
helped us maintain a best of breed portfolio of products and services. Our client
relationships are excellent and our good reputation continues to improve. 
Prospective business is at record levels. Converting opportunities remains the key. With
our increasing competitiveness and extra marketing effort we feel we are well placed
to deliver an improved performance in the current year. With the cost cutting measures
we have introduced from the beginning of the current year also coming in to effect, I
believe we have a solid base for the future and that all of our businesses are in a strong
position to deliver an improved result. It is against this background that the board has
decided to recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31st May 2003
of 0.5p per share. This is expected to be paid on or about 3rd December 2003 to
shareholders on the register of members on 7th November 2003.
As ever, on behalf of the board my thanks go to our staff, our customers and
shareholders.
C W Ingham
CHAIRMAN
24th September 2003
...the board has
decided to
recommend the
payment of a final
dividend ... 