 RESULTS
I am pleased to be able to report that Trace has again improved its performance from last
year's record levels. Turnover, helped by the inclusion of Datawise for the first time,
increased to  20.6 million (2001 -  15.7 million), our highest ever level. Earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation improved by 17% to  3.25 million (2001 -
 2.78 million) and operating profit before amortisation of goodwill improved at a similar
rate to  2.72 million (2001 -  2.29 million). Headline earnings per share were 13.04p
(2001 - 11.24p). This result has been achieved in mixed trading conditions and against a
background which continues to be one of the toughest that our industry has had to face
in recent times. Our diversity has helped us combat general economic and market factors
but the state of the financial sector, which shows continuing weakness, remains a
concern.
The mix of our business followed the pattern established over the last 18 months, with
strong growth in bespoke development and related software and consultancy services.
Our regular recurring maintenance and facilities management income increased to  5.1
million (2001 -  4.0 million).  After the reduction in package revenues last year, I am
encouraged in particular by the improvement that our property management software
business has made which has helped to reverse that trend.
This year's accounts incorporate for the first time the amortisation of goodwill on the
Datawise acquisition of  0.66 million. Last year's accounts benefited from a one off
property revaluation surplus of  2.65 million, of which  0.78 million was reflected in the
profit and loss account. The impact of these two factors was that after a tax charge of
 0.75 million (2001 -  0.78 million) retained profit amounted to  1.29 million (2001 -
 2.41 million).
After the significant increases in property values we have experienced since 1999, there
has been a softening in the market over the last 12 months. As a result, we have reduced
the value of our freehold properties by  0.78 million, although all of our properties
remain valued above original cost. Despite this, our balance sheet has strengthened with
shareholders' funds reported at  15.4 million (2001 -  14.9 million), representing net
assets in excess of  1 per share. Whilst the group still continued to generate positive cash
from its operating activities, cash resources reduced to  0.9 million (2001 -  2 million)
due to a combination of higher tax payments and changing working capital requirements.
GROUP OPERATIONS
Trace Isys continues to be the strongest performer in the group and again exceeded
budget. Last year saw the first live adoption of TWINS e-Broking, our browser based
system, and subsequently all our clients have committed to taking it. In terms of new
sales, our TWINS TS product was implemented at Glenrand on time and on budget. Last
autumn, we built an interface between TWINS TS and the inreon reinsurance trading
platform in order to allow inreon to automatically leverage the TWINS TS functionality
that had traditionally required input from an insurance technician. Although initially
limited to a very specific type of business, this model offers much scope and will provide
the next phase in the evolution of our packages.
Trace Financial improved on its performance last time and generated a good contribution,
although the level of activity fell below budget due to the continuing poor state of
financial markets. We made a major release of CLOVERLEAF Finance and the product
continues to be heavily and successfully used in our installed base, generating good
service and maintenance revenues, although new licence sales were lower than we had
hoped. T wo releases of our Trafic product were made to support Crest regulatory changes.
We have also consolidated our position in money broking software markets, supporting
foreign exchange electronic trading systems and developing new real time applications.
We have made the first 3 sales of CAMS, our corporate actions management software, and
we now have our first live site running successfully. Prospective business looks good in this
area and we believe the market opportunity is exciting, although financial constraints are
extending purchasing lead times. 
Trace Solutions has made good progress this year, contributing significantly to the group's
results. Continuing quality improvements and increased functionality in our TRAMPS
property management and accounting system has resulted in a substantial increase in new
business. Major new clients included DTZ Debenham Tie Leung, ATIS Real Weatheralls and
CB Hillier Parker, re-confirming our position as the leading supplier at the top end of the
managing agents' sector. Half of last year's sales were to property companies, establishing
TRAMPS' position in this sector. Our new Trace Investment Forecaster product, linking
directly to TRAMPS, will facilitate future sales to property investment companies. The
BACI suite of commercial agency and business management software continued to sell
well last year and we are currently working with a third party on further web based
developments. During the year , we launched TOPMA, an outsourced property management
accounting service which has created a significant degree of interest. This is a new
venture but early signs for this, as well as Trace Solutions in general, are encouraging.
Our regular recurring
maintenance and
facilities management
income increased to
 5.1 million... 
Turnover... increased
to  20.6 million... our
highest ever level. 
Chairman's Statement Trace Group plc
2 ...we have a very
healthy balance
sheet. 
Chairman's Statement Trace Group plc
3
Trace Employer Services has continued to grow its core fully managed payroll business.
However, the loss of certain large legacy customers, who have opted to go in house, has
meant that the business overall has made only a modest contribution. Our reputation and
level of service continues to improve and we have enhanced our service by completing
our new end-user enquiry package, Phoenix Payview. In the longer term we intend to
develop this further which will improve our access to the bureau market. Whilst the
market for managed payroll is large, it is currently sluggish, with few drivers for change.
The general economic environment has led to increased order timescales but despite this
we doubled our user base during the year. We have continued to improve internal
processes in order to increase operational efficiency and thereby reduce operational
costs. 
Prospect has had a challenging year having to face, in common with the overall
recruitment industry, a very depressed market for the first three quarters. However, as a
result of internal reorganisation and restructuring, together with the successful
development of new client relationships, Prospect's performance stabilised and improved
during the year enabling the company to make a profit, albeit at reduced levels compared
with last time. The operational research and decision support markets have improved
during the year and will remain a specialist niche area, providing a solid base for
sustainable growth. We will also continue to change Prospect's wider marketing profile,
emphasising our ability to cover a much greater range of business critical requirements
rather than just our historical niche areas.
This is the first full year that Datawise has been part of the group and it has not been an
easy period for this business, operating in depressed sectors of the financial market place,
one which has been impacted by the September 11th tragedy with its knock on effects.
Whilst profitable, the results have been significantly below what we had hoped for. The
first phase of the major WebTM project for Deutsche Bank has been successfully
completed and is currently in live operation in the USA in a number of their customer
sites. We are looking to exploit the sales potential for this product and will be targeting
various organisations and sectors, including Transfer Agents and Fund Distributors, and in
due course the Unit Trust industry. We continue to review the potential for marketing
alliances across Europe and the upcoming SIBOS trade show will provide a good platform
for the launch of our new products. 
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Trace Isys is continuing to operate at good levels, although current market conditions are
impacting immediate prospects for growth. Trace Solutions looks set to continue to grow,
expanding package sales into both the agent and non agent markets. Trace Employer
Services is taking new orders and is building its fully managed payroll business and
Prospect, following its reorganisation, is also experiencing increasing levels of activity in
its markets.
Our biggest challenge and risk is in our financial software businesses. The worldwide slow
down in financial markets impacted our second half performance two years ago,
continued last year and shows no sign of improving. If anything, trading conditions are
becoming even tighter. We continue to develop products in both Trace Financial and Trace
Datawise Financial, and whilst our services revenues are holding up, our current and short
to medium-term growth prospects, both domestically and overseas, could be impacted by
market factors.
I remain convinced that the group is capable of producing good profits. However, our
results will depend to a considerable extent on the performance of Datawise which is
difficult to predict in volatile markets. We are continuing to look at other potential
acquisitions and partnership opportunities to help Trace grow further.
It is again encouraging to see our trading profits and earnings per share increasing and our
balance sheet strengthening to record levels. Our performance ratios remain good, we
have delivered significant profits for six years in a row, our operations continue to
generate cash and we have a very healthy balance sheet. 
On behalf of the board, I would once again like to thank our staff for their efforts without
which we could not continue to produce these improved results.
C W Ingham
CHAIRMAN
24th September 2002