 Trans-Siberian Gold ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 02
Job: 7347_TSG_FRONT_AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: Amy Date: 06/06/06 
Server: Studio 3 Set-up: Gemma First Read/Revisions
Chairman's
STATEMENT
Site preparation, Asacha
At the end of March 2006, Jeremy 
Marshall retired as Chairman and as a 
director of the Company. He had been 
Chairman of TSG since 2001 and helped 
to guide the Company through its 
formative years and its debut as a public 
company on AIM in November 2003. I am 
pleased to have been elected as the new 
Chairman and would like to thank Jeremy 
for his valuable contribution to the 
Company. We will miss his wide 
experience and good sense.
The period under review has seen some 
high and low points as the Company 
continued with its transformation from 
an exploration company into a growth-
orientated producer. However, as you 
read through the report you will no doubt 
agree that the Company is now in a 
position to bring the Asacha project in 
Kamchatka into production and develop 
a viable strategy for the Veduga property 
in Krasnoyarsk Krai, as well as address 
growth beyond these two assets.
At Asacha there were two challenges  
that had to be overcome during the year. 
First, the technical due diligence carried 
out on behalf of Standard Bank plc 
(Standard) and the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
(EBRD), who were jointly mandated to 
arrange project finance for Asacha, 
identified certain technical shortcomings 
in the Asacha plan; and, secondly, we 
had to apply for an extension to the 
condition in the Asacha licence requiring 
the production of the first 1,000 kg of 
gold by 30 June 2006 before the project 
could proceed.
In November, Jocelyn Waller, whose 
entrepreneurial flair and energy led to 
the establishment of the Company, and 
who had been CEO since the Company 
was formed in 2000, stood down as 
Managing Director. He remains a director 
of TSG in a non-executive capacity. 
Jonathan Best, a former Finance Director 
of AngloGold Ashanti Limited (AGA), was 
appointed Managing Director on an 
interim basis pending the recruitment of 
a permanent replacement. At the same 
time Glen Koropchuk was seconded from 
AGA and appointed TSG's Chief 
Operating Officer. Their international 
experience and leadership and their 
expertise in helping to solve the 
problems that were holding back the 
Company's development have been 
invaluable and we are extremely 
fortunate to have secured their services. 
We have also continued to benefit 
enormously from AGA's support and 
assistance across the whole project.
The management, together with AGA 
technical specialists, whose services  
are provided under the auspices of a 
Technical Consultancy Agreement with 
AGA, have reviewed the Asacha project 
and updated the feasibility study 
addressing all of the areas about which 
the banks had concerns. Taking into 
account these requirements, the high 
rate of inflation in Russia and the 
strengthening of the rouble the project 
cost has increased to $100 million 
inclusive of $12 million of refundable VAT 
and a contingency of $6.3 million. Of the 
total amount, $26 million has already 
been spent. We now believe that we have 
a robust, well engineered project, with 
production scheduled to commence in 
2008. Changes to the plant design will 
give it an increased capacity of 
approximately 220,000 tonnes per 
annum and the expected production 
from the mine is approximately 617,000 
oz over seven years. We do, however, 
believe that good potential exists to 
increase this level of gold production by 
at least 50% from a northern extension 
to the existing orebody and from  
two other orebodies in the proximity.  
A focused exploration programme to 
prove up these areas is planned.
I am pleased to report that an extension 
to the production condition in the Asacha 
licence to the end of 2008 was granted in 
May 2006. Certain milestones in the 
licence for Rodnikova, TSG's other 
property in Kamchatka, have also been 
extended, with production of gold and 
silver to commence in 2012 or after 
depletion of Asacha's ore. The term 
sheet for project finance of up to $50 
million was signed with Standard on 8 
June 2006. While we finalise the plans for 
raising further funds from the equity or 
near equity market, AGA has made 
available a loan of $10 million on 
commercial terms in order to prevent 
further delays to the project. The loan  03 Trans-Siberian Gold ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
will be convertible into TSG shares when 
the Company raises new equity. I believe 
that we are now well positioned to 
proceed apace with this project.
During 2005, Aker Kvaerner (AK), in 
conjunction with the Russian institute 
Giprotsvetmet, conducted a pre-
feasibility study on the construction of a 
complex metallurgical plant to produce 
gold at Veduga. AK concluded that, 
through a combination of high capital 
costs for the oxidation plant, a relatively 
small ore resource in relation to the 
capital costs, and the absence of grid 
power, none of the envisaged oxidation 
processes were economically viable at the 
then current gold price. While this was 
disappointing to both the Board and 
shareholders, a number of initiatives are in 
progress to find a way to extract this ore 
economically. Initial work is encouraging, 
assisted by the potential availability of grid 
power from 2010, given that power 
accounts for a large proportion of the total 
cost of extracting gold from sulphide ore. 
Further test work is required as well as an 
aerial geophysical survey to determine the 
potential to increase the size of the 
resource that will give the benefit of 
economies of scale. Much of this work is 
planned for 2006 and the first half of 2007.
Initial drilling results at the Bogunay 
exploration site, also in Krasnoyarsk 
Krai, have been disappointing; however, 
we have not yet drilled the more 
prospective areas.
Having started to make the transition 
from an exploration company to a mining 
company, we need to consider where our 
next mines will come from. The Company 
needs to adopt another dimension of 
growth. We believe that the Russian 
Federation is one of the world's most 
prospective countries for gold deposits 
and this is aided by the administration's 
move to privatise deposits held by the 
State. On 9 February 2006, the Federal 
Agency on Subsoil Management 
announced the auction of 856 mineral 
properties including gold properties. On 
27 February, they announced that the 
number was to be increased to 1,500. 
According to Vladimir Bavlov, Deputy 
Head of the Agency, out of the 1,500 
areas, 1,100 will be solid minerals, and 
the rest hydrocarbons. He also noted 
that about 500 areas out of the 1,100  
will be gold-bearing.
The year ahead will see the Company 
focus on growth through participation  
in select auctions, especially in the 
Kamchatka and Krasnoyarsk areas.
In as much as the addition of AGA as a 
significant shareholder was a benefit to 
the Company during the last reporting 
period, we welcome a new significant 
shareholder in United Financial Group 
Private Equity Fund (UFG), who now hold 
25% of the Company's share capital. UFG 
is headed by Dr Boris Fedorov, a 
prominent Russian politician, who is 
Honorary Chairman of United Financial 
Group, and previously served as Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of 
the Russian Federation.
Following the UFG share acquisition, both 
Boris Fedorov and Florian Fenner were 
appointed to the Board of Directors. 
Florian Fenner, a CFA and investment 
manager with over nine years' 
experience in Russia, joined UFG Asset 
Management as Managing Partner in  
July 2002. We greatly welcome the 
appointment of Dr Fedorov and Mr 
Fenner and are pleased to have such 
prominent businessmen with their wide 
experience of the Russian financial and 
commercial sectors on the Board. This 
should greatly improve our ability to 
operate efficiently in Russia.
As you are aware, Jonathan Best's 
appointment was an interim one, and he 
has decided to step down at the end of 
June 2006, having overseen an in-depth 
review of the Company's projects and 
financing arrangements. The plan for 
Asacha is now quite robust and the work 
needed to find an economic method for 
the treatment of Veduga is well scoped. 
Indicative terms for project financing 
have been agreed with Standard Bank 
and a convertible loan of $10 million has 
been secured from AGA. This, together 
with a proposed equity raising, places 
the Company in a good position  
to move forward. It is important that  
we find the right person to take the 
Company into the next stage of its 
development and this process is 
significantly advanced; shareholders 
will be notified once the successor has 
been appointed. Glen Koropchuk will 
assume the role of CEO until an 
appointment is made. Jonathan Best  
will be available to the Company on  
a consulting basis and will see the 
financing to completion.
Finally, I would like to thank our 
management and staff in Russia and the 
United Kingdom for their dedication and 
loyalty during a difficult and frustrating 
period. Happily, we are now much better 
placed to build a successful future for  
the Company.
Peter Burnell
Chairman 
19 June 2006