 Avingtrans plc 
 
 
  
 
2
Chairman's Statement 
On behalf of your Directors it is my pleasure to announce the results of Avingtrans plc for the year 
ended 31 May 2003. These results represent twelve months of income from bank deposits and eleven 
months of income from the trading of the Jena Group of companies (Jena ) following the acquisition 
of Jena on 28 June 2002. The business of Avingtrans plc since that date is the provision of precision 
actuators, spindles and finishing services to the automation, machinery and aerospace industries of 
the EU and USA. The aim of your Board is to build the Company through organic growth and 
acquisition, with the objectives of generating long-term earnings per share growth, cash generation 
and a sustainable dividend policy.  
 
Financial Performance 
For the twelve months ended 31 May 2003, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and goodwill 
amortisation (EBITDA) was  559,000 (2002:  498,000 loss) on a turnover of  4,647,000 (2002:  Nil).  
 
Operating profit for the period was  293,000 (2002:  498,000 loss). Profit before tax was  291,000 
(2002:  309,000 loss).  
 
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation for the year ended 31 May 2003, was 4.2p (2002: 
4.9p loss). Earnings per share after goodwill amortisation and full dilution were 3.3p (2002: 4.2p loss). 
Both the earnings per share numbers are stated after absorbing  70,000 of cost (1p per share) 
associated with Advance Corporation Tax, interest and accountancy costs relating to repurchases of 
shares in 1998 and 1999. 
 
Cash flow from operations for the year was  281,000 with cash at bank and in hand at the year-end of 
 1,083,000. The net cash balance on the 31 May 2003 was  856,000. 
 
The Directors are unable to propose a dividend payment for the year under review due to the negative 
Profit and Loss Reserve in the brought forward Balance Sheet. This problem has been addressed 
through a capital reconstruction of the Company, which is explained further below. 
 
Tax charges were lower than normal at 21.6% during the year due to losses carried forward from prior 
years. 
 
A favourable gain of  111,000 was recorded through the reserves during the year on currency 
translation of foreign subsidiaries due to the increase in the value of the Euro to the Pound since the 
acquisition of Jena. 
 
Review of the Year 
Avingtrans met the majority of its principal objectives during this, its first year of operations as a 
supplier of precision actuators, spindles and related services to industry. Jena was successfully 
integrated into the Company. New systems of control and corporate governance were introduced. 
New auditors were appointed. New banking arrangements and insurance cover was organised and a 
number of administrative matters remaining from prior years were closed off. These included the 
assignment of the remaining seven years of the lease on a Grosvenor Street property at nil cost and 
the payment of ACT due on earlier years activities. 
 
With a more concentrated focus afforded to the management, new opportunities were developed in 
the actuator markets of the USA and the EU and during the year the Company successfully expanded 
its spindle sales, repair and maintenance activities by the addition to its portfolio of the exclusive sales 
agency for GMN Spindles, covering the UK and Ireland. GMN is the premier company in the EU for 
the design manufacture and supply of precision spindles for the machinery and automation sectors 
and serve the same customer profile as our existing actuator business. 
 
The EU and USA, which are our principal markets, remained sluggish during the first half of the year, 
despite forecasts of an early pick up. C&H Precision Finishing Limited, the Group's UK turbine blade 
finishing facility and JRT Inc., the Group's sales and service outlet in the USA were particularly  Avingtrans plc 
 
 
  
 
3
affected by the continuing downturn in trade. Consequently, action was taken where required to 
reduce the cost of labour in under-utilised plants through short time working and lay-offs. As business 
activities improved during the second half of the year more normal work patterns were resumed. 
Business activity, however, remained at a lower level than expected through the year-end and the 
measures initiated to protect profit margins remained in place. Capital expenditure on essential items 
and replacement equipment was maintained at the planned level. 
 
Acquisitions 
Following the acquisition of Jena on 28 June 2002, a number of potential acquisitions were reviewed 
during the year. Of these Boneham & Turner Spindles became a bolt on  asset and ongoing business 
purchase and was completed post the year-end. It is commented on later in this report. The second, a 
profitable private UK company in the business of providing electrical, project engineering and 
maintenance services to the automation and machinery industry, has accepted the Company's offer 
subject to due diligence and shareholder approval and granted the Company an exclusivity period 
provisionally ending in October. Work on this project continues. Both of these companies are seen as 
profitable growth opportunities and a good fit for Avingtrans. The search for other suitable acquisitions 
remains a strong element in the Company's growth strategy. 
 
Directors and senior management 
As reported in the Interim statement on 30 November 2002, a number of changes to the Board were 
made on 28 June 2002. I was appointed Chairman of the Board, Stephen Bruh, previously an 
Executive Director was appointed Non-executive Director and Jeremy Hamer previously Chairman 
was appointed Non-executive Director. Also on this day Steve Lawrence was appointed Executive 
Director. On the 2 September 2002 the Board was pleased to welcome Stephen King, previously with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to the Board in the position of Finance Director and Company Secretary. 
Shareholders at the AGM held on the 11 October 2002 ratified all of these appointments. 
 
In view of the increasing workload on the senior management caused by our accelerating acquisition 
programme I have agreed to become Executive Chairman of the Company with effect from 30 
September 2003. 
 
In accordance with the Articles of Association Jeremy Hamer retires from the Board in rotation and 
offers himself for re-election at the AGM scheduled for 8 October 2003. 
 
Revenue Reserves 
As noted earlier in the report, the negative Profit and Loss Reserve shown in the brought forward 
Balance Sheet, together with the operating loss recorded in the previous year, prevented the 
Company from considering any proposals from the Directors for dividend payments for the year under 
review and in addition precluded the Company from attempting any acquisitions without incurring the 
costs associated with a reverse takeover.  
 
Accordingly an action was put in process in the last quarter of the year to correct this situation. This 
process culminated in an EGM held on 17 July 2003 at which a resolution to cancel the Share 
Premium Account of the Company was duly passed. Following this on the 20 August 2003, the High 
Court of Justice Chancery Division approved the cancellation of the Share Premium Account of the 
Company. Had the approval been received before 31 May 2003 the adjusted Profit and Loss Reserve 
at 31 May 2003 would have been  3,435,000. These actions release the Company from the 
constraints on future dividends. There is no impact on the Net Assets of the Group. 
 
Share Options 
After another review of Company procedure, the Board proposes to amend the terms of the 
Avingtrans plc Share Option Scheme. The present scheme is considered unwieldy and out of date 
with current practice. Our Auditor RSM Robson Rhodes LLP has drawn up a new EMI scheme in 
accordance with best practice corporate governance and ABI guidelines. The new scheme will be 
implemented during October. Copies of the Scheme are available for inspection at Avingtrans' 
Registered Office during normal working hours.   Avingtrans plc 
 
 
  
 
4
Post Balance Sheet events 
On 29 August 2003 Avingtrans through its UK subsidiary Jena Rotary Technology (JRT) of Cossall, 
Nottinghamshire acquired the assets, intellectual property rights, personnel and ongoing business 
interests of Boneham and Turner Spindles (BTS) a division of Boneham and Turner Limited of 
Mansfield, Nottinghamshire. 
 
Precision spindles are used in many forms of machinery and automation equipment to transmit power 
to cutting tools and other mechanisms and are being developed to meet the growing needs of the 
aerospace and other industries. 
 
BTS will be integrated with Avingtrans' existing spindle operations and the GMN distribution centre at 
JRT, forming the largest precision machine spindle manufacturing operation in the UK. This combined 
operation will be cost efficient and effective in serving the needs of the company's customer's 
worldwide and is an important step in the growth of the actuator division.  
 
Prospects 
Whilst business activity is still well below 2001 levels, a steady improvement in enquiry levels and 
order intake was experienced in the last quarter of the year under review and this has continued in the 
first quarter of the new year. With the acquisition of BTS and the distribution arrangements on the 
GMN spindle line for the UK and Ireland the Company's position in this field is greatly strengthened, 
and significant benefits are anticipated in the future. Actuators continue to be the Company's main 
business line which are designed and produced at its modern factory in Jena, Germany and are 
distributed in both the EU and the USA. Demand for this product remains strong, with new 
applications continuing to evolve. The Company is well placed to take advantage of a sustained 
upturn in economic conditions. 
 
On behalf of the Board of Directors I should like to thank all the employees of the Company for their 
continuing efforts during the year and their contribution to its success. 
 
Your Board looks forward to the new year and the prospects of continued profitable growth with 
cautious optimism.   
 
 
K.M.Baker 
Chairman 
10 September 2003 
 
 