 Chairman's statement
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to announce the results for Avingtrans plc for the year ended 31 May 2006
in which the Group attained a new record level of order intake, turnover and after tax earnings since joining AIM in June 2002. 
The year under review contains the first full year of activity of our October 2004 acquisition Stainless Metalcraft Limited
(SMC) and has been a period largely concerned with integrating, managing and developing SMC and our continuing
businesses for profitable growth. A number of acquisition opportunities were reviewed during the year and some remain active.
Demand for the Groups products remained generally strong throughout the year with better than expected performance at both
C&H Precision Limited (C&H) our aerospace component finishing facility and the Jena group of companies which provide
ballscrew actuator products and services for the medical, aerospace and machinery industries in the EU and USA. Order intake
at Crown UK made a good recovery in the second half of the year. Sales at SMC to its major customers for MRI scanner
components, after a good first half, were significantly lower than planned in the last quarter due to a softening of demand in
the US market and related inventory and manufacturing adjustments by the major MRI OEMs. The Company continued to
review this situation and the broadening of the customer base at SMC
Financial performance
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and goodwill amortisation (EBITDA) was  4.1m (2005:  3.2m) up 28% on
improved turnover of  32.5m (2005:  24.3m) an increase of 34%. 
Operating profit for the period was  2.8m (2005:  2.3m). Profit after tax was  2.0m (2005:  1.3m) an increase of 51%,
representing a 15.5% return on net assets.
Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation for the year was 16.2p (2005: 13.6p) an increase of 19%.
Cash flow from operating activities for the year was  2.7m (2005:  3.9m) with net cash at bank and in hand at the year-end
of  1.2m (2005:  0.7m). The net debt at the year-end was  3.3m (2005:  4.2m) resulting in a gearing reduction to 26% (2005:
41%).
Dividend
In light of the financial performance highlighted above the Board is recommending to the shareholders at the AGM a final
dividend of 0.5p per share making a total of 1.0p for the year (2005: 0.5p). This will be paid on 10 November 2006 to
shareholders on the register at 15 September 2006.
Acquisitions and investments
The acquisition of 75% of Sigma for a consideration of  0.3 million was completed after the year end on 19 June 2006. The
funding for the acquisition was from the Group's cash reserves. Sigma is currently operating as an engineering and
procurement consultancy for the EU and USA aerospace industry with offices in Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China and
Tamworth, England. Its plan with Avingtrans is to develop a manufacturing presence in Chengdu for the supply of precision
components to the growing Chinese aerospace industry and to cover existing and increasing demand from the EU and USA. 
The Group continued its policy of investment in profit and efficiency enhancing equipment throughout the year. Jena saw the
final installation and commissioning of a state of the art PC based Bosch test unit for high frequency motorised spindles in its
Nottingham facility. A number of new pieces of equipment were also brought on line at SMC and Jena, Germany.
Improvements to building and the environment were carried out throughout the Group. Capital expenditure for the year totalled
 1.2 million and remains ahead of the costs of depreciation.
Review of the year
SMC, our largest operating subsidiary, continued its strong performance during the first nine months of the year with an
increase in delivery of MRI scanner components to a number of the worlds largest MRI scanner OEMs and the delivery of
scientific products to a number of EU companies and scientific institutions. 
A long term strategic review with Siemens was completed during the year which resulted in the raising of SMC to the status
of a tier one supplier of MRI scanner components and the signing in April 2006 of a rolling two year supply agreement. Work
continued on the broadening of the customer base at SMC with successful bids for scientific and research projects with
international research institutions including ILL in Grenoble and CERN in Switzerland. 
3 4
Chairman's statement (continued)
The Jena group of companies successfully improved its performance during the year with improved sales of its ballscrew
actuator and machine spindle products and services in all three locations in the UK, USA and Germany. Performance and order
intake was particularly robust in Germany on the back of a strongly recovering German engineering economy. Efforts
continued in the year in our pursuit of new customers and acquisitions in this operation.
C&H continued to strengthen its position in the aerospace market as a supplier of precision polishing and finishing services
with deliveries of finished blades increasing significantly during the year. A new three year agreement with Rolls Royce for
the precision polishing of turbine and compressor blades and vanes for a variety of aero engines was entered into. Other
polishing and finishing work on landing gear legs for aerospace applications was taken up in the second half of the year as the
unit continued to expand its operations to meet with the increased demand for its services.
Crown UK Limited (Crown), the Group's Bristol based road speed camera pole and railway signalling pole design and
manufacturing facility recovered strongly in the second half of the year following the issue of the much delayed government
report on road speed cameras in November 2005. Activity was centred on service work and the replacement of conventional
camera installations with the latest digital cameras, which are of greater accuracy and require lower maintenance. Railway
work was still difficult to come by during the year as programmes of development on the major inter-city routes continue to
be held up in the planning stage. A number of overseas contracts were tendered for with some success in Canada, the mid-east
and Australia. 
Two prototype camera housings were manufactured by Crown for Vehicle Sensor Technology Limited (VST) the newly
formed Avingtrans Subsidiary who signed an exclusive worldwide 5 year renewable supply and service agreement with
Vehicle Occupancy Limited, the owner of a patented system for the detection of the number of people in a motor vehicle. The
system, which is still undergoing development, will make it easier to enforce priority lanes for car sharing initiatives and for
differential tolling on roads, bridges, tunnels and car parks.
Directors and senior management
Avingtrans has continued to strengthen its senior management team and we welcomed a new Managing Director to Jena
Germany. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Jeremy Hamer retires from the Board in rotation and offers himself for
re-election at the AGM scheduled for 11 October 2006.
Share warrants
K M Baker (772,000) and S J Lawrence (398,000) exercised share warrants in the Company in February and March 2006 under
investment and performance contracts entered into in 2002. The shares were awarded at a price of 50p each. In total 748,000
were sold into the market and 422,000 were retained by the two directors. As well as receiving the income from the issue of
the shares during the year the Company also benefited from a  tax credit of  300,000 in respect of the share issue.
Outlook
Order intake and sales continue to be very encouraging at C&H, Jena and Crown though some work for Crown on railway
signalling may be postponed until the second half of FY 2007. The weakening US dollar and a softening US market does
appear to be slowing growth in the MRI scanner market so reducing growth prospects at SMC in this product area. Actions,
which have been developed in the last year and a half, on other market areas and other products for SMC are expected to keep
SMC at full capacity particularly in the second half of the current year.
Since the acquisition of Sigma two managers have expatriated to China, a Chinese management team has been put in place,
the first batch of machine tools have been ordered and we expect to be operational in a new 30,000sq/ft facility by the end of
2006 as planned. A letter of intent to purchase components for up to  2 million per annum has been received by Sigma.
Work also continues on the processing of suitable acquisition opportunities with a number under review.
With most major economies remaining strong and the products and services offered by the Group remaining in demand we
look forward to another year of profitable growth. 
In closing I should like once again on behalf of the Board to heartily congratulate and thank all of the employees and co-
workers for their successful efforts in the past year.
K M Baker
Chairman
5 September 2006