 14 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
Chairman's statement
Directors' Report: Group overview
Results in line with expectations
The Group's financial results were in line with
market expectations and reflect the stage we are
at in developing the business. Capital allocation
in recent years has focused on building and
commercialising our resource base. With first oil
from Ghana later this year, we are entering a phase
that should deliver major production growth, which
should underpin a stronger financial performance.
As a result, Tullow is in a period of transition and
this will be reflected in our 2010 and 2011 results.
In 2009, the Group's financial results were down
compared with a record 2008. This is mainly as
a result of lower production volumes, lower
commodity prices and an increased charge for
IAS 39: Financial Instruments. In addition, while
exploration write-offs in 2009 were lower than 2008,
the Group had less profit on disposal of assets to
offset this as a result of lower levels of portfolio
management activity.
Continued exploration success
Exploration and Appraisal (E&A) activity continued
apace, delivering a record 87% success rate in 2009.
Highlights for the year include:
  The 300 million barrel Jobi-Rii discovery in Uganda,
one of Africa's largest onshore oil fields;
2009 was another great year for
Tullow. Across the business our
people, processes, operations
and projects delivered on all fronts.
Over the years we have built a strong
reputation with host governments and
partners, which has helped us to grow
and monetise our resources and
deliver value for all stakeholders.
Pat Plunkett
Chairman www.tullowoil.com 15
tragedy has had on his family, whom we continue
to support. In addition, we undertook a comprehensive
response, spearheaded by Paul McDade, our Chief
Operating Officer and Board Director responsible
for EHS, and full details are set out on page 73.
Overall, our safety performance for the year was
satisfactory. We achieved our target of a Lost Time
Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of less than 1.0, but
we did not achieve our stretch target of 0.50 as
we recorded an outcome of 0.76 (2008: 0.54). Total
Recordable Injuries declined to 20 (2008: 28) and
High Potential Incidents (HIPOs) declined to 10
(2008: 24). Over 6.6 million hours were worked
in Tullow in 2009, an increase of 18% on 2008.
4.4 million of those hours were worked in Africa.
Excellent environmental engagement
Across the Group, a strong environmental
performance was achieved. There were no major
environmental incidents and good progress was
made with toes (Tullow Oil Environment Standards).
Some excellent work was undertaken with the Ghana
Jubilee Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and
public consultation process, the French Guiana EIA
and the environmentally sensitive approach taken
to drilling the Ngassa-2 well in Uganda. While
these case studies will be fully documented in our
upcoming 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report,
further information is available in the corporate
responsibility section on page 72 of this report.
  The commercial threshold for development of the
Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda was comfortably
exceeded with a 96% drilling success rate to date;
  An ongoing E&A campaign in Ghana confirmed
significant further potential;
  The Tweneboa discovery indicated the potential
of another world-class oil and gas accumulation,
some 25 km west of the Jubilee field; and
  The successful Venus B-1 exploration well in
Sierra Leone demonstrated a petroleum system
that spans two of the most exciting and highly
prospective basins in the world today.
Solid production and fast-track development
Excellent performance was achieved by production
and development. Highlights include:
  Efficient execution of incremental development
projects throughout our portfolio of assets to
achieve production of 58,300 boepd in 2009;
  Setting a new industry benchmark for the
fast-track development of the Jubilee field,
which is on target to deliver first oil in the
fourth quarter of this year;
  Best in class deepwater well delivery by the
Tullow well engineering team; and
  Initiating development work in Uganda that is
targeting first commercial oil in 2011, with early
production from well testing in 2010.
Creating value for all stakeholders
Our vision is to be the leading global independent oil
and gas company. To achieve this we have a clear and
consistent strategy and a long-term perspective on
how we develop our business. This means we protect
our reputation, carefully manage and mitigate risk
and invest in people and partnerships. We also work
to ensure that we create the internal and external
operating environment Tullow needs to successfully
continue our growth strategy and deliver our business
plans. By doing all of these things well, we create
competitive advantage for Tullow and more importantly
we create long-term benefits for all our stakeholders.
Keeping people safe
Our number one priority is to keep everyone who
works with Tullow or lives in our local communities
safe. We have a very clear Health and Safety (H&S)
policy which is strongly supported by our EHS
Leadership Team and commitment statements.
It is reflected in employee inductions, continuous
training and careful monitoring and reporting to
Tullow's Board and management.
Despite this, in 2009, Tullow had its first ever fatality
when a building contractor died at the Bangora gas
processing facility in Bangladesh. We deeply regret
his death and are very saddened by the effect this
Directors' Report: Group overview
0
70
140
210
280
350
420
490
560
630
700
09 08 07
370
540
669
Growth in total workforce
24%
year-on-year increase in Tullow's total workforce in 2009 as
we continued to invest in building our team and organisation. 16 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
Chairman's statement continued
Directors' Report: Group overview
Strong portfolio management
On 17 January 2010, Tullow chose to exercise
its right of pre-emption for the entire interests of
Heritage Oil plc, our partner in the Lake Albert Rift
Basin, in Uganda. A formal request for Government
consent to transfer these assets to Tullow was
submitted on 2 February 2010. The acquisition
price is expected to be up to US$1.5 billion.
Tullow is now working closely with the Government
to gain approval for the pre-emption of the Heritage
interests in parallel with the farmdown process,
which is now at an advanced stage. Two new
potential partners have been identified, CNOOC
and Total, and it is expected that each partner will
take a one third interest in each of the three blocks.
Presentations by all parties have recently been made
to the relevant Ugandan authorities and Tullow expects
the transactions to be signed in April 2010. This will
result in a unified partnership with considerable
experience and financial capability to enable Uganda
to become a significant oil producing nation.
Prudent dividend policy
The Group has very significant capital requirements
with forecast 2010 capital expenditure close to
 1 billion. As a result, the Board feels it is best
to continue to be conservative in its approach to
Tullow's dividend policy and that it is appropriate
to maintain the final dividend at the 2008 level.
The final dividend proposed is 4.0 pence per share,
which brings the total payout for 2009 to 6.0 pence
per share (2008: 6.0 pence per share). The dividend
will be paid on 21 May 2010 to shareholders on the
register on 16 April 2010. The Annual General Meeting
will be held on 12 May 2010 at Haberdashers Hall
in London.
Consistent strategy
With partners and governments we are working to
commercialise two world-class basins in Ghana and
Uganda. We are retaining our exploration focus with
up to 12 Equatorial Atlantic, 10 Ugandan and eight
wildcat wells planned in our 2010 E&A programme.
We are underpinning these activities with appropriate
financing and risk management strategies.
Our short to medium-term objective is to build a
business with a production output and operational
cash flow that is capable of funding a major annual
exploration programme.
Dynamic risk management
Risk management is an integral part of our strategy
and our operations. As a business we could not
function at such a high level unless we are very
specific about the identification and management
of risk, and how we respond if things go wrong.
Risk factors are reported monthly to the Board in
an independent process which is validated by Group
Internal Audit. It is a dynamic system that continually
I would like to take this opportunity
to thank our shareholders and
banking partners for their
continued strong support, which
is fundamental to the long-term
success of Tullow.
Pat Plunkett
Chairman
Building a very strong team
Each year I write about the level of investment we are
making in building the Tullow organisation. 2009 was
no different. The Tullow team continued to grow with
182 new people joining during the year. Our total
workforce is now 880 people with 669 full time
employees and 211 full time contractors. We are
also investing in developing in-country skills and
now have over 75% Ugandan nationals working in
our operations in Uganda and over 80% Ghanaians
in our operations in Ghana.
Our 2009 independent employee survey delivered
excellent engagement results and most representative
of all was staff turnover of only 2.0% during the year.
This survey also demonstrated good engagement
with our values and culture, which is an important
measure, as the Group continues to grow.
Strengthened capital structure
Our finance team secured US$2 billion and US$250
million debt facilities in March and December 2009
and raised gross proceeds of  1.3 billion with two
successful equity placings in January 2009 and
January 2010. The combination of the Group's equity
and debt raising and the successful completion of
the Ugandan farmdown will ensure that Tullow is
adequately capitalised to fund its medium-term
strategy. Further information on Tullow's strategy,
long-term financing and risk management are on
pages 24, 60 and 62.
In February 2010, we received preliminary results
of an independent investment community perception
survey. The results are very positive and the Board
looks forward to a full presentation in April to review,
and address as appropriate, some of the strategic
considerations this research has raised.