  During my first year as Chairman,  
I have visited Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, 
South Africa and Ireland. I have met 
politicians, NGOs, partners, shareholders 
and employees to ensure that their 
views help inform our decision-making 
about the business. 
Simon Thompson Chairman
Your Board believes that the major opportunities and challenges facing Tullow are to maintain our success 
in exploration; to optimise our portfolio of exploration, appraisal and development assets; to continue to 
develop trusting and mutually beneficial relationships with our key stakeholders; and to build a strong 
multi-disciplinary team focused on success without compromising the Group's entrepreneurial culture.
FOCUSI NG ON  
EXPLORA TION - LED GROWTH
Over the past year your Company has achieved significant 
success in delivering our exploration-led growth strategy and 
made good progress towards achieving our vision of becoming 
the leading independent oil company by creating shared 
prosperity for our shareholders and our host countries.
Industry-leading exploration-led growth
In 2012, we invested close to $1 billion in exploration and 
appraisal, drilling 46 wells with a success ratio of 74%. The 
discovery of a new oil basin in Kenya - the fourth major basin-
opening discovery by Tullow in the past seven years - was the 
highlight of the year and significant success was also achieved 
in Uganda and Ghana. There were also some disappointments, 
particularly the Zaedyus-2 well offshore French Guiana, which 
failed to intersect oil but nevertheless added significantly to  
our knowledge of this new oil basin. The exploration pipeline  
has been refreshed with five new country entries, creating  
future opportunities in our core plays in Africa and the  
Atlantic Margins.
High-quality, oil-focused production
Jubilee field production issues, offshore Ghana, were 
successfully and cost-effectively remediated in 2012. The field  
is currently producing around 110,000 bopd and the total well 
production capacity is now over 120,000 bopd. There was a slight 
shortfall in overall Group production versus our target for 2012 
due to the enforced shutdown of Tullow's non-operated 
production in the Caister Murdoch System (CMS) area of the UK 
in early December 2012 following a third-party safety incident. 
As a result, Group working interest production averaged  
79,200 boepd, which was broadly similar to 2011. Production 
guidance for 2013 is in the range of 86,000 to 92,000 boepd.  
This guidance includes gas producing assets currently held  
for sale. Following the proposed sale of these assets, Tullow's 
production will be predominantly focused on higher-margin,  
low cost-per-barrel light oil.
Steady progress in Uganda
In February 2012, we signed two Production Sharing 
Agreements with the Government of Uganda and completed  
the $2.9 billion farm-down of two-thirds of our Ugandan licences 
to CNOOC and Total. During the course of the year we largely 
completed the current phase of exploration activity and made 
steady progress with our partners and the Government in 
shaping a common vision for the development of the country's 
oil industry. However, much work remains before a final 
investment decision can be taken.
You can now watch Simon's video 
interview online to find out more about 
the shape of our business, governance 
and responsibilities. 
Video online
www.tullowoil.com/ARA2012/chairmans_statement
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
12 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW
1
More information
44 Risk management
86  Chairman's introduction to  
corporate governance
88 Board objectives and performance
Well-funded and strong balance sheet 
The farm-down of Uganda transformed Tullow's balance sheet 
and high-value production growth in Ghana underpins strong 
operational cash flow for the Group, approaching $2 billion per 
annum. In November 2012, Tullow extended the final maturity of 
its $3.5 billion Reserves Based Lending credit facility to 2019 and 
took the opportunity to create a more flexible facility to better 
serve its funding needs. 
Increasing reserves & resources
In November 2012, we submitted a Plan of Development (PoD) 
for the Tweneboa-Enyenra-Ntomme (TEN) project in Ghana,  
with first production targeted for approximately 30 months  
after PoD approval. Group commercial reserves have  
increased to approximately 390 mmboe due to the transfer of 
TEN contingent oil resources. Group contingent resources have 
also been enhanced following discoveries in Kenya and C te 
d'Ivoire and appraisal success in Uganda. At the end of 2012, 
total commercial reserves and contingent resources were  
1,203 mmboe. 
Active portfolio management 
We took a decision to exit Bangladesh and Pakistan and expect 
to complete these disposals by the end of 2013. We also 
announced our intention to sell our gas assets in the UK and 
Netherlands sectors of the Southern North Sea. These assets 
have served Tullow well, providing vital cash flow to fund our 
ambitious exploration programme, but they no longer fit with 
our strategy of pursuing big oil exploration opportunities and  
can no longer compete for capital effectively with other projects 
within our opportunity-rich portfolio.
Solid financial performance 
Sales revenue grew by 2% to $2.3 billion (2011: $2.3 billion)  
due to higher sales volumes. Average oil prices were in line  
with 2011. Profit from continuing activities before tax increased 
by 4% to $1,116 million (2011: $1,073 million). The $701 million 
pre-tax gain on the Uganda farm-down was largely offset  
by an increase in exploration write-offs, which amounted to  
$300 million for 2012 activities, coupled with a further asset 
write-down announced at the half year, giving a total write-off  
of $671 million (2011: $121 million), and higher operating costs 
associated with mature fields. Profit from continuing activities 
after tax declined 3% to $666 million (2011: $689 million) and 
basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing activities 
decreased 5% to 68.8 cents (2011: 72.5 cents). In view of Tullow's 
intensive exploration campaign in 2013, the Board intends to 
maintain the final dividend payment of 8.0 pence per share, 
bringing the total payout for the year to 12 pence per share. 
Details of the AGM are set out on page 125.
Corporate responsibility and shared prosperity
New EHS key performance indicators emphasise preventative 
actions, including major reviews of well engineering, process 
safety and asset integrity. Good work continued in encouraging 
local entrepreneurs to enter the supply chain and we continue  
to invest in the development of local communities, particularly 
through capacity-building, scholarships and local employment 
opportunities. Stakeholder engagement activity increased 
substantially during the year, in order to foster a better 
understanding of the oil industry and to solicit feedback  
on how we can improve our performance.
Board changes
Non-executive Directors David Williams and Steve McTiernan 
retired after six and 10 years respectively of exceptional service 
to Tullow. In 2012, Steve Lucas and Anne Drinkwater joined  
the Board, bringing valuable financial and industry experience. 
David Bamford has taken over as Senior Independent Director.
An exceptional team of people 
I would also like to thank all of our employees and contractors, 
ably led by Aidan Heavey and the Executive team, for their 
continuing hard work and commitment. At each engagement 
across the Group in 2012, your Board and I have been impressed 
by the sense of pride and responsibility amongst our staff, as  
we set about building an oil industry in new regions of the world. 
In this year's report we have taken the opportunity to highlight 
some of the Tullow teams at work across the business, 
underlining the central role that people play in our success.
A clear strategy and a positive outlook
In the Chief Executive's review on pages 14 to 16, Aidan has 
reaffirmed our clear and consistent exploration-led growth 
strategy and the role of production and asset monetisation in 
funding our exploration programme and selective developments. 
Looking to the future, the outlook for the oil price is good, our 
exploration and development pipeline remains strong, and 
production growth is back on track. We start 2013 with a real 
sense of excitement and focus on the delivery of our exploration-
led growth strategy.
 
Simon R Thompson 
Chairman
2012 GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 60% of our total workforce has participated in  
Code of Business Conduct training and this work 
continues in 2013;
 Women now make up 18% of your Board as we  
continue to address the legacy of poor gender diversity  
in the oil industry;
 Two new Directors were appointed, broadening your 
Board's skills and experience to reflect the evolving needs 
of the Group;
 Following a review of risk management, a new EHS 
sub-committee of the Board has been established  
to enable greater focus on these issues;
 We have overhauled and simplified our remuneration 
policy after consultation with major shareholders; and
 We have increased engagement with employees, 
politicians, NGOs, partners and shareholders, in order  
to ensure that their views are taken into account in  
Board discussions.
13 www.tullowoil.com