  3 
 
 
 
Chairman's Statement 
 
Introduction 
It is particularly pleasing in these challenging market conditions to report that, once again, 
progress has been made in meeting our twin strategic objectives; expanding our customer 
base and developing our manufacturing facilities, both of which continue to support our solid 
and profitable performance when compared with our peer group.  
 
Business Summary 
Turbotec manufactures high performance, high quality heat exchangers, and heat transfer 
tubing and fabricated metal components.  The Company markets its products primarily in the 
United States with a small proportion of sales abroad to customers in a variety of industries 
including space conditioning, refrigeration, marine, swimming pool and spa, food and 
beverage, appliance and water heating.  All manufacturing activities are carried out in the 
United States. 
 
Results and Earnings 
As we reported in our half-year report in November 2009, and third quarter in February 2010, 
sales for the year ended 31 March 2010 decreased significantly, by 26.5%, to $19.8 million 
from $27 million in the previous year.  In previous years, our sales had been uplifted by rising 
commodity prices, whereas more recently lower raw material prices have been reflected in our 
selling prices.  This, along with the much lower volume demand meant our gross profit 
decreased by 27.4% to $5.45 million from $7.51 million in the previous year. Operating profit 
fell by 49.5% to $1.2 million (2009: $2.4 million) due primarily to one-off administrative costs, 
including around $780,000 in legal and related one off administrative costs associated with the 
dispute with our majority shareholder, Thermodynetics, Inc. (2009: $250,000). We also 
capitalised investment costs of around $160,000 relating to our new manufacturing facilities in 
Hickory N.C. 
 
Operations 
During the course of the year it became obvious to the Board that the difficulties of not only 
sustaining but growing the business in Connecticut would increase, despite the great efforts 
by our people to improve our competitive position.  The previously notified slowing demand 
from major customers throughout the year meant taking steps to reduce operating costs at our 
Windsor plant.  Looking to the future, we are pleased to report that our pilot facility in Hickory 
is now operating successfully.     4 
As we announced on 15 March 2010, the plans for greater capacity are well advanced to 
consolidate all our operation into one larger facility during the current year.  The Board 
believes the lower cost base, good access to an abundant skills base and strong work ethic 
demonstrated at our current Hickory facility will also offer further opportunities for cost savings 
to maximize the benefit from our ambitious sales growth plans in the future.  
 
Legal Disputes 
On 10 May 2010, the Company was pleased to announce that the court had ruled in its favour 
in relation to its legal dispute with Thermodynetics, Inc. (TDYT ) regarding the payment of 
administration fees, bringing to an end the hugely distracting and costly litigation instituted by 
the Company's majority shareholder.  
 
The dispute arose in June 2007 when TDYT claimed that it was entitled to certain dividends 
despite the payment of administration fees to it by the Company under a Relationship 
Agreement, entered into with the Company at the time of its admission to AIM.  The provisions 
of the agreement stated that in circumstances where the Company paid dividends to TDYT 
then this reduced the amount of administration fee accordingly, and if dividends were paid 
over two consecutive years which were equal to or more than the amount of the annual 
administration fee owed to TDYT for each of those years, then the obligation to pay any 
further administration fees terminated.  As the Company had paid the annual administration 
fee in monthly instalments in accordance with the Relationship Agreement, once TDYT later 
became entitled to a dividend for that year the administration fee was recovered by way of set 
off against the dividend, with only the excess being paid to TDYT. 
 
TDYT contested this interpretation of the agreement and claimed that dividends should be 
paid in full, payment of a dividend only suspended payment of the administration fee and that 
the two year test had not been met. 
 
Despite attempts by the Board to negotiate a settlement with TDYT, the Company was unable 
to avoid action being taken and was forced to defend its position when TDYT brought an 
action against it in January 2008.   
   5 
In his judgment, His Honour Judge Dight, sitting as a Judge of the High Court, stated that the 
annual administration fee had been calculated solely by reference to TDYT's cash needs and 
bore no relation to the services that TDYT had claimed to provide for the fee, adding that it 
was clear to him that the provisions of the Relationship Agreement for the payment of the 
administration fee were not a genuine transaction but a disguised return of capital. The Judge 
did not accept that the continued funding of TDYT, in order to pay the salaries of Mr. Lerman 
(President and CEO of TDYT) and Mr. Ferraro (Treasurer and CFO of TDYT), was proper.   
 
He noted that Mr Lerman had refused to accept that the Company was to be an independent 
company with obligations to members of the public as well as to TDYT, and that, although 
TDYT had claimed that the services it provided included the oversight by Mr Lerman of the 
Company's activities, it was inappropriate for him to provide any such role and that following 
the Company's admission he no longer had the knowledge and skills to be of use to the 
Company. 
 
The Judge also supported the Company's view on its correct interpretation of the provisions of 
the Relationship Agreement and its treatment of the administration fee, in that TDYT were 
entitled to either the administration fee or dividends for a particular year, but not both.  In 
addition he noted that the Company's further offer of a settlement in November 2009, before 
the case was heard in court, should have been accepted by TDYT in the circumstances, 
prompting him to award certain of the costs on an indemnity basis against TDYT from that 
date. A full copy of the court judgment is available in the investor relations section on the 
Company's website should shareholders wish to read it. 
 
The interim cost award of  350,000 has already been received, and the balance of the total 
cost award is currently being determined by the court and our legal advisers. The amounts 
received will be reflected in the group's results for the year ended 31 March 2011. On 28 April 
TDYT announced that it had sold 26% of its shareholding in the Company in order to pay or 
reduce its currently outstanding obligations. 
  
The remaining dispute which relates to the lease created in April 2006 by TDYT, and to the 
overcharging of rent for both the sites occupied by our operations in Windsor will be heard in 
the Hartford courts later this year. 
   6 
Dividends 
For the year ended March 2008, the Company paid a total dividend of 6.3 cents per share 
(3.35p per share) and it is our intention, following the determination and payment of the 
remaining costs award referred to above, to return to and maintain a progressive dividend 
policy in the future. The Board is mindful of the additional one-off costs that will be incurred 
during this year with the planned business relocation to Hickory. 
 
People 
The current business climate has placed exceptional demands on our employees at all levels 
and the Board would once again like to sincerely thank all employees for their dedication and 
support during this difficult year. 
 
Outlook 
Given the constant feedback Turbotec receives from our all our customers, we continue to 
take a cautious view of the general business environment.  We have experienced reduced 
demand for the past five quarters and most indicators show little or slow improvement for the 
remainder of the calendar year. Order intake from our existing customers remains slightly 
subdued, but we continue to focus on expansion of our customer base.  We believe that given 
ever-increasing energy prices affecting running costs and the growing awareness of global 
warming issues, our products continue to be well placed to exploit further opportunities, 
particularly when the economy improves.  
 
Despite the non-trading related issues that have hampered the Company's progress over the 
past two years, we have nonetheless continued to strengthen our business in many important 
ways during the most difficult economic conditions and this, coupled with the substantial 
opportunity presented by the proximity of our new major manufacturing location in Hickory to 
our Southern U.S customers, gives the Board every confidence in the future prospects for the 
Company.  
 
 
Tom Nairn 
Chairman 