 3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
IN THE PAST YEAR, THE GROUP'S OPERATING STRENGTHS,
AGILE DECISION-MAKING BY THE EXECUTIVE TEAM AND
FAVOURABLE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT HAVE DELIVERED THE
BEST PERFORMANCE ON RECORD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS. I AM
PLEASED TO OBSERVE THE CONTINUING FLEXIBILITY OF THE
BUSINESS AND THE STRENGTH OF THE GROUP'S PRODUCT
PORTFOLIO. IN A DYNAMICALLY EVOLVING ENVIRONMENT OF
DAIRY SECTOR IN UKRAINE SUCH A COMBINATION IS A
POWERFUL PORTENT FOR THE SOUNDNESS AND VITALITY OF
THE UNDERLYING BUSINESS MODEL.
Results
Against the background of robust domestic demand and the
favourable situation on world markets for skimmed milk powder,
the Group reported sales of  48.1 million, an increase of 37% on the previous year. EBITDA, calculated
as Profit from operations add back depreciation and amortisation, grew from  2.8 million in 2006 to
 5.5 million, an increase of over 96%. An increase in gross margins from 20.7% to 21.7% contributed
to a three-fold increase in Profit before tax from  1.2 million to  3.7 million.
For the domestic business in Ukraine, 2007 was a period of full recovery in consumer confidence
which had been hit hard by the Russian embargo on import of Ukrainian dairy products in early 2006.
It is now obvious that the Group's strategy of refusing to buckle under the huge price pressure in 2006
paid well in the current year as sales recovered and margins improved. The development of the product
portfolio, while relatively minor, has helped to secure the broad presence and recognition of the
products on the shelves of the fast-developing retailers. For the international business, the past year
was exceptional. Nearly all dairy products, skimmed milk powder in particular, have experienced a
surge in demand with prices adjusted upwards, accordingly. The Group managed to capitalise on the
opportunities presented with the timely installation of the new skimmed milk dryer in December 2006;
from January 2007 onwards the new equipment operated at a near full capacity and produced skimmed
milk of excellent grade. As a result, both volumes and prices of skimmed milk powder have been
remarkably robust.
Dividends
It has been the Group's dividend policy to reward shareholders in line with the trading performance of
the business and financial results whilst maintaining the cash position of the business and supporting
the balance between reinvesting profits and dividend distributions. In view of the recovery in the
Group's core business in Ukraine and strong financials delivered by the business, the Board is
recommending a final dividend payment of 0.82 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31
December 2007 which would lead to 1.40 pence per ordinary share for the full year. If approved at the
AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 30 June 2008 to the shareholders on record as at 6 June 2008.
Strategy
2007 validated one of the central business principles of Ukrproduct Group, that of the profitable
retention of the Group's position in its core business segments. As before, these are soft (processed)
cheese, butter, skimmed milk powder and the most recent addition of hard cheese. While maintaining
the market position in branded soft cheese, the Group also demonstrated an ability to continue to
improve margins in the butter segment.
In production, our strategy remains focussed on manufacturing excellence with only the newest and
most advanced equipment installed in our plants and only the most up-to-date technical expertise
contracted for the industrial work. A significant amount of capex, some  11 million in total, has been
dedicated over the last three years to upgrading our plants and supporting the Group's competitive
position in Ukraine. This capex has resulted in our productions facilities being one of our best assets, 4
serving as the Group's manufacturing platform and creating a significant barrier to entry to potential
competitors.
Brands, as we always believed, are our most treasured business resource. They withstood a number of
business challenges, including competitive pressure, portfolio adjustment, price repositioning and
changing habits of consumers. Today, as ever, we are convinced that our brands, led by Nash
Molochnik  (Our Dairyman), are some of the most recognisable and profitable in Ukraine's dairy sector.
We are careful in preserving their integrity by conducting targeted in-store merchandising campaigns
and adhering to a policy aimed at price and quality differentiation.
Our distribution network, always the backbone of the business, has been strengthened and streamlined.
The development of the modern retail formats in Ukraine has seen the role of the Group's distribution
network defined with greater clarity. We envisage that the central warehouse facilities of the
supermarkets will play a bigger role in delivering the goods to customers in the future however the time
of the full-cycle service delivery has not yet come. In this transitional period of three to five years, we
are keen to support the customers, both at retail and distribution level, by providing all necessary
logistical support for the timely delivery of our products and associated services.
Our export operation has seen substantial progress in the last year. Buoyed by nearly a two-fold
increase in skimmed milk powder capacity and by significant quality improvement, Starkon Plant has
enjoyed a close-to-capacity utilisation in 2007. While the situation on the world markets in 2007 has
clearly been exceptional, we believe that with the new equipment the opportunities to capitalise on the
favourable prices will be a material benefit for the Group in the future.
In early 2008, Ukraine's long-awaited accession to WTO finally happened. As this Report goes to print,
the details of Ukraine's commitments are not yet known in detail; neither is the potential impact of the
accession to Ukrproduct's business. We expect, however, that the new opportunities for our business
will be significant, in particular with respect to the opening of the hitherto closed export markets for
skimmed milk powder. We intend to sustain the growth in the future by growing organically via
construction of the new modern facilities as high production and quality standards become vital for the
Ukrainian dairy producers to be able to comply with the WTO requirements. In one potential area of
growth in Ukraine, acquisitions, we will continue to screen the appropriate quality targets as bolt-on
additions to the Group's core businesses.
Board composition
On 10 April 2008 Iryna Yevets tendered her resignation as Chief Executive Officer of the Company in
order to pursue other business interests. Subsequently, on 22 April 2008, Sergey Evlanchik was
appointed Chief Executive Officer. Sergey was Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the time of the
Company's admission to AIM in February 2005 and was instrumental in UPG's success prior to and
post flotation, establishing the Company as one of the market leaders in the Ukrainian dairy produce
market until he resigned this position in June 2006. The Board would like to thank Iryna for her work
over the last six years and her contribution to the development of the Company and its product offering.
Outlook
Looking forward, the Board sees a number of opportunities to expand and improve the business.
Firstly, we are encouraged to see the continuing shift of consumer demand in Ukraine towards quality
products at a reasonable price. This is a trend which the Group has used to its advantage in the past
and shall continue to employ in the future. The Group's brand portfolio is diversified yet focused
enough to withstand the competitive pressures. Improving recognition and sales of particular growth
products, such as smoked sausage cheese, is the best way forward for leveraging our industrial and
commercial advantages.  Secondly, we are convinced that consolidation in the dairy industry of Ukraine
is inevitable and is slowly happening. While it is difficult to assess a direct financial impact of this
process on the Group, we nevertheless believe that the competitors are weakening and will gradually
lose the ability to produce and distribute dairy products. This bodes well, although indirectly, for the
Group's trading performance. In addition, barriers to entry into a dairy business in Ukraine of a
commercially meaningful scale are very high and we believe that this barrier delivers a sizeable benefit
to the Group. Finally, our manufacturing base is now working towards providing a major competitive 5
advantage for the Group. At both of the Group's locations at Zhytomir and Starkon, we now have
centres of flexible production capable of delivering quality products at short notice. This manufacturing
ability is increasingly important in Ukraine and seasonal factors and shifts in consumer preferences
demand greater flexibility from the leading dairy producers.
It was a year of the excellent achievements. I congratulate everyone at the Group with the success and
look forward to the new exciting year.
Jack Rowell
Chairman
22 April 2008