 Annual Report & Accounts
Chairman's statement
2
The year ending 30 June 2007 has been a transformational year for the Group. The investment programme that commenced 
at the end of 2005 is now complete. Site refurbishments, combined with targeted investment in training and marketing, have 
put our core estate of bars, clubs and hotels in strong competitive positions within their local markets. The benefi ts of this 
capital expenditure are already being enjoyed within the business and this will accelerate in the current year.
At the same time, we have made a number of acquisitions both to expand our geographic footprint outside our traditional 
North East heartland and also to increase our exposure to food income. Notably we acquired both the  Bel and The Dragon' 
and  The Living Room' businesses. These acquisitions and our investment programme have cemented the Group's position at 
the premium end of the market. 
To refl ect the new focus of the Group we will be formally changing the name of the company to  Premium Bars and 
Restaurants plc'. A resolution to this effect will be put before our AGM.
The Board believes that a name change refl ects the positive strides the Group has taken over the last two years and is more 
appropriate for the future direction and strategy of the company.
Operational and fi nancial review
Financial results
Turnover for the year increased by 11.8% to  36.3m (2006:  32.5m). Pre tax profi t before exceptional items and FRS 20 
charge was  0.4m (2006:  1.5m), EBITDA was  4.2m (2006:  4.7m). Profi t in the year was impacted by the short-term 
closure of fi fteen outlets for refurbishment and also the losses incurred by our non-core sites.
As part of our continued efforts to improve the overall quality of the estate, several non-core sites have been identifi ed for 
disposal. These disposals are at an advanced stage and the carrying value of these assets has been impaired by  2m at 30 June 
2007 to refl ect the expected loss on their disposal.
Due to the changes at senior management level and the organisational structure put in place to refl ect the new enlarged 
shape of the business, a one-off exceptional restructuring cost of  0.3m was also charged to the profi t and loss account 
during the year.
In March 2007 the Group successfully raised  25m by way of a share placing. After the recent acquisitions we still have  7m 
of these funds available for further acquisitions.
The Group's fundamental fi nances remain sound with a strong balance sheet, good asset base, low gearing and strong cash 
generation.
Following the acquisitions of  The Living Room' and  Bel and The Dragon', the Group negotiated new banking facilities which 
will fund the expansion of the two brands and  Prohibition'.
Dividends
The Board has previously stated its intention to reinvest in the core estate and to seek further earnings enhancing and 
strategically complimentary acquisitions. As a result, the Board has decided not to propose a fi nal dividend for the year.
Business review
The trading environment in the year continued to be challenging as the long term impact of the new licensing laws continued 
to be felt across the business. The investment programme continued at pace throughout the year as we refurbished our 
estate thereby increasing the competitiveness of the Group. In total we carried out major capital investments in fi fteen bars 
and one hotel, spending a total of  2.3m. In the current fi nancial year, therefore, our capital spend on our core estate will 
drop substantially.
Additionally, a substantial investment was made into marketing and training to improve promotional activity and customer 
service. As previously disclosed, the overall profi tability of the Group was temporarily impacted by the closure of a number of 
outlets for refurbishment during the year as well as the increased investment in marketing initiatives.
Despite this we achieved like-for-like sales improvement of 1% in the year. This investment has been vital to the long-term 
growth prospects of the business.
I am pleased to report signifi cant progress in our strategy to balance our traditionally wet-led income streams with greater 
exposure to increasingly profi table food sales. For the second year in a row, our food sales grew very strongly with total sales 
up 129% and like-for-like sales up 47%, albeit from a relatively small base. This greater exposure to food has been invaluable in 
our successful preparations for the Northern Irish and English smoking bans.   Annual Report & Accounts
3
Chairman's statement (contin ued)
Smoking ban
A signifi cant amount of management time and over  250,000 of capital investment went into preparing for the smoking ban 
in Northern Ireland (30 April 2007) and England (1 July 2007). We were fully prepared for the bans and approximately two 
thirds of our estate has smoking solutions in place. Overall the bans have had a very limited impact to date. 
Acquisitions and development
During the year we disposed of two non-core nightclub sites in Rotherham and South Shields for book value. We currently 
have four more sites under offer that we previously identifi ed as being non-core. 
We acquired four new premium bar sites; two leasehold bars in Belfast - The Advocate and the Potthouse; and two freehold 
bars - The Attic in Newcastle and The Cotton Factory in Huddersfi eld. These venues are positioned in the premium bar 
market and enjoy signifi cant food sales.
Our most signifi cant investments, however, have followed the placing we undertook in March 2007. The  25m raised gave us 
substantial scope to grow our business through acquisition.
On 18 June 2007 we acquired the  Bel and The Dragon' business for a cash consideration of  8.875m. Of the four sites, three 
are freeholds. The Bel and The Dragon business is a premium pub restaurant brand, and in its last fi nancial year to 25 June 
2007 produced EBITDA of  1.05m.
On 25 June 2007 we acquired Living Ventures Ltd ( Living Ventures') for a total cash consideration of  28.53m. Living 
Ventures owns the Living Room brand. The business was formed in 1999, and the Living Room brand is a high quality 
restaurant and bar business operating from 13 sites in England and Scotland.
In the fi nancial year to 30 March 2007, the Living Room delivered sales of  29.2m and site EBITDA of  6.05m. As part of 
the acquisition, we took on a number of key executives from Living Ventures, representing an associated central overhead 
of  0.85m. Danny Fox, who played a central part in building  The Living Room' brand, joined us as Managing Director of The 
Living Room Group Ltd, and brought with him his highly regarded Operations, Marketing and Training team. He has also 
assumed responsibility for the  Prohibition' brand.
The Board expects both deals to be earnings enhancing in the fi rst year of ownership. The acquisitions are in line with the 
Group's stated strategy of balancing wet-led income streams with an increased exposure to food income. They provide 
the Group with established formats and brands at the premium end of the market, and the Group should benefi t from the 
greater economies of scale from the operation of over fi fty assets. The integration of both groups is proceeding ahead of 
schedule. 
There are exciting opportunities to grow the total number of sites for both brands and at present we have identifi ed three 
sites for  The Living Room', including one in Bristol which will open by Easter 2008. We believe that  The Living Room' 
brand has the capability to expand to thirty sites and we are currently seeking opportunities in a number of target towns. 
Additionally we are currently seeking more sites for  Bel and The Dragon' and for  Prohibition'. The Group is well positioned 
to maximise the benefi ts for shareholders of the roll out of these three exciting brands.
People
During the year we welcomed Stephane Nahum and Alka Bali to the board, both as non-executive directors. 
The Board wish to thank all of their employees for the contribution that they have made over the fi nancial year.
International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS')
The Group is required to produce its 31 December 2007 interim report under IFRS and is currently undertaking a project to 
assess the fi nancial and presentational impact of these changes from UK GAAP.
Current trading and outlook
Whilst it is still early we have had an encouraging start to the current year. Total group sales for the fi rst nine weeks to 2 
September are up 109% compared to last year and food sales are more than 13 times the level of last year, both boosted 
by our recent acquisitions. Food now accounts for over 20% of total sales. On a like-for-like basis we have maintained sales 
despite the smoking bans and poor summer weather.
The investment in the core estate is now complete and we believe that the Group is in a better position than ever before. 
With the acquisitions of  The Living Room' and  Bel and The Dragon' we now have a strong portfolio of premium brands, 
providing the Group with an enhanced platform for growth in what remains a competitive market. With  7m of placing 
proceeds unspent we will also look for opportunities to acquire more businesses that we believe will be earnings enhancing 
for our shareholders.
As a result we continue to be confi dent about delivering value to shareholders into the current year and beyond.
MV Jones 
Chairman 19 September 2007