 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
02
Chairman's Statement
Dear shareholder
UBM's creditable performance in 2009 is a tribute to the resilience  
of our people and management. The business has continued to  
progress both strategically and operationally in all of its divisions  
and is increasingly well positioned to generate excellent returns as  
the global economy recovers.
UBM's strategy
UBM's strategy has been implemented consistently over the past  
five years. W e continue to invest in businesses that serve specialist 
professional and commercial communities with events, information, 
marketing services and media products. They range from tradeshows, 
news distribution, virtual careers fairs and social media monitoring to 
business information and market data analytical services. The skills, 
knowledge and experience gained in serving one community are 
transferred and reapplied to meet the needs of other communities in 
different markets and geographies, increasingly in rapidly-growing 
emerging markets, such as China, India and Brazil.
Resilient financial performance
In 2009 UBM delivered adjusted group operating profit
1
 that fell by 
1.3% to  171.2m (2008:  173.5m). These figures benefit from the 
depreciation of sterling and are improved by the positive effect of some 
of our large biennial tradeshows. Underlying operating profit
2
 was down 
by 13.9% and adjusted diluted earnings per share
3
 fell by 2.9% to 54.2p 
(2008: 55.8p). In statutory reporting terms, UBM recorded a group 
operating loss of  25.8m (2008: profit of  107 .6m) after exceptional 
items and a basic earnings per share of 30.9p (2008: 31.5p). The Board 
has announced a second interim dividend of 18.2p (2008: 18.2p), 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 24.2p (2008: 23.8p), 
representing an increase of 1.7% in the full year dividend.
Strategic progress amidst tough conditions
Our core divisions continued to develop in line with our strategy, 
particularly the live events portfolio which remains a key investment 
focus. The portfolio's performance was buoyed by notably strong 
performances by the biennial tradeshows Marintec in Shanghai and 
Seven-year dividend and EPS (pence)
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Dividend per share 9.0 12.0 15.0 18.0 21.6 23.8 24.2
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
3
21.7 29.0 36.6 43.8 52.3 55.8 54.2
Live events are of increasing strategic 
importance to UBM: in 2009 we ran more than 
300 events which generated more than 50%  
of our profits. Live events that offer  in person' 
face-to-face interaction - particularly when done 
at scale - have a strong future in the digital age. 
John Botts  
Chairman 
Adjusted group operating profit is group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible 1 
assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint 
ventures and associates. 
Underlying operating profit is operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets 2 
arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint ventures 
and associates adjusted for the estimated effects of acquisitions, discontinued products, foreign 
exchange and biennial events.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on 3 
acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating  
to exceptional items and net financing expense - other, after adjusting for the impact of  
share options.  Section 1: 2009 Review
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
03
Investing in our people
Our new CFO Bob Gray joined UBM in September from Codere SA,  
a Spanish-headquartered global gaming company. Previously Bob spent 
24 years in investment and commercial banking with Deutsche Bank 
and JP Morgan. W e bade farewell to Nigel Wilson as UBM's CFO and 
Deputy CEO. The Board thanks Nigel for the huge contribution he 
made to UBM's corporate development in his seven years with us, 
and we wish him well in his new role as CFO at Legal & General. 
The Board has been strengthened with the appointment of two  
new non-executive directors: T erry Neill, previously a senior partner  
in Accenture, and Greg Lock, who joined us in February 2010 and is a 
former senior IBM executive with extensive experience in the software 
and IT services industry. Karen Thomson and Pradeep Kar, both of 
whom have served as non-executive directors for three years, have agreed 
to continue for a further three year term and will be proposed for 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2010.
W e appointed five new divisional Chief Executives in 2009. Both 
Ninan Chacko at PR Newswire and Peter von Moltke at UBM Aviation 
were external appointments while Harry Page at UBM T echInsights, 
John Day at UBM Global Trade and Mike Coffey at RISI were all 
appointed from within UBM. Our growing ability to promote from 
within is in no small part attributable to our investment in our 
management development over the last several years, particularly the 
Business Leaders Programme which identifies promising UBM 
managers and equips them with skills to become exceptional business 
leaders. This growing cadre of executives will lead our future expansion.
Corporate responsibility 
UBM's corporate responsibility programmes operate across the 
Company but two are emblematic. In Brazil, UBM organised and 
underwrote a conference-expo, called NGO Brazil, to bring together 
non-governmental organisations operating in S o Paulo to share 
experiences and to learn from one another. By using UBM's commercial 
and operational skills, we are meeting our corporate responsibilities  
in one of our key markets and expect to geo-clone this event in  
other countries. 
Reducing UBM's carbon footprint is another example. In 2009  
we reduced our carbon output in the UK by 1,500 tonnes of CO2e  
as compared to 2008. Our new reporting systems will measure  
the carbon-related impact of our activities, enabling us to take action  
to further reduce that output.
Finally, the Board and I would like to thank the people of UBM for 
producing such a strong performance in this extremely difficult year.
John Botts  
Chairman
United Business Media Limited
Food Ingredients Europe in Frankfurt. The continuing  geo-cloning'  
of our successful products and services, particularly tradeshows, into 
emerging markets is now making an impact. Revenues in China, India 
and Brazil grew 35.9% and our profits in these countries substantially 
exceeded those in the UK. In China, UBM is the largest privately-
owned organiser of tradeshows, with a staff of more than 700 people. 
W e have also appointed a senior UBM representative in Beijing to 
reinforce our expansion and domestic presence.
Live events are of increasing strategic importance to UBM: in 2009  
we ran more than 300 events which generated more than 50% of our 
profits. Live events that offer  in person' face-to-face interaction - 
particularly when done at scale - have a strong future in the digital age. 
W e have also invested in the development of a range of  virtual' events 
which support the face-to-face experience of our tradeshows. W e see 
significant opportunities in taking advantage of the complementarities 
between virtual and  in person' events. W e ran 38 virtual events  
during 2009.
Digital age dynamics are reshaping the media industry and we 
continue to take advantage of the enormous business opportunities 
presented by this shift. W e concentrate on providing high value data and 
workplace solutions which allow professionals - from medical general 
practitioners to industrial procurement managers - to combine, 
rearrange and analyse datasets in support of their decision-making. 
This massive structural shift continues to compromise the future 
viability of print products and has been exacerbated by the economic 
downturn. Our strategy is to establish a smaller set of market-leading 
print titles which earn consistent margins. In 2009 we closed 31 titles,  
as well as merging and reducing the publication frequency of others.  
The process of rebalancing UBM's print portfolio is not yet complete 
- print magazine revenues contributed 19.6% of revenues and 5.2% of 
adjusted profits in 2009, compared with 56.2% and 28.5% respectively 
in 2004 - but there is a clear path towards reshaping UBM's print 
portfolio towards market leading and higher margin products. 
Unfortunately this process has also meant significant redundancies.  
The  16.5m restructuring charge largely reflects these costs.
Our acquisition programme is critical and has generated an 
aggregate return on investment of 9.2% (pre-tax) over the last three  
years from some 36 investments for a total of  170.2m, including  
the latest estimate of expected earnouts. UBM's management has 
significant expertise and experience which will continue to underpin  
the selection, acquisition and integration of compatible businesses at  
the right valuation.
W e have resolved our decade-long dialogue with the UK tax 
authorities over the tax payable on the sale of our Regional Newspapers 
business in 1998 by agreeing to make a payment of  46.5m in settlement 
of this and a number of other tax issues. This, together with the 
resolution of a number of other tax matters, has resulted in a release  
of  135.2m of our tax creditor.