  
  1   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
I am pleased to announce United Carpets Group's results for the year ended 31 March 2006. 
The Group has generated revenues of  17.65 million this year, compared to  15.11 million in 
2005 and is operating from 60 stores located throughout Northern and Central England. As 
announced in October 2005, the Board decided to switch from focusing on new store 
openings to providing greater support for existing stores to enable them to manage the 
challenging trading conditions. The reduced store opening programme naturally impacted on 
the Group's profitability; however, I believe the business is now more resilient and better 
positioned to grow organically as evidenced by the more recent like for like sales data. 
 
The business fundamentals remain strong and the Group is well positioned to continue 
rolling out its franchise concept. 
 
Financial review 
 
As part of a review of all accounting policies the Group has changed its accounting policy for 
income recognition in respect of the initial fee paid by new franchisees at the outset of a 
franchise arrangement. Previously, the Group accounting policy was to recognise the initial 
franchise fee income in full upon commencing a franchise arrangement. This policy has 
changed to spread this initial fee over 10 years, the term of the franchise arrangement. In the 
opinion of the directors the Group benefits from the franchise fee over the term of the 
franchise arrangement and it is, therefore, appropriate to recognise it over this period. This 
will better reflect the benefit of the fee to the Group and whilst in the short term this may 
moderate profits, it will enable growth in the profitability of the underlying business to be 
clearly reflected in the results. 
 
Total revenue increased by 16.8% to  17.65 million (2005:  15.11 million), reflecting the 
growth in store numbers during the year. Network sales across the Group, including the 
value of retail sales by our franchisees to give a measure of the Group's turnover on a more 
comparable basis to a conventional retailer, increased to  48.58 million (2005:  42.23 
million). 
 
Like for like sales were up 2.8% compared to the previous year. Following a challenging first 
half when like for like sales rose by 0.3%, increased investment in new marketing initiatives, 
improvements in the product range and better store presentation helped to increase like for 
like sales, which were up 5.2% in the second half of the year. Within the like for like sales 
performance the core floor coverings business achieved a 3.8% like for like increase on the 
previous year whilst bed like for like sales decreased by 4.0%. Underlying trends in 
consumer activity point to a swing towards carpets and away from laminate flooring. 
 
Gross margin increased from 63.8% to 66.6% which largely reflects the increased proportion 
of franchise related income to total revenue as the store network increases. 
 
The increase in distribution costs principally reflects the extra staff and marketing costs of the 
additional corporate stores operated during the year. Marketing and rental costs are incurred 
by the Group and recharged to franchisees in turnover. Consequently, administrative 
expenses reflect the increase in these costs as the network grows as well as the additional 
investment in marketing during the year, the occupancy costs of operating an increased 
number of corporate stores and the full year impact of the strengthening of the management 
team at the time of the float and associated ongoing costs of becoming a plc. 
   
  2   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Financial review (Continued) 
 
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 
 1.2million, a decrease of 39.4%. 
 
Earnings per share were 0.7p (2005: 1.9p). The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.5p 
per share (2005: nil) which together with the interim dividend of 0.25p per share (2005: nil) 
paid in January makes a total ordinary dividend of 0.75p per share for the year (2005: nil). 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on  
8 December 2006 to those shareholders whose names are on the register on 10 November 
2006. 
 
Operations review 
 
The Group operates 60 branded stores across Northern and Central England. With the 
exception of 11 corporate stores, the remainder are all franchises operating under United 
Carpets' bespoke franchise model, which aims to combine the advantages of a multiple 
retailer with the entrepreneurial drive of an independent. As the Group continues to expand 
so its economics will improve, in particular, from more cost effective advertising, as well as 
the ability to leverage the other benefits of increased scale. 
 
Floor coverings 
 
The majority of Group revenues are derived from the sale of floor coverings, predominantly 
carpet, laminate and vinyl flooring through franchised stores and the Group's own corporate 
stores. The market has remained challenging, however, the Group has responded well 
evidenced by the increase in like for like sales over the year. Product mix is constantly 
changing to reflect current fashions. We are suitably nimble to be able to react and we 
ensure that we do not carry excessive stock in any one style. Currently natural and beige 
colour floor coverings are proving popular. While carpet represents the majority of our sales, 
vinyl floorings have had a resurgence at the expense of laminate. 
 
We are continually seeking to position ourselves at the front of the market when it comes to 
offering service and new customer offerings. This has seen some developments in our 
bespoke carpet service in response to increasing demand from customers for this kind of 
service. Anecdotal evidence suggests a greater spend per customer in stores since they 
have been refurbished. 
 
The Group continues to carry out significant advertising in targeted areas where it has 
sufficient critical mass. Selective television advertising in particular has been very effective 
for the Group combined with print and radio. 
 
Beds 
 
Beds are sold through the majority of the store network with franchisees earning a 
commission on sales. Tough trading conditions during the year had a greater effect on our 
beds business than floor coverings due to the higher purchase price. However, improved 
product and marketing initiatives resulted in a significant improvement in like for like sales up 
3.8% for the second half of the year. Beds remain a key part of our customer offering and we 
continue to review ways to increase sales. 
   
  3   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Store opening programme 
 
The Group has reviewed its store opening programme to reflect changes in the market. 
Currently, we have 60 stores clustered around our target areas of Northern and Central 
England, with a further six stores planned to open in the coming months. Generally, new 
stores will be located within our existing footprint to maximize advertising opportunities and 
our market share. 
 
During the year, nine new stores opened in Chorley, Dudley, Huddersfield, Keighley, Leeds, 
Long Eaton, Nuneaton, Southport and Stetchford. The decision to reduce our store opening 
programme from the initial target of 15 enabled greater focus to be placed on providing better 
support for existing stores and addressing those stores which were significantly 
underperforming. In addition to our five principal corporate stores we started the year with 
four non-core corporate stores. During the year seven stores were taken back from 
franchisees making 11 non-core corporate stores, of which three were successfully 
franchised and one was closed. Franchisees were successfully replaced in six other 
franchised stores, one franchisee was relocated to a new site and one further franchised 
store closed in both cases following the ending of leases. Since the year end franchisees 
have been successfully replaced in two franchised stores and one of the non-core corporate 
stores has also been successfully franchised. Of the six remaining non-core corporate stores 
one is in advanced negotiations to be franchised, two are planned to be closed and suitable 
franchisees are being sought for the remaining three stores.  Further changes in franchisees 
can be expected, although we expect the annual rate to reduce in 2008 and beyond. 
 
We will continue to open stores where appropriate and have increased our investment in 
recruitment of franchisees and further developed our selction policies of both potential sites 
and franchisees. Whilst this may impact on our projected number of store openings, we are 
convinced that these measures will improve the quality of our franchise network to the long-
term benefit of the Group. 
 
People 
 
We now employ directly and indirectly over 320 people. A key focus during the period has 
been to invest in people. The internal appointment of an experienced manager to Group 
training manager has allowed us to run better and more frequent staff training programmes. 
Alongside our regular conferences in March and September, where there is an opportunity 
for franchisees to review and share experiences, we are running regular refresher courses 
focused on sales techniques, customer service and product innovations. 
 
The Board joins me in thanking all our employees for their hard work during the year and 
looks forward to working together in the future. 
   
  4   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Outlook  
 
Although the short-term outlook for the flooring market will remain challenging, the Board 
firmly believes that the Group's robust franchise model will continue to generate solid returns. 
Recent sales have been stronger than the equivalent period last year, with like for like sales 
increasing by 8.7% for the 15 weeks of the current financial year. Whilst some of this 
increase may be attributable to a late Easter, this was more than offset by the negative 
impact of the World Cup on our sector and the Board are confident the improved product mix 
in beds and recently refurbished bespoke carpet offering, will provide momentum for 
continued growth. The strength of our brand and marketing activity continues to attract new 
customers to our stores throughout Northern and Central England. 
 
The Company is in a strong financial position and the outlook for the future is positive. 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Chairman 