  1
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
I am pleased to be able to announce that the Group delivered a solid trading performance for the 
year. Revenues increased to  27.47m and profit before tax and exceptional items, increased by 
7.3% to  1.46m. The year under review was one of consolidation, following a significant increase in 
the number of stores in the previous year, and the objective was to reduce the number of corporate 
stores by matching them with new franchisees. We achieved this and introduced 24 new franchisees 
to the Group so that, at the period end, there were 82 stores of which 12 were corporate stores 
compared to the 23 corporate stores at the start of the financial year. 
 
Financial review 
 
Revenue, which as in previous years includes marketing and rental costs incurred by the Group and 
recharged to franchisees, increased by 2.5% to  27.47m (2009:  26.79m). Network sales across the 
Group, including the value of retail sales by our franchisees (to give a measure of the Group's 
turnover on a more comparable basis to a conventional retailer), increased 7.4% to  69.9m (2009: 
 65.1m). 
 
Like for like sales across the whole of the network were up 1.0% compared to the previous year. We 
are pleased that we have continued the trend of overall positive like for like sales, which compares 
well against the wider retail sector, and we believe reflects positively on the franchise structure 
which tends to reduce sales volatility and ensures each store is run by a self-motivated management 
team. 
 
As we always advise, given United Carpets' franchise structure, like for like sales are not necessarily 
the best measure of the Group's financial performance but they do provide a good steer on the 
overall trading performance. Within the like for like sales performance, the core floor coverings 
business achieved a 1.0% like for like increase on the previous year and bed like for like sales also 
increased by 1.0%.  
 
Gross margin increased from 64.0% to 66.2% reflecting the increased proportion of franchise related 
income to total revenue as corporate stores turnover, beds and trade sales accounted for a smaller 
proportion of revenue as more corporate stores were franchised. 
 
Distribution costs include staff costs at the corporate stores and were similar to the previous year 
with heavier costs at the beginning of the year offset later in the year as corporate stores were 
franchised. Administrative expenses, increased by 2.8% and included  0.4m of exceptional costs 
related to certain loss making stores (2009:  0.8m). 
 
Profit before tax and exceptional items was  1.46m (2009  1.36m). Basic earnings per share were 
0.84p (2009: 0.40p). 
 
The balance sheet continues to be robust with net funds of  2.1m at the year end (2009:  1.7m). 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 0.5p per share (2009: 0.5p), which together 
with the interim dividend of 0.25p per share (2009: Nil) paid in January makes a total ordinary 
dividend of 0.75p per share for the year (2009: 0.5p). Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 3 December 2010 to those shareholders whose names 
are on the register on 5 November 2010   2
. 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Operations review 
 
At the year end, the Group had 82 United Carpets branded stores across its core areas of operation 
in Northern and Central England, up from 80 stores at the beginning of the financial year.  With the 
exception of 12 corporate stores, the remainder were all franchises operating under the United 
Carpets' bespoke franchise model, which aims to combine the advantages of a multiple retailer with 
the entrepreneurial drive of an independent.  
 
We continued to differentiate the United Carpets offer through a series of planned advertising 
campaigns focusing on our key selling strengths namely: 
 
  Extensive quality ranges of flooring and beds 
  Affordable price points 
  Superior customer service  
 
Advertising campaigns were run throughout the year on regional television channels in Northern and 
Central England supported by radio, print and direct mail marketing. The United Carpets brand has 
very high recognition in our target markets and has established an excellent reputation for value and 
service. Our marketing objectives revolve around maintaining brand awareness and driving sales led 
by innovative product offerings and selected price discounts. 
 
Supporting our marketing strategies, our ongoing investment in training across the Group is a key 
focus seeking to continually improve the quality of our staff and management teams. To maintain 
high customer service levels, it is critical to constantly seek to improve knowledge of the product 
ranges, sales techniques and customer service levels. In the last year, in addition to our biannual 
franchisee conferences designed to refresh product knowledge and spread best practice across the 
Group, we have carried out numerous mystery shopper exercises and customer surveys to obtain 
accurate feedback on our performance and to seek ways to further improve our customer service. 
 
Franchising 
 
Having expanded the number of stores significantly in the previous financial year, the focus was to 
match new stores and a significant proportion of the existing corporate stores with new franchisees. 
We achieved this goal, introducing 24 new franchisees during the year and as a result, the number 
of corporate stores reduced from 23 to 12 during the period under review. 
 
The Group started the year with 57 franchised stores and, during the period, added 1 new 
franchised store in Peterborough. In addition, we converted 8 franchisee stores back into corporate 
stores. An additional 20 corporate stores were also franchised, giving us 70 franchised stores at the 
period end.  
 
Since the period end, we have converted 4 franchised stores into corporate stores, refranchised 1 
corporate store and opened a new franchised store in Leeds, resulting in a current total of 68 
franchised stores. There is a healthy pipeline of new stores, some of which already have franchisees 
identified.   3
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Flooring 
 
The majority of Group revenues are derived from the sale of floor coverings, predominantly carpet, 
laminate and vinyl flooring through franchised stores and the Group's own corporate stores. Trading 
across the network started modestly in the first quarter and improved strongly before being 
adversely affected by the severe weather conditions experienced in the fourth quarter. However, the 
overall result was positive with like for like sales up 1.0% over the period. 
 
Having started the year with 23 corporate stores, 1 new corporate store opened during the period in 
Halifax, 8 franchised stores were taken back into the corporate arm and a total of 20 corporate 
stores were franchised during the year leaving us with 12 corporate stores at the period end. 
 
Of the 12 corporate stores, 3 are considered to be core, to be retained to enable ongoing training 
and product development, with the Group seeking to franchise the remainder with quality 
candidates. Since the year end, we have successfully refranchised 1 corporate store and taken back 
4 franchised stores giving us a total of 15 corporate stores currently. 
 
In the first 17 weeks since the year end, like for like sales were down 2.6%, this period includes the 
World Cup, the general election and subsequent budget which together have made for an 
exceptionally tough trading period. 
 
Beds 
 
The Beds division, which accounts for a little under 10% of network sales, delivered a 1.0% increase 
in like for like sales. After such a strong result from Beds in the previous period, this was a 
satisfactory result but we had hoped to continue the momentum. While Beds are a natural extension 
of flooring sales, they are typically a larger purchase, with an average sale price approaching  300 
compared to the average flooring sale which is c.  180. With consumers once again becoming more 
cautious, the higher purchase cost of beds slowed sales in the last quarter. 
 
This has continued in the first 17 weeks of the new financial year when, against strong comparatives 
in the previous year, like for like sales were down by 25.5%. 
 
Trade sales 
 
In addition to the introduction of 7 day a week coverage to the stores, the Group has invested in 
developing its own in-house cutting operation for flooring providing improvements in efficiency and 
service to the network. During the year, a new cutting machine and sortation system was 
successfully introduced, increasing the capacity and efficiency of this important facility. 
 
People 
 
I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and commitment. Since joining the AIM 
market, the business has grown substantially with revenues more than doubling and the number of 
people who work under the United Carpets brand has also increased significantly. We hope to 
continue to expand the business and are grateful for the support of everyone involved with the 
Group.   4
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Outlook 
 
Given the uncertainty across the UK in terms of the impact of the tightened fiscal regime and wider 
global trends it is hard to predict the future. Certainly, the first 17 weeks of trading of the current year 
have continued to reflect the weaker trading patterns of the last quarter of 2009/10. We are therefore 
adopting a cautious approach to future trading although we will continue to invest in marketing and 
store expansion where we believe we can generate good returns. However, until confidence in the 
economy and the housing market returns, we believe the trading environment will continue to be 
challenging. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Chairman 
 
7 September 2010