 1 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
I am pleased to announce another good set of results for the year ended 31 March 2008. The 
Group generated revenues of  21.17m compared to  19.55m in 2007, operating from 65 stores at 
31 March 2008 (2007: 59 stores) located across Northern and Central England. During the year, 7 
new stores were opened and one store closed.  This represents steady, controlled expansion in the 
retail base of the Group and we look forward to further expansion in the coming year.   
 
Financial review 
 
Revenue, which as in previous years includes marketing and rental costs incurred by the Group and 
recharged to franchisees, increased by 8.3% to  21.17m (2007:  19.55m), with the increase in 
revenue from strong like for like growth and increased store numbers being tempered by the 
management decision to take back 5 poorer performing franchised stores so that they can be re-
franchised. Network sales across the Group, including the value of retail sales by our franchisees 
(to give a measure of the Group s turnover on a more comparable basis to a conventional retailer), 
increased 8.8% to  59.1m (2007:  54.3m). 
 
Like for like sales across the whole of the network were up 9.1% compared to the previous year. 
Given United Carpets  franchise structure, like for like sales are not the best measure of the Group s 
financial performance but they do provide a good steer on the overall trading performance. Within 
the like for like sales performance, the core floor coverings business achieved a 10.2% like for like 
increase on the previous year whilst bed like for like sales decreased by 1.8%.  
 
The reduction in gross margin from 71.0% to 68.5% reflects the reduction in the proportion of 
franchise related income to total revenue as corporate stores turnover and trade sales accounted 
for a greater proportion of revenue. 
 
Distribution costs increased by 8.9% and administration expenses (before goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items) increased by 2.8%. During the year a goodwill impairment provision of  220,000 
was made as an exceptional item in administrative expenses. 
 
Profit before tax increased by 46.8% to  1.511m (2007:  1.029m) and underlying profit before tax, 
goodwill impairment and exceptional items increased by 20.8% to  1.731m (2007:  1.433m).  
 
Earnings per share were up 62.0% to 1.15p (2007: 0.71p). 
 
Whilst the introduction of the centralised warehouse for beds and the launch of the in-house cutting 
service to the stores absorbed working capital in stock and debtors, the balance sheet continues to 
be robust with net funds of  1.3m at the year end. 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.55p per share (2007: 0.5p) which together with the 
interim dividend of 0.275p per share (2007: 0.25p) paid in January makes a total ordinary dividend 
of 0.825p per share for the year (2007: 0.75p). Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
the final dividend will be paid on 5 December 2008 to those shareholders whose names are on the 
register on 7 November 2008. 
 
 
 
 
  2 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Operations review 
 
The Group ended the financial year with 65 branded stores across Northern and Central England. 
With the exception of 18 corporate stores, the remainder were all franchises operating under United 
Carpets  bespoke franchise model, which aims to combine the advantages of a multiple retailer with 
the entrepreneurial drive of an independent. In the current environment, our focus on quality 
products and value for money has helped to insulate the Group to a degree from the general slow 
down in the retail sector. Our franchise model is also well suited to cope with the retail sector slow 
down as each franchised store is run by the owner who is naturally more motivated to drive sales 
performance. 
 
Franchising 
 
At the end of the year, we operated 47 franchised stores (2007: 48). Our strategy throughout the 
year was to steadily grow store numbers, having sourced quality locations and appropriate 
managers/franchisees. We successfully opened two new franchised stores in Northenden and Bury, 
took 5 franchised stores back into the corporate arm and re-franchised 2 stores. In the three months 
since the end of the financial year, we have taken back 5 poor performing franchised stores and 
successfully re-franchised 6 stores.  We aim to pursue a policy of steady growth in the number of 
outlets throughout 2008, and we expect to add further new stores during the current financial year. 
 
Floor coverings 
 
The majority of Group revenues are derived from the sale of floor coverings, predominantly carpet, 
laminate and vinyl flooring through franchised stores and the Group s own corporate stores. Trading 
over the year was strong with a 10.2% improvement in like for like sales across the network, which 
confirms that the Group s focus on  value for money  has insulated it to a degree from the slowdown 
in the wider retail sector. 
 
Having started the year with 11 corporate stores, United Carpets opened 5 corporate stores; 
Wetherby, Ilkeston, Sleaford, Grantham and Accrington and closed one corporate store in 
Manchester. We converted 5 franchisee stores back into corporate stores due to underperformance 
and successfully re-franchised 2 corporate stores. Although we have demonstrated a capability to 
take back underperforming franchisee stores and turn them around under the corporate arm, this 
inevitably takes time and adversely affects profits until performance has been improved.  
 
Of the 18 corporate stores at the year end, five are considered to be core corporate stores to be 
retained to enable ongoing training and product development. The process of re-franchising non- 
core corporate stores is ongoing and the Group has a good pipeline of franchisees seeking to 
become part of the United Carpets franchise model. Since the year end, we have successfully 
opened three new corporate stores, in Wigan, Manchester (Failsworth) and Kidderminster; and 
taken back 5 poor performing franchised stores and successfully re-franchised 6 stores. 
 
We continue to seek increased returns from existing stores through the spread of best practice 
throughout the Group. This is implemented through training courses for our brand managers, 
franchisees and all store staff and biannual franchisee conferences.  
 
The Group continues to carry out television advertising in targeted areas where it has sufficient 
critical mass as demonstrated by our recent increased presence in the North West which has 
improved the cost effectiveness of television advertising in the Granada region.  
  3 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
At the same time we continue to use radio, print and direct advertising strategies to increase brand 
awareness and drive sales across the Group. 
 
In the first 16 weeks since the year end, like for like sales are up 7.9% demonstrating that the solid 
trading performance is continuing despite tough comparisons in the previous year. 
 
Beds 
 
Beds are sold through the majority of the store network with franchisees earning a commission on 
sales. This part of the business has not performed to its full potential and like for like sales during 
the year showed a 1.8% decrease. However, performance in this department is mixed across the 
network with some stores generating good sales growth and by spreading best practice through a 
continuous training programme, increased revenues can be generated. In the 16 weeks since 31 
March 2008, beds has seen a 7.4% improvement in like for like sales albeit against weak 
comparatives. 
 
Trade sales 
 
The Group supplies carpets and laminate flooring from a central depot to individual franchisees. 
During the year the Group successfully launched an in-house cutting service which should enable 
some margin enhancement whilst ensuring very competitive prices as the service is extended to 
more ranges. 
 
People 
 
The Group has performed well in an increasingly stressed economic and market environment and 
the Board would like to thank all of its people across the network for their hard work and dedication 
which has enabled United Carpets to deliver a creditable trading performance during challenging 
times. We will continue to invest in the training and development of all of our people and look 
forward to their support in growing the Group in 2008. 
 
Outlook 
 
Since the year end, trading has been positive with total like for like sales for the 16 weeks to 17 July 
2008 up by 7.8%. We will continue to seek quality franchisees for non-core corporate stores and to 
open new outlets in suitable areas. A key focus during 2008 will be to continue to deliver quality 
products at competitive prices, whilst steadily expanding store numbers to ensure continued growth 
in these difficult market conditions.  There is no doubt the outlook for retailers across the market is 
challenging and United Carpets will not be immune to the broader economic conditions particularly 
through raw material price increases and the strength of the euro.  However, our franchise model 
means that the majority of our stores are run individually by the  owner  ensuring higher staff 
motivation levels across the Group and our principles of steady, controlled growth supported by 
significant cash reserves mean that the Group is well placed to face the increasingly difficult trading 
environment ahead. 
 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Chairman 
 
22 September 2008 
 
 
 
 
 