 United Utilities Group PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
02
21165.04      31/05/12        Proof
w e are confident that our strategy and renewed focus on operational 
performance will enable united utilities to create value and 
deliver our commitments to our customers, shareholders and the 
environment.
Strategy
Following the completion of our non-regulated disposal programme, 
we set out our vision of becoming a leading North West service 
provider and one of the best UK water and wastewater companies. 
We said that our enhanced focus on the regulated business will enable 
us to deliver further customer service and operational efficiency 
improvements. We aim to outperform the regulatory contract and 
deliver long-term shareholder value by providing the best service to 
customers, at the lowest sustainable cost and in a responsible manner.
During the last 12 months we have continued on our journey towards 
achieving our vision and we are pleased to report a good set of results 
in what is a tough economic climate. We have delivered improved 
customer satisfaction in our service and we remain on course to meet 
our regulatory outperformance targets, with significant financing 
outperformance already secured. 
We have continued to make high levels of capital investment in our 
water and wastewater assets providing further benefits for our 
customers, shareholders and the environment.
Dividend
In line with our dividend policy, the board is proposing a final dividend 
for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 21.34 pence per ordinary share, 
an increase of 6.7 per cent compared with the final dividend relating 
to 2010/11. Together with the interim dividend of 10.67 pence, the 
total dividend relating to the year is 32.01 pence per ordinary share. 
The final dividend  is expected to be paid to shareholders on 3 August 
2012. We also confirm our intent to increase the dividend in line 
with our policy of targeting real growth of RPI+2 per cent per annum 
through to at least 2015. 
Operational performance
Commensurate with our focus on customer service and operational 
performance we have continued to implement a wide range of 
business improvement initiatives. Our revised customer handling 
arrangements have led to a marked improvement in customer 
satisfaction, resulting in significant progress on Ofwat's service 
incentive mechanism. We have built on our progress last year, reducing 
customer complaints by over a quarter in the last 12 months and 
achieving our lowest ever level of referrals to the Consumer Council 
for Water.  We are pleased with the recent progress we have made and 
believe there is plenty of opportunity to deliver further improvements.
We have in place key performance indicators (KPIs) to provide 
visibility of our operational performance in the areas of best service 
to customers, lowest sustainable cost and responsible manner. These 
measures are used across the company to focus our people on targets 
for improvement and to demonstrate the progress being made.
Delivering our regulatory contract
We have continued to make good progress throughout the first 
two years of this regulatory period and investment in our assets 
has remained at high levels, helping the business meet strict 
environmental standards and deliver an improved service for our 
customers. Capital expenditure in our water and wastewater business 
amounted to  680 million during the year, consistent with our planned 
investment programme over the 2010-15 period. 
Customers
During 2011/12 our household customers have benefited from an 
average real reduction in their water bills of 0.2 per cent, following on 
from a 4.3 per cent real decrease in 2010/11. Despite this reduction 
in average customer bills, we have continued to invest heavily in our 
assets in order to ensure that we can continue to provide our customers 
with high quality drinking water to meet all their daily needs and 
environmentally responsible wastewater collection and treatment. 
Our water and wastewater service currently costs households just 
over  1 per day on average. We believe this continues to represent 
excellent value for money for our customers. We recognise that we 
need to maintain the affordability of customer bills, in what continues 
to be a tough economic environment, and we continue to fund our 
Charitable Trust, providing  5 million per year to help customers who 
are struggling to pay their water bills.
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's statement
Steve Mogford
Chief Executive Officer
Dr John McAdam
Chairman unitedutilities.com
03
Business Review
21165.04       31/05/12        Proof
United Utilities Group PLC
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's statement
Regulatory developments
The government published a Water White Paper  Water for Life' in 
December 2011 which reaffirmed the success of the privatisation of 
the water industry, with companies having invested over  90 billion to 
maintain and improve assets, customer service and the environment. 
The paper highlights that the water industry needs to evolve in order 
to meet the challenges arising from factors such as climate change 
and a growing population to help ensure that high quality water is 
supplied reliably while remaining affordable.
We are pleased that the government recognised the need for 
evolutionary, rather than revolutionary, changes to the successful 
existing water model. We agree that a step-by-step approach to 
increasing competition for non-domestic customers, as outlined in 
the paper, is sensible provided sufficient time and effort goes into its 
preparation in what will represent a significant change for the industry.
We are in agreement with many of the long-term aims set out in 
the Water White Paper such as tackling over abstraction, water 
pollution, affordability and water efficiency as well as protecting 
water resources and the natural environment. We have been closely 
engaged in the dialogue with the government and its regulators on 
these matters and will continue to take an active part in shaping the 
response the sector can make to address the issues raised in the 
Water White Paper.
Responsible business
As a board we are responsible to our shareholders, customers and 
other stakeholders for the performance and long-term success of our 
company. The way in which we operate, we believe, already reflects the 
highest standards of corporate governance. We continue to monitor 
closely new developments and requirements in this area and have 
updated our statement of responsible business practice, called our 
Business Principles, this year to ensure these standards underpin our 
business strategy.
We continue to listen to the views of all our stakeholders and 
endeavour to develop, manage and operate in an environmentally 
sustainable, economically beneficial and socially responsible manner. 
In recognition of the company's continued focus on responsible 
business, we retained our  World Class' rating, as measured by the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index.  We also retained our  Platinum Plus' 
ranking in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility 
Index and are proud that we are one of only six FTSE 100 companies 
to hold both.
The communities in which we operate are of great importance to our 
business and we have continued our investment in these communities 
of the North West both financially and in terms of employee time 
through volunteering. 
Our employees
The people in United Utilities are key to the delivery of the highest 
levels of service to our customers and we would like again to thank 
them for their dedication and continued hard work during the year. We 
believe that a committed, capable and motivated workforce is central 
to delivering our vision and we remain fully focused on maintaining 
high levels of employee development and engagement.
The safety and well-being of our employees is paramount and we 
believe that everybody in United Utilities, collectively and individually, 
has a part to play in maintaining a safe working environment. Although 
we have seen a reduction in employee accident rates in 2011/12, there 
is more to do and we will continue to give this area significant focus.
On behalf of the board, we say thank you and farewell to David Jones, 
who will stand down at this year's annual general meeting after over 
seven years as a non-executive director. We wish David all the best for 
the future.
We are pleased to welcome Sara Weller to the board as a non-
executive director following her appointment in March. Her 
understanding of customer facing businesses, together with her 
knowledge of operating within a regulated environment, will be major 
assets to the board. On David's departure, Sara will take over his 
position as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Outlook
We believe that our sharp focus on customer service and operational 
efficiency is delivering results. The action plans being implemented 
are delivering efficiencies and we remain on track to meet our 
regulatory targets, with substantial financing outperformance already 
secured. The board is encouraged with our continuing progress over 
the first two years of the 2010-15 regulatory period and we are 
confident we can continue to build on this progress throughout the 
remainder of the period. Our capital structure remains robust and we 
have a sustainable dividend policy that targets real growth through to 
at least 2015. In the area of regulatory and political developments, we 
will continue to work with politicians, regulators and all key parties to 
represent the best interests of our stakeholders.
Dr John mcadam
Chairman
 
steve mogford
Chief Executive Officer