  
4 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive's review 
During 2012, Valiant delivered its first operated development and further strengthened its 
exploration portfolios in the UK and Norway, while generating strong operating cash flows. It has 
been a busy year, which we believe should be looked at in the context of developing a base of 
valuable opportunities and assets in the medium term. 
We announced a Strategic Review in September, which provided a framework for stepping back and 
considering the options for Valiant going forward. This has ultimately led to a recommended merger 
with Ithaca Energy, which will result in an enlarged group with better access to capital and 
diversification of risks across a broader portfolio and a further range of options. We expect this 
transaction to complete in the next few weeks through a court approved scheme of arrangement. 
We recognise this has been a challenging time for our staff and partners, and would like to thank 
them for their continued support through this process. 
2012 results 
In October, Valiant safely delivered its first operated development in Causeway. Valiant is now a 
fully-fledged operator of production. The amount and complexity of work required to achieve this 
status should not be underestimated. This work has included business and environmental processes, 
project planning and delivery, legal, contractual and regulatory support and financing. 
The Causeway field is now producing oil and generating cash for the Group, and will be joined by its 
smaller sister field, Fionn, during 2013. Whilst initial flow rates have been below expectations, 
results to date have confirmed the Company's view of Reserves in the field. Work on completing the 
water injector and artificial lift project scope is already underway in the first quarter of 2013, and 
together with Fionn will ultimately deliver higher production rates. 
The ultimate cost of the Causeway and Fionn development is forecast to be substantially in excess of 
the original budget; whilst the overall scope has remained unchanged, the offshore drilling and 
installation programmes have seen cost increases for a variety of reasons including poor weather 
and supply chain driven schedule changes. 
In the West Don and Don Southwest fields (the Don Fields), successful infill drilling has added to near 
term production volumes, and further infill wells have been approved for 2013 drilling. This has 
enabled an increase in Don Fields Reserves in excess of the amount produced in 2012. Additional 
sites have been identified for potential 2014 drilling. 
Overall production from the Don Fields in 2012 was in line with the Group's expectations, however, 
overall Group production fell short of published guidance as a consequence of Causeway's later start 
up and lower initial flow rates than originally planned. Production in December grew to 11,500 bopd 
recognising the benefit of the Dons investments and Causeway having come on stream; this exit rate 
provides the foundation for stronger production in 2013 than the 2012 average outturn. 
Valiant's exploration teams won eight new licences in three licencing rounds in Norway, the UK and 
Iceland, building upon last year's geographical expansion beyond the UK continental shelf. This new 
acreage has already attracted farm-in interest from a number of larger and respected companies in 
our industry. 
A rig was secured for the Handcross prospect in a tight market, and this high impact exploration well 
is scheduled as part of the 2013 exploration programme.   
5 
 
Earlier in the year, the Company strengthened its Norwegian portfolio by acquiring licence interests 
from Rocksource, including the large Norvarg gas discovery in the Barents Sea which will be 
appraised in 2013. 
Whilst substantial progress has been made in developing the Company's future exploration 
portfolio, the 2012 drilling programme did not deliver the success we had targeted. In April, the 
Company made a small oil discovery at Orchid. This is not currently commercial as a stand-alone 
development, but Valiant has interests in licences nearby with other discoveries and exploration 
prospects, and there is potential for a clustered development in this area. 
In April, an appraisal well in the Tybalt field, a 2010 Valiant discovery in the Northern North Sea, 
failed to prove up commercial volumes. The Group has therefore recognised a substantial write 
down of exploration costs, which include the historical costs of the previous Tybalt well and side 
track as well as the costs of other 2012 drilling, and the costs associated with relinquishment of 
other licences in the normal course of portfolio management. 
Valiant's strategic platform 
Valiant has become a full cycle E&P company, with exploration, development and production (both 
operated and non-operated), is qualified as an operator in all of our geographies, and has an 
increasingly diversified portfolio in the UK, Norway, Faroe Islands and more recently Iceland. 
The Group's financial position is supported by continued strong operating cash flows and the ability 
to borrow against the future cash flows from producing assets. This has given us the opportunity to 
invest in the further development of the portfolio. We have monitored our funding capacity and 
optimised the timing and nature of investments to grow the Company in a balanced way and achieve 
the potential from our assets. 
The Company's exploration processes have been rebuilt over the last two years, and licensing 
applications are now built around fairway analyses in high graded regions and subjected to robust 
peer review, representing a transition from the more opportunistic approach in the past. There is a 
time lag before the impact of such changes works its way through the pipeline to exploration drilling 
activity, and we anticipate seeing the first results of this new approach over the next couple of years. 
Taken together, this has become an attractive and exciting platform around which to build a 
successful business, whether independently or as part of a larger group. 
2013 agenda 
2013 will combine the delivery of a full operational programme with further organisational and 
process changes to reflect the continued development of the portfolio. 
Operationally, the Company will complete the Causeway and Fionn development projects, deliver a 
further programme of Dons infill drilling, and manage a high impact exploration and appraisal drilling 
programme, including the Handcross, Norvarg and Storbarden wells. 
Health, safety and the environment will remain high on the agenda, reflecting our commitment to 
continuous improvement in this area across the full range of our activities. 2013's plans respond to 
our new status as an operator of production and, in particular, fully acknowledge the environmental 
responsibilities that accompany our offshore drilling programme. 
The Group will also focus on active optimisation of its exploration portfolio, to ensure that risk 
capital is reduced, while retaining exposure to exploration upside across a diversified drilling 
programme. These changes have already produced results, with the recent farm down of Isabella.   
6 
 
Board, staff & corporate governance 
With a ramp-up in activity in both the UK associated with Causeway operations and Norway with 
additional licences, full time staff levels are now at 59 with an additional 15 contractor staff. During 
the year, Valiant announced two non-executive appointments to the Board to bring further depth of 
knowledge and experience to the development and exploration functions in the business. 
Steve Horton has 36 years' experience working in the energy industry around the world, including 27 
years with BP plc where he held several executive roles including worldwide Director of Drilling. He 
has extensive experience within the North Sea E&P sector, having co-founded Silverstone Energy 
Limited, which grew into a full cycle operated business within four years of start up. He is currently a 
non-executive director of AIM listed Leni Gas and Oil plc and designated non-executive director of 
Seamwell International Limited as well as technical adviser to Cowley Mining plc. 
Philip Vingoe has worked in the oil and gas industry for nearly 40 years across a wide range of 
technical and executive roles. A qualified geophysicist, he worked at BP for nearly 20 years before 
moving to Novus Petroleum, Sasol Petroleum and co-founding Pan-Petroleum which then merged 
with Norse Energy do Brasil to become Panoro Energy. He is currently non-executive chairman of 
Panoro Energy and on the Board of Petro Matad. He was also a non-executive director of Pan-Ocean 
Energy Corporation Ltd before it was sold to Addax in 2006. 
In November 2012, Peter Buchanan temporarily stepped aside as Chief Executive in order to explore 
options for acquiring the Company and Michael Bonte-Friedheim agreed to take the role of Acting 
Chief Executive. 
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the directors 
intend, so far as it is practicable, to take the appropriate steps to comply with the 2010 UK 
Corporate Governance Code as the Group continues to grow and mature. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors, we would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees, 
staff and partners for their hard work and dedication throughout 2012. 
 
 
 
Kevin Lyon Michael Bonte-Friedheim 
Chairman Acting Chief Executive 
 
  