 VELOSI     Annual Report 2008 4
chairman's
statement
  Following a strong performance in 2007, Velosi continued this trend 
in 2008 delivering a record set of financial results with strong cash 
generation.  The Group has made substantial operational progress, 
venturing into new geographic locations, increasing market share in 
existing markets, and expanding its service offerings. I am therefore 
very pleased to present the performance of the Group for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2008. 
INTRODUCTION
2008 was a very successful year for the Group. The substantial 
increase in revenue and profit was driven by continued high levels 
of investment in infrastructure by the world's major oil and gas 
companies. New infrastructure projects and services supplied 
for on-going projects continue to take centre stage in the Group's 
activities.
Due to the industry's focus on safety and protection of the 
environment, the oil and gas sector is still investing heavily in 
ensuring that its plant, equipment, and structures are safeguarded 
to the highest standards.  This creates an unremitting demand for 
Velosi's services, acting as a one-stop centre on a global basis for 
asset integrity and health, safety, and environment (HSE) services.
Despite the significant fall in oil prices precipitated by the global 
slow down in demand, the outlook for the Group remains positive as 
it continues to win new long-term contracts both in existing markets 
and more importantly in new markets such as Angola, Russia,  VELOSI     Annual Report 2008 5
Brunei, and Saudi Arabia. Our confidence in the future 
performance of the Group is derived from the following 
factors: 
  Good demand driven by new projects and the need to 
maintain existing projects with concerns over safety and 
the environment making the services Velosi provides a 
key investment for all major oil and gas companies;
  Excellent forward visibility on future revenue streams 
with 38% of long-term contracts having more than 3 
years to run; 
  Major oil and gas companies increasingly using Velosi 
as a one-stop centre on a global basis;
  Growth in market share expected to offset any future 
slowdown in oil and gas expenditure;
  Increasing focus on long-term contract wins in new 
markets and parts of North Africa and South America 
over next 12 -24 months;
  Strong financial base with excellent cash generation 
and approximately US$18 million of net cash at the 
year end (2007: Approximately US$4 million) to support 
commercial objectives; and
  Balanced approach to future investment taking account 
of the current environment and allocating resources to 
areas only where the Company can achieve significant 
returns.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
These record results are a direct reflection of the success 
of Velosi's strategy.  For the financial year under review, the 
Group achieved a 55.6% increase in revenue to US$182.1 
million (2007: US$117.0 million). Underlying organic growth 
in revenues was 26%, and the Group won 14 new contracts 
of which 6 were in new markets.  The Group also registered 
an increase in profit before tax of 30.1% to US$14.9 million 
(2007: US$11.4 million).  Operating profit before interest 
and tax increased by 28.9% to US$14.4 million (2007: 
US$11.2 million), and profit after tax and minority interests 
increased by 24.8% to US$9.3 million (2007: US$7.5 
million). Cash flow from operations increased substantially 
to US$13.2 million from US$0.7 million in 2007. Net cash 
flow from operating activities was US$9.9 million (2007: 
Outflow of US$0.7 million).
During the year, the Group acquired a 60% interest in PSC 
Italy, an Italian-based company providing inspection and 
expediting services for a total consideration of  1.8 million 
(approximately US$2.54 million). The acquisition has been 
immediately earnings enhancing.
Basic earnings per share after minority interests increased 
by 11.9% to 21.7 cents compared to 19.4 cents in the 
previous year, while fully diluted earnings per share after 
minority interests based on the weighted average issued 
share capital as at 31 December 2008 was 19.6 cents 
compared to 18.2 cents in the previous year.
At 31 December 2008 the Group had net cash reserves of 
US$17.8 million, built through a combination of increased 
operating profits, a reduction in capital spending over 2007 
levels, and the raising of  4.42 million through a placing 
of new shares in March 2008. This places the Group in a 
strong position both to fund its on-going activities and to be 
responsive to opportunities as they arise in the market.
DIVIDEND
Backed by positive results, the Board is pleased to propose 
a final dividend of US$0.01 per share (2007: US$0.01).  The 
Board intends to continue paying dividends in the future 
while maintaining a suitable level of dividend cover and 
retaining the majority of earnings to fund the development 
of the Group's business.  Subject to shareholders' approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 
31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register on 3 July 2009.
chairman's statement VELOSI     Annual Report 2008 6
STRATEGY
2008 was another year of significant expansion.  Since our 
flotation in 2006, the Company has increased its revenue 
base by almost four times, and now employs approximately 
2,500 people. Our strategy has been to expand Velosi so 
that the skills it was providing so successfully in regional 
pockets could be deployed on a global basis while at the 
same time increasing the range of services we provide. 
There is no doubt we have achieved a large part of our 
objectives as we are now operating on a global basis and 
are winning  one-stop centre' contracts to provide services 
for individual companies in a number of markets.
To accommodate the increased size of the Group, Velosi 
has put in place a new management structure by creating 
four new regional manager roles, reporting directly to 
the Chief Executive Officer, who respectively control the 
Group's principal geographic areas of activity, i.e. Africa, 
Australasia, Europe, and the Middle East.
Looking ahead, our strategic focus is to continue to enter 
new geographic markets, growing market share in existing 
markets, and expanding the Group's service offerings 
organically, via joint ventures, and through acquisitions. 
The Group's acquisition of a 60% stake in PSC Italy in 2008 
has resulted in an agreement with Saipem, a subsidiary of 
Italian oil and gas company ENI, to provide inspection and 
expediting services in China, India, Korea, Europe, and 
America. The acquisition of PSC Italy has been one of the 
Group's most successful acquisitions to date.
Elsewhere Velosi has won important contracts across 
the world, particularly in the Middle East and Africa. In 
Qatar, Oman, and Saudi Arabia, the Group was awarded 
contracts in those regions by RasGas, Petroleum 
Development Oman (PDO), and Saudi Aramco respectively. 
In Angola, the Group won its largest contract to date with 
Chevron. 
In line with our growth plans and the Company's goal of 
becoming a leading Integrated Inspection, Maintenance, 
and Engineering Support Provider, our 65% owned 
subsidiary, K2 Specialist Services Pte Ltd (K2) continues to 
develop its service portfolio and in August 2008 launched 
its Hotwork Enclosure System.  The system allows for oil 
and gas operators to conduct hotwork operations in live 
chairman's statement VELOSI     Annual Report 2008 7
costs and pressures on labour cost inflation. Velosi's 
services remain critical for the establishment of new, and 
the maintenance of on-going, infrastructure projects. 
However, the Group is positioning itself to assist its clients 
by developing innovative cost effective solutions and 
working alongside them to achieve their objectives of 
reducing costs. In addition, our ability to increase market 
share and over the longer term diversify our services will 
help to counter any further reduction in expenditure. 
The Group is closely focused on making the business 
operate on a streamlined cost base and has adopted a 
more conservative approach to expansion, as a result of 
the current economic environment, whilst ensuring that it 
does not forego commercial opportunities. The Board will 
continue to focus on cash generation, and with US$18 
million in net cash on the balance sheet and gearing of 1%, 
the Group has a strong financial platform from which to 
grow the business in 2009 and over the longer term.
Trading for the first three months of the current financial 
year has been in line with our expectations. A high level of 
the revenues forecast for the remainder of 2009 are already 
secured against existing contracts thereby giving the 
Board confidence that the Group will deliver another good 
performance in 2009.
John Hogan  
Chairman
30 April 2009
chairman's statement
process areas without the requirement of shutting down 
the process plant. This provides the client with a safe and 
extremely cost effective solution for on-going maintenance 
works without costly shut downs. K2 utilised the Hotwork 
Enclosure System during a maintenance campaign for 
Shell Bukom in Singapore, and on an offshore production 
facility in Vietnam.
APPRECIATION
On behalf of the Board, I wish to extend my thanks to all our 
employees worldwide for their commitment, hard work, and 
perseverance throughout the year.
OUTLOOK
Velosi's success in securing new contracts and 100% 
retention of existing contracts reflects the confidence our 
clients have in our services and capabilities on a global 
basis.  Demand has been driven by new projects and 
the need to maintain existing projects with concerns over 
safety and the environment, making the services Velosi 
provides a  must-have' investment for the major oil and gas 
companies. However, the Group is not growing complacent 
and is keenly focused on continuing to grow the business 
in the context of a changing and more challenging market 
environment. 
The Group is investing in new ways to make its services 
more cost effective and to keep up with clients' 
technological advancements. This is particularly important 
with world oil and gas prices set to remain weak in 2009 
and possibly into 2010, creating a natural desire to reduce 