 VELOSI
04
Annual Report 2009
chairman's 
statement
To report a 13.0% increase in 
profitability, during a year when 
market conditions have been 
extremely challenging, is a very 
creditable performance. Reported 
revenue for the Group was stable in 
2009 when compared to last year. 
However, excluding Nigeria which 
had to operate under exceptional 
circumstances, revenues actually 
increased by approximately 6.8%. 
This was achieved in a year in which 
oil prices dropped to around US$40 
per barrel, resulting in many oil 
and gas companies reducing their 
expenditures.
Looking ahead, we are seeing signs of 
recovery in activity alongside a higher 
and more stable oil price, with specific 
regions and countries experiencing an 
increase in investment in oil and gas 
infrastructure projects, although the 
overall mood in the industry remains 
cautious. VELOSI has a strong order 
book which provides good visibility 
on future income and while we do 
not anticipate significantly improved 
market conditions, we expect to 
deliver a positive performance in 
2010.  VELOSI
05
Annual Report 2009
Engineering For A Safer World
Introduction
I am pleased to report that VELOSI has achieved another 
good trading performance. The Group increased profits 
before tax by 13.0% to US$16.8 million, continued to 
expand through new office openings and secured a wide 
range of new contracts. This was a particularly creditable 
performance given the slowdown in investment by the oil 
and gas majors during 2009.  While across the market 
overall expenditure on asset integrity services dipped, our 
revenue levels remained constant helped by our investment 
in new projects in specific  hot spots' around the globe 
and by the industry's need to maintain existing oil and gas 
projects. Excluding income from Nigeria, where exceptional 
circumstances reduced our operating ability, revenues 
actually increased by approximately 6.8%.
Over the last 18 months, in anticipation of a more 
challenging market environment, we have focused on 
ensuring the Company operates at maximum efficiency 
and has sufficient cash reserves to comfortably support the 
business. As a result of actions taken, our operating margin 
increased to 8.1% (2008: 7.9%), being a key driver behind 
the increase in Group profitability, and net cash reserves at 
the year end were US$19.7 million, placing the Company in 
a strong financial position.
With a presence in 36 countries, VELOSI offers a global 
service to the oil and gas majors, providing an extensive 
range of Testing, Inspection, and Certification services. Our 
current order book provides visibility for approximately 60% 
of 2010 consensus forecast revenues, which is a strong 
position to be in at this stage of the year. 
Financial Performance
VELOSI's global reach ensured the Company was able 
to offset the challenging market conditions and generate 
revenues of US$183.6 million (2008: US$182.1 million). 
Higher margin contracts and cost saving initiatives enabled 
the Company to improve profit margins and deliver a 13.0% 
increase in profits before tax to US$16.8 million (2008: 
US$14.9 million). This was an excellent result in a difficult 
market.
Basic earnings per share after non-controlling interests 
increased by 5.1% to 22.8 cents, compared to 21.7 cents in 
the previous year, while fully diluted earnings per share after 
non-controlling interests based on the weighted average 
issued share capital as at 31 December 2009 was 22.3 cents, 
compared to 19.6 cents in the previous year.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had net cash reserves 
of US$19.7 million inclusive of cash placed as margin for 
bank guarantees, currently classified as other debtors 
(2008: US$17.6 million). Conserving the Group's balance 
sheet strength is a key part of our strategy as it provides the 
flexibility to comfortably fund the Group's trading activities 
and take advantage of any opportunities that may result from 
the more challenging market environment.
Dividend
The Board has decided to adopt a more progressive 
dividend policy as a result of the continued improvement in 
the trading performance and cash generation of the Group 
since its IPO in 2006.  The Board is therefore recommending 
a final dividend of 1.5 cents per share (2008: 1.0 cent per 
share), an increase of 50% over the prior year.  Subject to 
shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting, the 
dividend will be paid on 30 July 2010 to shareholders on the 
register on 2 July 2010.
chairman's statement VELOSI
06
Annual Report 2009
Strategy 
VELOSI currently operates in 36 countries, up from 20 
countries in 2006 when the Company was admitted to AIM. 
Revenue has also increased substantially in that period from 
US$70.2 million in 2006 to US$183.6 million in 2009. We have 
now entered a more challenging market environment and we 
have amended our strategy to reflect this, whilst not losing 
sight of our core objective which is to be the leading provider 
of Testing, Inspection, and Certification services to major 
national and multinational oil and gas companies.
In 2008, we restructured the business to accommodate the 
increased size of the Group. A new management structure 
was introduced creating regional manager roles, reporting 
directly to the Chief Executive Officer, who respectively 
control the Group's principal geographic areas of activity 
being: Africa, Australasia, Europe, the Middle East, and 
America. This had a positive impact in 2009, enhancing our 
ability to deliver  one-stop shop' solutions to our international 
clients, often under framework agreements. An example 
would be Velosi (B) Sdn Bhd in Brunei, where together with 
our joint venture partner, we are contracted to perform QC 
Surveillance, Specialised Non Destructive Testing (NDT ), 
Asset Integrity, Corrosion Monitoring and Maintenance 
Inspection. 
During 2009, we continued to expand our global presence, 
opening new offices in Papua New Guinea, Pakistan, Brazil, 
chairman's statement
Thailand, and China. Typically it takes between 12 to 24 
months for new offices to make a positive contribution. Our 
strategy for opening new offices is a combination of ensuring 
that we have a good geographic coverage of the key 
areas together with accelerating office openings in current 
 hot spots' or areas of growth. An example of this is the 
recent opening of our Kazakhstan office in response to the 
substantial increase in oil and gas investment in Kazakhstan 
during 2009. 
During 2009, VELOSI also won a number of important 
contracts. Of particular note Velosi Europe Limited (Velosi 
Europe ) won a significant five-year contract with Eskom, 
the South African state-owned electricity provider, and Velosi 
America LLC (Velosi America )  won a Global Manpower 
Services contract with multinational oil and gas company, 
giving VELOSI preferred supplier status, along with six others. 
We will continue to enter new geographic markets, growing 
market share in existing markets, and expanding the Group's 
service offerings.  We are at the same time mindful that 
the current environment may provide  value' opportunities 
with the potential to generate above average returns, and 
the Company's strong financial position should enable it to 
consider such opportunities. In line with this strategy, the 
Company was pleased to announce on 9 February 2010 that 
it had acquired from Velosi (M) Sdn Bhd (Velosi Malaysia ) 
the VELOSI trading name in Malaysia.  VELOSI
07
Annual Report 2009
Engineering For A Safer World
chairman's statement
appreciation
On behalf of the Board, I wish to extend my thanks to all our 
employees worldwide for their commitment, hard work and 
perseverance throughout 2009, which enabled us to achieve 
these creditable results.
Outlook
VELOSI has demonstrated its ability to continue to grow the 
business despite facing challenging conditions. We believe 
this reflects well on the strength of the Company's reputation 
for excellence in its fields of expertise and the foundations it 
has carefully built to manage a global business. 
The market environment remains challenging, with our clients 
seeking to control expenditure on new projects and trimming 
costs on existing projects. Nonetheless, there are several  hot 
spots' of activity in Brazil, Australia, Kazakhstan, and West 
Africa where investment in projects remains high and where 
we are well positioned to take advantage of this activity.
The Company's strong order book currently accounts for 
approximately 60% of 2010 consensus forecast revenues, 
representing excellent forward visibility. We have net cash 
reserves of US$19.7 million, ensuring we are in a strong 
financial position to fund operating activities, and if a suitable 
opportunity arises, to fund acquisitions. We will continue to 
focus on streamlining our operations to ensure we maximise 
returns to shareholders, whilst also continuing our policy of 
controlled investment in the Group's global infrastructure.
Trading in the first three months of 2010 is in line with 
management expectations and we therefore look forward to 
delivering a positive outcome for the current year.
John Hogan 
Chairman
26 April 2010