 Chairman's Report 
2 
Since flotation in December 2006, the Group has established itself as a major player in the United 
Kingdom automotive retail sector.  The Group is the 9
th
 largest motor retailer by turnover and 
operates 56 franchised and 4 non-franchised sales operations. 
The Board has maintained a consistent strategy since flotation which remains highly relevant for 
today.  This strategy is to grow a scaled dealership Group driving performance improvements 
through the implementation of consistent business processes and systems.  The recruitment, 
development and retention of high performing motor retail professionals is of paramount 
importance and the Board has developed its business model to ensure the culture of the Group is 
entrepreneurial and consistent with the encouragement of top performers.  The Group's multi-
channel business strategy includes the development of internet and fleet channels as well as 
ensuring strong financial controls are in place to control costs and maximise cash generation.  
This has led to the Group delivering profits, growing market share and generating strong 
operating cashflows throughout the recessionary period. 
Our objective has been to enhance the experiences of our customers and, in turn, secure 
significant gains in vehicle sales market share in our local territories.  This increasing local vehicle 
parc coupled with high levels of customer retention then drives higher after-sales activity levels.  
This virtuous circle of growth allowed the Group to deliver significant improvements in profitability.  
The Board believes operational gearing benefits will further accelerate profitability as the United 
Kingdom economy recovers over the next few years.  Crucially, new car volumes are set to rise 
over this period.  Over two million new cars will need to be sold per annum to maintain the current 
size of the total UK vehicle parc.  Following a contraction in the sector these higher levels of new 
car sales will be sold by a smaller number of dealerships than pre-recession. 
The Group has delivered against its stated strategy in 2009/10 through successfully increasing 
the number of sales outlets operated from 44 to 60 since 1 March 2009.  A significant number of 
the businesses acquired in the year have the potential for performance improvements over a 
three to four year period to deliver higher margins and returns.  These turnarounds are a key 
element of the Group's strategy to deliver shareholder value and to generate future earnings 
growth.  In the year ended 28 February 2010 acquisitions generated a profit of  0.1m, despite the 
peak trading month of March being excluded from the results given the timing of the acquisitions 
undertaken. 
The Group's robust Balance Sheet position with net cash of  23.5m at 28 February 2010 enables 
further expansion of the Group to be undertaken from existing resources.  The Board is 
committed to continuing to build a sustainable, scalable business to deliver further shareholder 
value. 
Financial Commentary 
Revenue in the year increased to  818.9m (2009 :  760.8m) reflecting the impact of acquisitions 
made during the period.  Like-for-like revenue decreased by  5.5m in the year reflecting the lower 
average value of used vehicle sales following the rapid decline in values in 2008 and reduced 
sales in the fleet sector.  These impacts are partially offset by stronger sales in the new retail 
market in the second half of the year.  The mix of sales from the dealerships acquired during the 
year had a significantly lower proportion of low margin fleet and commercial business, resulting in 
stronger margins for the enlarged business.   
Adjusted EBITDA increased to  10.5m, compared to  7.9m in the year ended 28 February 2009.  
Enhanced market conditions driven firstly, by the introduction of the Government's scrappage 
scheme in May 2009 to stimulate new car sales and secondly, by a significant rebound in used 
car values, positively enhancing used car margins, aided the Group's profitability.  In addition, the 
Group benefitted from cost savings made in late 2008 and reduced interest costs due to lower 
stock levels.  EBITDA and profit before tax were  9.0m (2009 :  4.6m) and  4.6m (2009 : 
 0.07m) respectively.  Exceptional costs of  1.9m were incurred in the period reflecting losses on 
property disposals and the over-hedged position of the Group's interest rate swaps which have 
been restructured since the year-end.  Chairman's Report (continued) 
3 
Financial Commentary (continued) 
The Group has continued to focus on working capital management in the period and generated 
 15.8m of operating cashflow.  Working capital was reduced by  5.4m in the period despite 
investing  3.1m in working capital in new dealerships post acquisition.  Strong cash generation 
and the successful  30m placing, undertaken to fund acquisition growth in June 2009, has 
resulted in the Group having a net cash position of  23.5m at 28 February 2010 despite 
significant investment in new businesses in the period.  The Board intends to continue to fund the 
acquisition of additional motor retail dealerships from these resources and to utilise the debt 
capacity of the Group. 
Current Trading 
March is the most important month for the profitability of UK motor retail as a consequence of the 
plate change and its impact on new car demand.  UK new car registrations to private buyers were 
stronger year on year with volumes up 33.5%.  This reflected a contribution of the continued 
success of the scrappage scheme on registrations and a public appetite for the 10  registration 
plate boosting demand.  The Group's like-for-like volumes rose 16.1% reflecting its underweight 
representation in manufacturers who have dominated the scrappage market through sales of 
lower priced entry models.  Substantial bonus income from manufacturers was earned on hitting 
manufacturer targets at high levels and this led to robust new car margins on retail sales. 
Fleet demand for cars has been higher than the previous year as fleets seek to replace older 
cars, which would have been disposed of earlier in a more normal market environment.   
Commercial vehicle demand for new vehicles in the UK remained significantly lower in March 
than in the pre-recessionary period.  However, the Board is pleased to report that the financial 
performance of the Group's Iveco operation has continued to improve through higher like-for-like 
sales volumes, reduced stocking interest charges and an enhanced after-sales performance.  
These improvements have been aided by management changes made in early 2009 and the 
operation is continuing to demonstrate a turnaround in prospects. 
Used car sales were robust in March with like-for-like volumes comparable to the high benchmark 
of March 2009.  Margins are lower than the exceptional levels seen in 2009, but are in line with 
historic levels and used car profitability since the year-end has been in line with our expectations. 
The Group's after-sales operations have performed strongly in the new financial year, benefitting 
from higher vehicle sales volumes achieved by the Group in recent years and enhanced 
customer retention aided by the Group's contact centres and its service plan products.  Overall, 
the Board is pleased to report that the Group's profitability in March has been ahead of the 
Directors' expectations and April has been in line with expectations. 
Outlook 
Market conditions are likely to remain difficult in the coming year and in particular will see reduced 
year on year new retail vehicle sales as the impact of the scrappage scheme in the prior year 
distorts the comparatives.  The strength of the Euro will be a critical factor in whether European 
manufacturers have the financial ability to stimulate the UK new retail market.  The Group, 
however, remains well positioned to perform and, encouragingly, key product launches are 
generating significant consumer interest in all the franchises represented.   
New retail vehicle sales contribute only 17.6% of the Group's gross profit and the Board 
anticipate the other key revenue streams of used cars, fleet sales and after-sales will be resilient 
in the coming period.  Operational improvements in dealership performance continue to be 
gained and these coupled with the impact of acquired businesses ensure that the Board remain 
confident about the Group's prospects for the current financial year. 
Dividend 
As the cash generation of the underlying business grows, the Board intends to establish the 
payment of dividends with a maiden interim dividend payable in the second half of the current 
financial year.  We anticipate the dividend strategy to be modest at the outset in order to retain 
flexibility to fund the Group's acquisition strategy, but progressive going forwards with an interim 
and final component.  Chairman's Report (continued) 
4 
Board Changes 
During the year David Forbes, a Managing Director at Rothschild, was appointed as an 
independent Non-executive Director.  In addition Michael Sherwin, previously Group Finance 
Director of Games Workshop Group PLC, was appointed as Finance Director.  Karen Anderson 
became Company Secretary of the Group.  These appointments have added strength and depth 
to the Board at this important time in the growth of the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
P R Williams 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 