  
Contents
PAGE
Chairman's Statement 3 - 6
Advisers 7
Board of Directors 8
Report of the Directors 9 - 11
Corporate Governance 12 - 14
Report on Remuneration 15 - 16
Report of the Independent Auditors 17 - 18
Principal Accounting Policies 19 - 21
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 22
Consolidated Balance Sheet 23
Company Balance Sheet 24
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 25
Notes to the Financial Statements 26 - 41
3  
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report that Vianet was able to make significant progress, in the year to 30 September
2003, towards its objective of being the leading telemetrised application specialist in the European
vending market.
This progress was in line with the strategy outlined in last year's report of seeking to build recurring
revenues through long-term customer partnerships with global brands, operators and machine
manufacturers.  Vianet's strategy has been further enhanced by its strategic alliance with Alcatel which
was first announced in May 2003 and culminated in final agreements signed subsequent to the year-end
on 14 October 2003.
As well as the intensive effort over the second half of the year which went into progressing and
agreeing our relationship with Alcatel, Vianet was also able to develop the sales pipeline with the first
two account wins from major brands being announced in October 2003.
The financial benefits of these major developments are expected to show through in future periods but
each was critically important in enabling Vianet to complete, subsequent to the year-end, a further
successful fundraising, which raised  3.5million, net of expenses, to finance the Company's next stage
of development towards meaningful revenue generation and profitability.
Financial Results
The loss after tax for the year ended 30 September 2003 was in line with expectations at  1,902,577
(year to 30 September 2002:  1,798,325 loss) on sales of  33,714 (2002:  13,124). Net interest income
was  9,199 (2002:  17,906). The resultant basic loss per share was 3.1p (2002: basic loss per share
6.3p). The Group had approximately  143,000 of net cash at 30 September 2003. At 11 December,
following the successful conclusion of the Company's recent fundraising, net cash stood at  3.5
million.  No dividend is payable.
Trading and Operations
The above results reflect the costs, which are primarily people related, to support Vianet's further
progress over the year in its development towards a leading position in the European vending market.
Our in-house software engineering resources continue their transition from product development
towards a more market facing, customer focus, working closely with the sales and marketing team. The
Company's ability to service its market has been enhanced through further recruitment of staff with
commercial experience and European language skills. The involvement of six dedicated, primarily
market facing staff, from Alcatel significantly enhances our sales capability. 
Vianet's sales and marketing strategies over the last two years are now coming to fruition. On 21
October 2003 the Company announced that Selecta Group, the European market leader in providing
food and beverage services for breaks, had agreed to install 250 viTel data collection units across five
European countries for connection to vOpen early in calendar 2004 and that the Company has been
appointed to operate a managed services contract in respect of these units for a trial period of up to two
years.
Furthermore, on 22 October 2003, the Company announced that it had received an order on behalf of
Red Bull (Europe), the functional energy drinks producer, to purchase an initial 150 viTel units for
connection to vOpen on or before 31 March 2004.  Red Bull has been using approximately 30 viTel
units connected to vOpen over the past six months to help manage its energy drink vending operations
in the UK. 
The Company has increased the number of telemetry units in the field, or subject to orders, from 18 at
30 September 2002 to over 600 as at the date of this report.
Strategic Developments
4  
It was announced on 14 October 2003 that the Company had entered into both a Co-operation
Agreement and a Host Licence with Alcatel Bell NV (Alcatel ), a member of the Alcatel global
telecommunications solutions group.  These agreements constitute a mutually exclusive, extendable
five year global strategic marketing alliance targeted at the vending machine market and the grant of an
extendable five year licence of the Vianet software to Alcatel for the purposes of hosting and providing
our vOpen telemetry service.  Initial licence payments totalling  750,000 (excluding VAT) in respect
of 2003/2004 have been received by Vianet pursuant to these agreements, although income received
prior to 30 September 2003 has been deferred into the 2003/2004 profit and loss account. .
In order to further aid the development of the Company's ongoing relationship with Alcatel, the
Directors will consider the potential benefits of changing Vianet's financial year end to December to
coincide with that of Alcatel.
The Directors believe that the alliance with Alcatel is a very important strategic step for the Company
and is further endorsement of Vianet's position as a specialist application service provider to the
vending market. Sales and marketing co-operation between the two organisations will also
considerably leverage Vianet's existing resources in these areas and should lead to the acceleration of
revenue generation both through capturing additional customers and shortening the long lead times
which Vianet has experienced historically in closing commitments from major corporate customers.
Operational benefits which will flow from the alliance include Alcatel's telecommunications
capabilities and support for roll-outs on a pan-European basis to customers.
Board Structure and Management
The directors referred in the fundraising prospectus to the recent strengthening of the management team
through the recruitment of John Thomson in August 2003. John is a highly qualified manager and
brings significant international operations experience in building joint venture and distributor
relationships in the FMCG and the pharmaceutical sectors. His immediate priority has been to build
and manage a practical working relationship between the Company and Alcatel with a view to
maximising the potential of the alliance. As announced on 9 December 2003, John has now joined the
Board as Chief Operating Officer and he will be subject to re-appointment as a director at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.  
I am also pleased to announce it is intended that Clive Moffatt will join the Board as a non-executive
director with effect from 1 January 2004 in line with the intention stated in the Company's recent
prospectus to add non-executive expertise relevant to the Company's activities and markets. Clive has
extensive knowledge of international companies and marketing gained through both operational
experience and strategic consulting.  . Clive is managing partner of The Moffatt Associates Partnership
which prepared the independent market report contained in the Company's recent prospectus. His keen
appreciation and analysis of the issues to be addressed by the Company in facing the global FMCG
sector were instrumental in confirming the Board's opinion that Clive would make a significant
contribution to the Group. Clive will also be subject to re-appointment as a director at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting and I welcome him to the Board.  
I also announced my intention to step down as Chairman in view of increased external executive
responsibilities which I have recently assumed. I will therefore be resigning from the Board at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. By then I will have served almost four years as Chairman of
Vianet. During a very challenging time for small companies, Vianet has been looking to capitalise on
new technologies and it has proved necessary to undertake a fundamental review of the Company's
strategy and market position and a radical overhaul of the senior management team. The recruitment of
Ian Orrock as Chief Executive in November 2001 was the turning point in Vianet's development and I
am pleased to confirm that Ian will become Executive Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting. 
Throughout Vianet the efforts of management and staff in the year to 30 September 2003 have been
outstanding and have been a major factor in the Company's ability to remain focused and successful
5  
during a very challenging year. My thanks go to them for their continuing hard work and commitment
to Vianet's commercial success.
The average employee headcount during the year was 22 (2002: 22). The current headcount is 21.
Outlook
The Company has started its new financial year in good shape. The business model  remains geared to
securing long-term recurring revenues from major customers. It has also been refined and strengthened
by Vianet's alliance, as a specialist application service provider, with  Alcatel.  
Despite the volatility of the market, I remain confident of the Company's ability, in partnership with
Alcatel, to capture a material share of this evolving vending market. In parallel, we are in the early
stages of pursuing adjacent market opportunities for our core technology in other markets.
 The Company has been able to announce its first account wins from major industry brands and is in a
sound financial position to achieve its priorities of closing further sales and generating growing
revenues from successful roll-outs to an expanding blue-chip customer base.
John M May
Chairman
12 December 2003
6