 Highlights:
  Revenues up 36% to  2.29 million (2004:  1.69 million)
  First annual profit (2005: pre-tax, pre-impairment profit of  16,591, 2004: loss of  135,883)
  Cash at bank and in hand at year end over  700k (2004: over  300k)
  Cash flow from operating activities  144k
  Deferred income further increased at the year end at  292k (2004:  226k)
  Major new and highly profitable awards event, and a further awards event acquired
  Event management business acquired and now fully integrated within the business 
  Major investment has begun in the infrastructure of the business with the intention of providing a platform
for the next growth phase
  Commenced programme totally overhauling all aspects of existing web sites, with a view to driving further
internal efficiencies as well as improving the marketing of the sites
  Substantial investment in new products, a series of events capitalising on brand names, and databases will
provide a platform for profits growth over the next two to three years
  Major media investor, the Ingram family, invested  500k to provide funding for the investment in
infrastructure, web sites and new products, as well as to provide a war chest for small acquisitions
  Board was strengthened with the appointment of a new non-executive director, Chris Ingram, founder of
Tempus and The Ingram Partnership. 
BUSINESS REVIEW FOR PAST AND CURRENT YEAR
I am very happy with the progress that the group has made in this financial year, delivering a pre-exceptional
profit for the first time, launching a major new event in the quoted company calendar, as well as undertaking
a considerable investment programme, despite feeling the impact from Lloyds TSB Business Banking's decision
to end its support for the Small Business Guide.
The group has been reorganised along brand names into six areas of activity: Growth Company Investor,
Business XL, SmallBusiness.co.uk, GrowthBusiness.co.uk, Event Management and Other Products. This is to
focus the drive of the business on developing those products with the greatest potential.
Growth Company Investor
We include in this area subscription and advertising income for the magazine, websites, The Aim Guide,
research reports published under this brand name and events promoted by the title. Revenues for 2004/5 rose
43% to  780k, compared to  547k.
The redesign of the core magazine was well received by professionals and the drive of the business continues
to be to improve the income derived from that source. A major redevelopment and redesign of the associated
web sites (www.GrowthCompany.co.uk and www.SmallCompanies.co.uk) has begun in the current financial
year and we expect this to lead to a significant reduction in the administration workload of the subscription
team as well as to an improvement in our ability to market the product online. The magazine/web site provides
original coverage on around 1,700 companies and this should be reflected in traffic volumes bringing visitors
to the site to be made aware of our product, leading to a commensurate rise in subscription income. 
Recently we undertook qualitative research among professionals looking at all aspects of the magazine and web
sites. The results were extremely flattering, but nevertheless highlighted points that we could work on, from
both an editorial and revenue perspective, which would further enhance the business. During the current year,
a determined subscriptions campaign amongst corporates and professionals will be rolled out.
We are absolutely delighted with the launch of our first-ever Quoted Company Awards
(www.QuotedCompanyAwards.com). The event was supported by London Stock Exchange, Aim, Quoted
Companies Alliance and Financial Mail on Sunday, as well as many highly-rated professional firms including
Grant Thornton, Evolution and KBC Peel Hunt. The dinner sold out two months before it was held and the
evening was much enjoyed by all. 
4 VITESSE MEDIA PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
Chairman's Statement
Report&Accountsp1-24  2/6/05  4:34 pm  Page 4 During the current year, in June, we are launching a day-long show to provide a showcase for quoted
companies to institutional, professional and high net worth private investors
(www.GrowthCompany.co.uk/show) and expect this to become an exciting landmark day in the quoted
company calendar. The event is supported by the London Stock Exchange, Quoted Companies Alliance and
APCIMS amongst others, and will end with our prestigious Growth Company Awards, which will be staged
for the fifth successive year.
Since inception, the group has developed a database which fuels the work we carry out in The Aim Guide,
Growth Company Investor and our research reports. We are analysing how this unique database can be
exploited financially.
Business XL
Revenues for Business XL and its associated products were  514k for 2004/5, compared to  188k for the
previous year. There is some evidence that stronger growth will be experienced in 2005, the first two issues of
2005 showing an increase in advertising income. Part of this is due to improving market conditions and part
to an increased recognition of the importance of this title, compared to competitive titles.
Ten issues of Business XL were published during 2004, compared to six the previous year. We also launched a
series of seminars, Growth Cycle Seminars, during the year. In the current financial year, Business XL Live 
has organized a highly successful and thought-provoking summit within the media sector
(www.MediaAndMoney.co.uk). Further events under the Business XL brand name are at an advanced stage of
development and are likely to be launched during the autumn.
During the year, we purchased a majority share in Investor All Stars from its founders GP Capital, running the
event in partnership with them. The awards event for the venture capital industry showed significant growth
over the previous year, with both audience and sponsorship income demonstrating an increase of 94%. Further
opportunities exist to exploit this event more fully.
SmallBusiness.co.uk
Revenues for this highly profitable web site continue to show a strong increase, up 53% on the previous year.
Traffic to the site also shows a substantial improvement with a near-doubling of visitors, for example, in March
2005 compared to 2004. Business Go, our email newsletter, was redesigned during the year and is now received
by over 23,000 small businesses.
During the second half of this current financial year, the web site will be completely redeveloped, extending its
range and providing a platform to continue its development during the next two to three years. We are also
researching how we can exploit its name through other media.
GrowthBusiness.co.uk
As the first in our web redevelopment programme and following its relaunch in January 2005, the site is
attracting on average almost 1,000 visitors a day. Several strong brand names are now advertising on the site
and early indications are that they find this a very successful new marketing outlet for their products. 
Event management
During the 2004/5 financial year we completed the acquisition of the business of One Events. The events team
moved into our offices during November 2004 and three further members have been added, bringing the team
up to eight.  Integration of the business has occurred and is now well-established. The team are heading up the
drive to create our own events and exploit our brand names, while maintaining a stream of income from
managing events in the financial, health care and life sciences fields.
5 VITESSE MEDIA PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
Chairman's Statement
Report&Accountsp1-24  2/6/05  4:34 pm  Page 5 Other products
This area includes the Small Business Guide and Tax Guide, TheWrongPrice.com (an investor web site) and an
email investor newsletter, Peter Shearlock's Small Cap Stock Picks. There has been a fall in revenue in 2004/5
( 523k) compared to the previous year ( 743k), all of this attributable to the reduced purchases of the Small
Business and Tax Guides by Lloyds TSB. Further falls will occur in the current year. We are currently in
negotiations with two other organisations to maximise the revenues from these highly-regarded products and
also re-examining whether we should continue to publish these products direct ourselves. To present a prudent
view of our finances, we have taken the decision to write down the publishing rights in our balance sheet
attributed to these two products by  433k during our impairment review.
Outlook for the current and future years
We are confident that the group will deliver further strong sales growth during the current financial year.
However, the effect of the lower revenue from the Small Business Guide will all be felt in the first half of the
current financial year. For the year as a whole we expect to show an improvement at the bottom line compared
to the financial year 2004/5.
The major investments we are making in infrastructure, web sites and brand extensions and the refocusing of
our efforts on just four products should lead to significant growth in both revenues and profits over the medium
term. 
Finally, we continue to pursue opportunities for acquisitions as they emerge. We now have some experience of
integrating acquisitions that involve a team of people as well as products. The management team considers that
we can now develop some more ambitious acquisition ideas, provided that we can satisfy ourselves that they
will deliver shareholder value.
ESM Williams
Chairman and Chief Executive
25 April 2005
6 VITESSE MEDIA PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
Chairman's Statement
Report&Accountsp1-24  2/6/05  4:34 pm  Page 6