 Chairman's Statement
Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 1
Introduction
I am pleased to report that while the Group has had a particularly 
challenging year, we are now well positioned to achieve our 
long term goals.
While the construction industry has continued to suffer the 
effects of the global economic slow-down, we have increased 
the sales volume of Accoya  wood to 8,800m
3
. In addition we 
have signed 15 new distribution agency or supply agreements 
around the world since the last financial year which, together 
with two agreements signed since the year end, results in a 
total of 19 distribution, agency or supply agreements world-
wide.
We have continued to develop our technology which is being 
increasingly recognised for its superiority. I am particularly 
pleased by the announcement of the successful development 
of the Medite Tricoya 
 
at the Ecobuild exhibition in London in 
March, following the Joint Development Agreement reached 
with Medite (Europe) Limited last June. The unveiled panel is 
the world's first medium density fibreboard (MDF), which uses 
our acetylation technology to make superior, high performance 
panels. The global MDF market is currently estimated to be 50 
million m
3
 annually. 
We have focussed our efforts on increasing the effectiveness 
and efficiency of our plant in Arnhem. Through a combination of 
process modifications and the continuing increase in demand 
we anticipate that the proof of concept and research and 
development plant will be in a break even position during the 
2011 calendar year. The plant improvements achieved over 
the last year helped us to increase revenue from the sales of 
Accoya  wood by 33% despite the plant being effectively shut 
down for more than two months while these improvements 
took place. 
Our long-term business plan uses the increasing global sales 
for Accoya  wood generated from our distribution partners to 
create demand for licensing our technologies around the world. 
While the increase in distribution agreements is encouraging, 
the last year has also been disappointing with no new Accoya
 
 
wood licence agreements signed and delays experienced with 
both of our existing licensee's ability to progress with the 
construction of their plants. As a result, revenue generated 
from fees attributable to the licensing of our technology 
decreased by 71% to  6.7m.
However, we have started the new financial year much more 
positively, having recently announced that Diamond Wood 
China Limited ( Diamond Wood') is close to securing the funding 
it requires to complete the first phase of its plant with two 
reactors. In advance of the fund raising, Accsys entered into 
a deed of amendment on 18 June 2010, revising the terms 
of the existing Licence Agreement. The Licence Agreement 
was amended to reflect Diamond Wood's new business plan, 
which has been re-modelled to reflect its proposed funding 
arrangements. The new business plan is now based on a 
first phase of two reactors resulting in a significantly lower 
volume than that previously expected, with a view to then 
scaling upwards. Consequential adjustments to the Licence 
Agreement therefore include, inter alia, revised licence fee and 
royalty terms, with benefits for both parties. 
In addition we are now in discussions with a number of potential 
new licensees who have expressed interest in helping to 
further grow the global Accoya  wood brand.
Summary of financial results
Revenue of  16.7m (2009:  31.2m) was significantly less than 
the previous year as a result of the reduction in the recognition 
of licence income. However, revenue from sales of Accoya  
wood increased by 33% to  9.1m (2009:  6.9m) reflecting the 
growth in demand and production at our Arnhem plant together 
with price increases we have implemented. We have recorded 
a non-cash charge of  25.5m (2009:  nil) as a result of the 
delays Diamond Wood experienced in securing the funding 
for its plant. This provision reflects the expected change to 
Diamond Wood's business plan in respect of both the timing 
and the total capacity of the plant that Diamond Wood may 
now build compared to previously expected. The impairment 
included  17.2m of net receivables (trade receivables, accrued 
income and deferred income), which was attributable to 48% 
of the total revenue we have recognised in respect of our 
previous contract with Diamond Wood to date. The remaining 
52% has been received in cash. 
In addition, pending conclusion of Diamond Wood finalising its 
funding arrangements, a provision for the impairment of the 
entire balance of the equity investment of  10m has been 
recorded. In the event Diamond Wood completes the fund 
raising, the balance may be revalued.
Administrative expenses have been reduced by 3% to  17.7m 
(2009:  18.3m) before taking account of restructuring costs 
and impairments in the year. The reduction in licence revenue 
and one-off impairment charges have resulted in a loss after 
tax of  52.1m (2009: profit of  5.4m). Our cash balance at 
31 March 2010 was  18.3m (2009:  17.5m) which is the result 
of continuing capital expenditure and the loss recorded in the 
year, largely offset by new equity issued which generated 
 21.0m net of expenses (see Financial Review). The Group has 
no debt and an available equity line of credit for up to  19.5m 
for the next two years. 
Share price and market listings
Our share price has continued to fluctuate over the last year. 
In particular the gradual reduction in the share price compared 
to this time last year is disappointing having decreased from 
 0.80 to approximately  0.50 in November with a further 
reduction in May and June to  0.30.
Board and management
Finlay Morrison stepped down as Chief Executive in July 2009. 
I am extremely grateful to Finlay for his service since joining 
the Board in 2007, including his contribution to a number of 
manufacturing improvements.   Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 2
Chairman's Statement continued
 Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 2
Paul Clegg assumed the role of Chief Executive on 1 August 
2009, having been a non-executive director for the previous 
three months. During the subsequent period, Paul has driven 
some key changes in the Group including the operating 
improvements in Arnhem, team and management changes as 
well as driving interest with prospective investors and new 
licensees. 
Kevin Wood stepped down as Chief Financial Officer at the end 
of March 2010 but we are grateful to retain his experience 
and advice as he remains on the board as a non-executive 
Director. 
Hans Pauli joined the board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 
April 2010 following a transition period with Kevin Wood. 
Hans is splitting his time between our production and 
development plant in Arnhem and the London head office. 
Hans has brought with him a wealth of financial, investment, 
distribution and licensing experience, obtained in both public 
and private companies in various sectors including banking and 
biotechnology.
On the 1 April Tim Paterson-Brown and Tom Priday resigned 
as non-executive directors. I would like to thank them for their 
contribution and support over the previous years.
I have also announced that I will step down as Chairman of 
the Board of Directors and resign as a Director of the Company 
upon the planned completion of the Diamond Wood fund 
raising process. The Board looks forward to announcing its 
new Chairman in the near future.
We have reduced the number of staff in the Group to 107 
from 126 at 31 March 2009 as a result of the operating 
improvements and other changes made over the last year. 
Despite being a difficult period, their commitment and 
dedication has remained, for which I would like to thank them. 
I believe we now have the right team to achieve the success 
we are seeking.
Dividend
No final dividend is proposed in 2010, which follows no final 
dividend proposed in 2009. This reflects the loss we have 
reported in the last financial year together with the Board's 
decision to preserve as strong a balance sheet as possible 
while the Group continues to develop long term business 
opportunities. A dividend of  1,553,000 was paid in 2009 
relating to the final dividend proposed in 2008.
Prospects
The last year has proved challenging. However, I believe we are 
now in a strong position to take advantage of the technology 
and production facilities by using the strong team we have 
established. 
We have made significant progress in improving our production 
processes and sales and distribution channels such that we are 
now developing a global brand with an increasing number of 
applications and projects specifying Accoya  wood.
Following the agreement of an amended licence agreement with 
Diamond Wood, we look forward to the successful completion 
of the first phase of the plant in early 2012 (subject to the 
completion of their funding) and look forward to continuing to 
work with them. This comes at the same time as the interest 
from prospective new licensees is increasing. 
The successful development of Medite Tricoya , together with 
substantial advances in our progress towards identifying other 
species which our technology enhances, leaves us with a solid 
platform to continue to lead the market in wood technology.
The current global economy does however, remain uncertain 
with growth unpredictable. The Board will continue to review 
the Group's position and strategy and focus on improving 
processes, increasing efficiencies and maintaining the controls 
over expenditure to ensure that we are well placed to take 
advantage of our current position and new opportunities as 
they arise.
It is a pleasure to serve as your Chairman and I would like to 
thank you for your continuing support.
Willy Paterson-Brown
Non-executive Chairman
18 June 2010