 Overview
During 2013 we closed a successful three-year cycle of corporate development that was designed to restore stable
growth after listing on the UK AIM market. As I indicated in the last two annual reports, we have been making operating
decisions based a risk-adjusted cost of capital that prioritised our core American Leak Detection (ALD ) services
business because it is established and profitable. Our UK-based product business, while promising, is less well
established. Last year, we passed two operational milestones based on this approach: (i) sustained success executing
in our core business; and (ii) gaining institutional support in the financial marketplace. As a result of our success, we
have increased our cash position and now may loosen the constraints on reinvestment for accelerated growth.
Execution
As noted, during 2013 we focused on our core ALD business, and for the third consecutive year, Water Intelligence
improved its revenue and earnings results. Profit before taxes for the Company increased 15% year on year to
$611,800. Adjusted for non-cash amortisation expense, profit before taxes actually increased 17% year on year to
$944,000. Profits grew 70% year on year to $454,111 translating to an increase in earnings per share to 4.3p from
2.8p in 2012. Moreover, increased profitability did not come at the expense of revenue as we improved marginally
to $6.82 million from $6.74 million.
American Leak Detection
When one focuses on results in the core ALD business, there is a clearer picture of our underlying strength.
Revenue at ALD grew 9% year on year to $6.8 million. Royalty income, a measure of the health of the franchise
system, reached a record high at $4.61 million with a growth rate that accelerated year on year to 6%. Corporate
stores were flat at $1.45 million; and, as discussed below, will be an area of attention during 2014-15. Together,
our corporate store sales and royalty level implied that our system-wide sales footprint reached approximately
$60 million - a significant improvement over our three-year cycle. In general, product and equipment sales rose
55% year on year to $721,000. Equipment sales were led by a new product - Leakfinder - developed in the US
for our franchisees. Leakfinder sales partially offset the lack of Leakfrog sales in the UK. Our ability to have multiple
sources for product sales reflects our risk-adjusted cost of capital approach. Our shareholders benefit from such
operational flexibility.
During 2013, we accelerated our efforts to increase market penetration. We hired more associates to work with
both insurance companies and our franchisees. Our existing national footprint is an attribute sought by insurance
companies in their meeting residential and commercial demands all over the U.S. for pinpoint leak detection and
remediation. During 2013 and, now in 2014, we see increased insurance-related work reflected in the increase in
royalty income. Over time we expect to see this channel deliver recurring sales.
We are also working with partners to gain additional leverage from our resources. We have deepened our
relationships with companies that focus on municipal customers in the UK and abroad and others that focus on
property management customers in the U.S. We share mutuality of interests with each. For our partners, our
franchise system offers an annual sales footprint of over 100,000 municipalities, commercial businesses and
residential units from which to up-sell additional services. For our UK products, our partners have ready channels
for resale.
Qonnectis
Our UK products business is housed in our wholly-owned subsidiary Qonnectis Networks Limited (Qonnectis ).
During 2013, we focused primarily on developing the US services business and maintained our UK products
business. We are disappointed at the slow pace of testing of our Domestic Reporter product among UK utilities.
Combined with the lack of Leakfrog sales, Group Other Activities  sales, which predominantly comprise product
and equipment sales, dropped from $941,764 to $757,990 year on year. We have begun to revamp our sales
approach in the UK relying more on strategic relationships to engage in re-sale activities. We have been mindful
to cut unnecessary expenses in our Qonnectis product business until we decide on the right sales approach. We
reduced operating expenses to approximately $267,000 in 2013 from approximately $325,000 in 2012. We plan
to cut expenses further during 2014 and to rely on our partners for a physical sales presence.
Water Intelligence plc
3
Chairman's Statement Balance Sheet Strength
Our strategy of growing our ALD business while maintaining our Qonnectis business produced a much stronger
balance sheet that will lead to greater long-term flexibility in terms of growth options. The Company's year on
year cash position as at 31 December 2013 more than doubled from 31 December 2012 to approximately $800,000
because of increased earnings and a small equity issuance described below. Our bank debt, meanwhile, was paid
down on schedule reaching $1.97 million at year-end. Hence, net debt was reduced to approximately $1.18 million
at year-end or less than half the amount that existed at year-end 2012.
We have achieved a self-sustaining profile of creditworthiness: higher levels of cash, lower levels of debt and
higher flows of royalty income from ALD to accelerate repayment of debt or to reinvest in growth. With our profile,
we can attract institutional finance to build long-term partnerships. On the equity side, in November 2013, we
took a major step forward attracting a high quality institutional investor. We issued a limited number of ordinary
shares and raised approximately $600,000 net of transaction costs and fees. Our goal was to prepare the way for
working with institutional equity partners once we are ready to roll-out an accelerated growth plan. On the debt
side, because of our relatively stronger profile, on June 17, 2014, we were able to finalise the refinancing of our
debt with Liberty Bank of Connecticut at attractive rates. We were also able to add approximately $1,000,000 in
new cash while cutting our overall amortisation expense by approximately 25% from our current amortisation
schedule. As we launch our growth plan, we look forward to working with strong institutional players from both
the debt and equity markets.
Outlook
Our franchisees are fully behind our initiatives in building national sales channels to leverage our extensive U.S.
and core international footprint in providing non-invasive, water leak detection solutions. From software to
marketing, our franchisees have begun to make the necessary investments to effectively serve our insurance
channel customers. One indication of a shared commitment to our growth plan came in November 2013 when ALD
had its annual franchise convention. The theme of the Convention was TEAM: Together Everyone Achieves More.
Since the Convention, management and franchisees have worked together to accelerate growth. During Q1 2014,
the board has begun to supplement the management team's skills by integrating board member David Silverstone
and senior franchise leaders in designing and executing our forward-looking growth plan.
During October 2014, ALD will celebrate its 40th anniversary as a company. Market demand has never been
higher for our ALD products and services. During March 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
provided striking data as part of its Sixth Annual Fix a Leak Week. The EPA communicated that the average U.S.
household wastes approximately 10,000 gallons of water annually from leakage. ALD, especially because of its non-
invasive approach and nationwide footprint, is well-positioned to help address this problem. In addition, our UK
products may help improve our offering if adapted for the U.S. market. On May 18, 2014, the Wall Street Journal
(New Technology Tools Aim to Reduce Water Use) reported that approximately 40% of the continental US is
battling drought and that water utilities and consumers are turning to software and mobile apps to assess how
much water they are using. We are committing some resources to refocus our product roadmap - especially
Domestic Reporter - on our go-to-market approach in the U.S. To reiterate, we are able to raise our sights after
returning to balance sheet strength. The demand for a range of product and services solutions is urgent. For
example, California informed its water agencies that urban water use should be cut by 20% by 2020.
During 2014, we have begun to increase spending to initiate a growth plan that captures increasing market
demand. During Q1 2014, we hired additional headcount to build out our well-received insurance sales channel.
We are also spending resources to address areas where we can do a lot better. For example, given strong market
demand, corporate store performance could be improved with additional execution help. Because of an existing
franchise footprint across the U.S., we have a great opportunity to fill market demand in open spaces among our
franchisees with corporate-run trucks that will add directly to revenue and earnings. Such increased corporate
presence will have the collateral benefit of supporting our franchisees more directly in the field. We will also begin
to focus on alternative ways to increase our critical mass, such as with franchise buybacks, to take advantage of
our existing $60 million in profitable sales across the franchise system. We hope to see additional sales growth in
2015 after making these investments in 2014.
Water Intelligence plc
4
Chairman's Statement
continued In launching our growth plan, our starting point remains reinvesting in activities that drive our existing revenue and
earnings base. Our product roadmap and sales approach will support this strength in a disciplined way. With such
discipline on execution and franchisee support in our plan, we believe that we will find continued support among
institutional finance given an exciting market opportunity. The results reflected above relate to continuing activities.
The profit for the current and prior year and the total comprehensive profit for the current and total comprehensive
loss for the prior year are wholly attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company, Water Intelligence plc.
Dr. Patrick DeSouza
Executive Chairman
17 June 2014
Water Intelligence plc
5
Chairman's Statement
continued