 Chairman' Chairman's S s St tatement atement
For the year to 30 June 2004, Waterman
Group reports an increased pre tax profit
of  2.0m (2003 :  1.9m) on work done of
 65.0m (2003 :  61.3m).  Basic earnings per
share were 5.1p (2003 : 5.2p) and net
assets per share stand at  92p (2003 : 93p).
The Board is recommending a maintained
final dividend of 3p (2003 : 3p) per share
which with a maintained interim dividend of
1.9p makes a total for the year of 4.9p per
share (2003 : 4.9p).  The final dividend will
be payable on 15 December 2004 to
shareholders on the register on
19 November 2004.
The increasing number of large urban
regeneration projects has more than offset
the reduction of work in the commercial
sector.  However, there is growing demand
for the Group's pre-planning services in the
commercial sector which indicates that
Waterman is well placed to benefit as this
market recovers.  Margin pressures remain in
place due to higher insurance costs and
national insurance charges being absorbed
by the Group, in common with all service
providers.   However, the Group has an
excellent long term order book.
Group Group Activities Activities
The Group continues to provide multi-
discipline consultancy services on several of
the largest urban regeneration projects in the
UK, including whitecity
TM
in West London.
This project is one of London's major
developments of 350,000m
2
incorporating a
shopping centre, a new underground railway
depot and three new stations for London
Underground.  The Group's main disciplines
are all contributing to this important project.
A number of other major urban regeneration
projects are in the early stages of design,
including Paradise Street in Liverpool, Park
Place in Croydon, Broadmead in Bristol and
Broadway in Bradford.  These projects,
together with other commissions in this
sector are scheduled to contribute to the
Group's workload until late 2009.  Other
projects in progress include HM Treasury
Building (Phase II), Regent Street in London,
Nottingham Eastside and the Bullring project
in Birmingham, which was successfully
completed during the year.
Waterman Burrow Crocker, the Group's civil
engineering consultancy, has continued to
develop successfully during the year.  The
portfolio includes work in the rail sector,
highways, infrastructure and major projects.
Design work continues on the new Central Line
depot for London Underground at White City and
Parkside Colliery, a large rail freight
development in Merseyside.  Waterman Aspen,
the Group's outsourcing specialist, has
continued to expand its civil engineering support
services business.  Throughout the UK, 200 staff
are placed within 90 client offices providing
professional advice, principally in the field of
highways maintenance. 
Waterman Gore, the Group's specialist
mechanical and electrical consultancy, has
established a new division to focus on facilities
management consultancy.  The new division,
known as Waterman Gore Asset Management
Consultants, is currently advising a number of
major clients on their maintenance programmes,
which include measures to optimise the
performance of their mechanical and electrical
installations.  During the year a number of major
projects progressed through the design and
construction stage including HM Treasury
building Phase II, K2 office development at St
Katharine's Dock, Spinningfields in Manchester
and the Lateral development in Leeds.
Waterman Gore has established a good order
book of long term projects for the future.
Moylan, the Group's Dublin based consultancy,
has once again successfully completed a record
volume of work during the year.  The company is
advising on some of the largest mixed use and
residential developments in the Dublin area,
including major projects at the Grange New
Town and Belcamp in north Dublin, Ongar
Village in west Dublin and a new 170 bed hotel
for Hilton near  Dublin airport.  These projects
form the basis of a good order book for next
year, which includes a high level of repeat
business. 
The Group's environmental consultancies have
continued to grow during the year, with an
increased volume of work in the public sector.
Commissions include the South Downs National
Park for the Countryside Agency and The
Quadrant, Regent Street, London W1 for the
Crown Estate.  Consultancy services have also
been provided for Land Securities, British Land,
Network Rail and HM Prison Service.
Waterman International has continued to expand
during the year with new operations being
established in China and Dubai.  In China,
where the Group has already successfully
completed eight projects, a new subsidiary
has been formed in Beijing in July 2003.  In
Dubai a new branch office of Waterman
International Asia Pty was established in
April 2004, to provide mechanical and
electrical consultancy services.  China and
Dubai represent two of the world's most
important and long term development
markets which have the potential to
generate increasing volumes of work in the
future.
The Group continues to participate, as a
consultant, in the government's private
finance (PFI and PPP) programme, in the
areas of healthcare, education, infrastructure
and government offices.  Work at HM
Treasury building Phase II continues and the
refurbishment of the MOD main building in
Whitehall has been successfully completed.
Waterman is advising on new school
programmes in Middlesex and Yorkshire and
on a major waste management project in
Sheffield.  The Group is assisting other
consortia in bidding for future PFI projects.
S Strategy trategy
The Group's strategy is to continue to invest
in sectors and regions which will deliver long
term growth and profitability.  Recent
investments in China and Dubai have
focused on two of the world's largest
construction markets.  The range of services
will be extended in response to our clients'
needs, in both the private and the public
sectors.  We recognise the importance of
climate change and the need to respond to
global sustainability initiatives, and are
developing a new range of services which
will enable our clients to meet these
changing demands.
1
4
William Mathieson, Chairman Acquisitions Acquisitions
On 1 July 2003, the Group acquired 100 per
cent of the share capital of Technical
Computer Applications NV (TCA), a civil and
structural consultant based in Brussels, with
a branch office in Bucharest, Romania.
During its first year as part of the Group,
Waterman TCA has performed in line with
expectations and has maintained its 'top 3'
position in the Brussels market.  Current
projects include LEX 2000, a conference
centre for the EU of 84,000 m
2
and the
upgrading of the Tour Madou, a 33 storey
office tower in Brussels.  The Group expects
to benefit from increased construction activity
in the enlarged European Union.
Employee Relations Employee Relations
The Group's most valuable asset is its staff.
The ongoing and continued support of all
staff enables our business to develop and
progress. The level of repeat business from
regular clients is a reflection of their respect
for the professionalism and reliability of our
staff.
The Group rewards its staff through a range
of salary and benefit packages including an
appropriation of shares from pre tax profits. A
share option scheme operates to provide senior
management with the opportunity to acquire
shares in the company upon achievement of
performance targets. 
During the year, some of the Group's UK
operations have trialled a flexible benefit
scheme which enables staff to select from a
range of benefits. This new scheme forms part
of the recruitment and retention strategy and
has been well received by staff.  Upon
completion of the trial period, it is likely to be
extended to other parts of the Group next year.
Finally, I would like to thank all members of staff
for their valuable contribution over the last year,
and to welcome new staff who have joined the
Group.
Board Board Appointment Appointments s
On 1 July 2004, the Board appointed Roger
Fidgen as a new non-executive director.  Roger
is well known in our sector having been senior
partner at Gardiner & Theobald, a leading
international cost consultant and project
manager.  I would like to welcome Roger to our
Board and I am certain that his extensive
experience in the sector will be of great
benefit to the Group.
Future Prospect Future Prospects s
The Group starts the new financial year with
a substantial long term order book.  The
reduction in activity in the commercial sector
has been offset by major long term urban
regeneration projects, which will continue for
at least the next five years.  The Group has
been appointed for pre-planning services for
a number of new commercial projects in the
City of London, which are expected to
proceed as this market recovers.  The
Group is now providing a wide range of
services to its clients and further investment
is planned in new services and areas to
achieve improved earnings in the future.
The Group's excellent  order book combined
with its strong balance sheet enables us to
view the future with confidence.
W Mathieson
Chairman
15 October 2004
1
5
City Centre Redevlopment, Paradise Street, Liverpool
Image courtesy of The John Mills Group