 10 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Chairman's statement
2012 was a year characterised by significant 
investment in growth offset by uneven 
business conditions in our markets and 
by variable levels of achievement across 
our companies. Whilst we have made 
progress on multiple fronts, including the 
development of new products and our 
recently established Consumer Division, 
our results were disappointing when 
compared to the Board's expectations. 
We have been working hard to put in place 
robust strategies to address the areas of 
concern and remain confident that our 
actions will translate into better results. 
Results Results 
Group revenue increased by 19.0 per cent 
to $101.0 million (2011: $84.9 million). Adjusted 
EBITDA increased by 12.6 per cent to 
$14.7 million (2011: $13.0 million). Adjusted 
operating profit decreased by 7.4 per cent 
to $7.3 million (2011: $7.9 million) as a result 
of a combination of increased investment 
in research and development, weak trading 
from our indirect sales and a delay in the 
launch of products from our Consumer 
Division. Accordingly operating profit 
decreased by 51.9 per cent to $2.5 million 
(2011: $5.3 million). Earnings per share 
decreased by 62.1 per cent to 1.56 cents 
(2011: 4.12 cents) due in part to the full year 
effect of the Group's equity issuance at 
Admission to AIM in July 2011.
The increase in revenue was a result of a 
combination of mostly contributions from 
acquisitions with some organic growth 
(1 per cent) in the underlying business. 
Our balance sheet remains strong, ending 
the year with net cash and cash equivalents 
of $29.8 million (2011: $50.6 million), reflecting 
a net cash inflow from operating activities 
of $6.9 million (2011: $3.5 million), $21.0 million 
spent on acquisitions (2011: $6.0 million, 
including $0.7 million deferred consideration) 
and $3.3 million of net loan repayments 
(2011: $7.4 million). Net funds were 
$24.4 million (2011: $43.3 million). A more 
detailed review of this year's performance 
is given in the Business and Financial Review.
Dividends Dividends
The Board does not propose a dividend 
for the year. It intends to pay dividends to 
shareholders in the future when the Group 
is able and it is appropriate to do so. The 
dividend policy continues to be reviewed 
regularly by the Board.
 2012 was a year of progress 
on multiple fronts in spite of 
disappointing results. In 2012 
we strengthened the foundation 
for future success. 
In summary
 w Adjusted EBITDA increased 12.6 per cent to $14.7 million (2011: $13.0 million).
 w Adjusted operating profit decreased 7.4 per cent to $7.3 million 
(2011: $7.9 million).
 w Revenue up 19.0 per cent to $101.0 million (2011: $84.9 million).
 w
Our balance sheet remains strong, ending the year with net cash and cash 
equivalents of $29.8 million (2011: $50.6 million).
 w During 2012 we made further progress in delivering on our strategy, 
acquiring six bolt-on businesses.
 w Strengthened the Board and management team with key appointments.
Ariel Recanati Group Non-Executive Chairman 11 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Strategy Strategy
During 2012 we made further progress in 
delivering on our strategy of strengthening 
further our position as a leading international 
manufacturer and distributor of quality 
POU water coolers, acquiring six bolt-on 
businesses in countries where we already 
had wholly-owned direct sales operations, 
in Scandinavia, France and the US. In addition 
we signed a joint venture agreement for the 
manufacture of our products in India. Our 
joint venture partner will then distribute 
these products in India.
Building on our Firewall  UV technology 
commercialisation strategy, we have signed 
two further supply agreements with leading 
consumer products companies, with shipment 
of our first consumer products beginning in 
Q1 2013 and expected commercial launch 
in Q2 2013.
We also invested in our infrastructure and 
added talented people to our company in 
order to achieve our objectives. This included 
recruiting several people to our developing 
Consumer Division. 
Since year end we have completed the 
acquisition of Water Filters Limited trading 
as Aqua Cure Scotland (consideration 
$0.5 million) in the UK and increased our 
shareholding in our existing Aqua Cure 
business in the UK from 70 per cent to 
93.85 per cent.
Board and governance Board and governance
Last year, we as a Board agreed on a number 
of key responsibilities. The first was to discuss 
and refine our strategy and to hold the 
executive team accountable for its execution; 
the second was to ensure we have the right 
team in place and to plan for succession; 
and the third was to set the tone for 
governance to ensure that high standards 
of governance are part of our culture.
During 2012, we have maintained our 
focus on these responsibilities, further 
developing a number of the key elements 
of our Governance Strategy, a process 
that we intend to continue into the future. 
Underpinning this strategy has been the 
on-going development of controls and 
challenge and support to the Executive 
Directors to ensure adequate planning 
to deliver our business plan in a difficult 
trading environment.
We have continued to monitor the composition 
of our Board since our Admission to AIM in 
2011 and in doing so identified the need to 
strengthen our commercial and international 
experience. As a result, we are pleased to 
welcome Peter Cohen to the Group as 
Chief Executive of our Waterlogic Commercial 
Division. This appointment has enabled 
Jeremy Ben-David, our Group Chief Executive 
Officer, to focus more of his time on the 
Consumer Division, an area in which we see 
significant growth opportunity for the Group 
in the coming years. We believe that the 
opportunities we see in both the commercial 
and the consumer areas warrant the focus on 
those two divisions by talented individuals with 
a proven record of managing entrepreneurial 
growth. As of 31 December 2012, Steven 
Harrison stepped down from his role as 
Group CFO. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank him for his contribution to the 
success and development of the Group, 
including its successful Admission to AIM 
and subsequent growth. We wish Steve 
the very best in his future endeavours. 
The process to recruit a suitable replacement 
Group CFO has progressed well and we 
expect to soon make an announcement 
in this regard. 
Our Board currently comprises two Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors. 
Of these Non-Executive Directors, the Board 
considers three to be independent. The 
Board comprises business leaders from a 
wide range of sectors including accounting, 
banking, general management, investing, 
management consulting, operations, sales 
and marketing. Between them they have an 
extensive geographic knowledge.
Further to the appointment of a Director of 
Internal Audit announced last year, we have 
delivered a number of initiatives, including a 
Board performance evaluation process and 
an assessment of corporate governance 
compliance, and we will shortly be launching 
our Code of Conduct across the Group. 
Further information on the Board and 
governance is given in the Governance 
section of the Directors' Report.
Outlook Outlook
We expect 2013 to be a year of progress 
with a combination of organic growth, 
contributions from new acquisitions and 
the commercial launch of products from 
the Consumer Division.
The commercial environment remains 
challenging in some of our international 
territories but we have developed a clear 
plan for the business in the coming years 
and are committed to its execution. In these 
tough economic times, we believe it is vital 
that we listen to our customers and stay 
true to our corporate values in order to 
successfully execute our strategy.
Our strong balance sheet means that we 
are ideally positioned to take advantage of 
accretive acquisitions that we have identified. 
We intend to proceed in a disciplined and 
deliberate manner so that acquisitions 
deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
As I stated last year, we have developed 
new products for existing and new markets. 
During 2013, following the signature of key 
partners, we expect to commence the 
distribution of our first Firewall  units into 
the consumer market.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank our employees at all levels for their 
continued commitment and dedication to 
making this an exceptional company.
AGM AGM
The Annual General Meeting will be held in 
Dublin on 5 June 2013. You will find enclosed 
with this document a Notice of Annual General 
Meeting and a Form of Proxy which you are 
requested to complete in accordance with 
the instructions on the form. My fellow 
Directors and I look forward to meeting 
you at that time.
Ariel Recanati Ariel Recanati
Group Non-Executive Chairman
12 April 2013