 Chairman's Statement
2012 was a transformative year during which we completed the demerger of our operating businesses by way of the
sale of our principal subsidiary, Western Utilities Corporation Pty Ltd (WUC ) to Mine Restoration Investments Ltd
(MRI ). Following this disposal, Watermark became a de facto investment company with a 40 per cent equity
interest in MRI, together with a loan of ZAR20m, subsequently paid down to ZAR15m secured by, and convertible at
our option into, MRI shares. With this new structure, the Board intends to support the development of MRI, which
is due to commence production and become revenue generating this year and seek further investment
opportunities in African-based projects in the natural resources and infrastructure sectors.
Results
The WUC sale, for an aggregate consideration of  4.50 million, was satisfied by a combination of cash ( 1.81 million),
and shares in MRI ( 2.69 million), recording a profit on disposal of  2.25 million, after expenses, in the year ended
31 December 2012 and a profit after tax for the year of  1.389 million.
As part of the process of preparing the accounts of the Company, the Directors are required to review the carrying
value of all it assets. Accordingly, the Directors have reduced the carrying value of the Company's shareholding in
MRI by  0.5 million to more accurately reflect the current share price of MRI. As at 31 December 2012 the Company
had net assets of  3.819 million (2011:  4.572 million).
Mine Restoration Investments Ltd (MRI )
MRI's main activities are the commercialisation of its coal briquetting technology and of its long term solution to the
treatment for Acid Mine Drainage (AMD). The Company currently holds 40 per cent of the issued share capital of
MRI, which is listed on the AltX exchange in South Africa. In addition, a ZAR15 million loan to another major
shareholder of MRI has been secured on a further 17 per cent of the issued share capital of MRI. The loan pays a
coupon of 2% over South African prime rate. Whilst this loan note is currently redeemable on 12 July 2013, the
Directors are, at this stage, likely to extend the repayment date to allow the Company to maintain the optionality
over the MRI shares, given the relatively near term commencement of commercial operations at MRI.
Coal Briquetting
MRI is in the final stages of constructing and commissioning a coal briquetting plant at an anthracite coal mine in
the KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa. Whilst there have been delays to its commissioning resulting in an
additional funding requirement to commence commercial operations of approximately  0.65m, of which  325,000
is being provided by the two principal shareholders, the Board of MRI expects to achieve the remaining funding and
production to commence in September 2013 at the rate of 5,000 tons per month. Your Board believes that this will
be a significant milestone for the Company and will demonstrate its efficacy on a commercial scale. The next step is
for MRI to seek further sites to build additional plants and roll out the concept. The completion of this initial plant
will result in maiden revenues for MRI which the Directors believe will underpin the intrinsic value of MRI.
Acid Mine Drainage
Various discussions have taken place between MRI, the Department of Water Affairs (DWA ) and Aurecon, who
have been appointed contractor to the DWA for investigating long term sustainable solutions for acid mine drainage.
The DWA asked for expressions of interest in relation to the long term solution in December 2012 which MRI has
done. At the beginning of this year, MRI submitted their project summary to the DWA, to which they now await a
response. MRI expects the outcome of Aurecon's investigations and the shortlist of companies selected to tender
for the long term solution to be announced shortly. Importantly, our relationship with the mines involved in the
various basins remains strong. This gives continued confidence that MRI's solution remains one of the most
attractive to all parties.
Page | 3
  Strategy and Investing policy
Following the disposal of WUC, the Group ceased to have any operating businesses. The Company used a portion of
the cash proceeds to make a loan of ZAR20m to a shareholder of MRI, the proceeds of which were used to subscribe
for shares in MRI. ZAR5m of the loan has since been repaid, with the balance secured on MRI shares.
The Group is now fully invested with the principal assets being a 40 per cent interest in MRI, together with the loan,
secured on MRI shares. Your Board intends to continue to support its substantial investment in MRI which it believes
has considerable upside potential. The next significant milestone for MRI is the completion of the commissioning of
the coal briquetting project which should deliver maiden revenues for MRI. Once proven on a commercial level,
there are many opportunities to roll the technology out to other sites and build additional and larger plants.
As we have indicated, part of your Board's brief has also been to investigate and source other opportunities for
investment. In line with its investment policy, the Company is seeking investments with the following key
characteristics:
           African based projects in the natural resources or infrastructure sectors;
           Near term potential of cash flow - in production 12-18 months from investment;
           An existing experienced core management team which can be expanded over time.
Your Board believes this is an opportune time to be seeking new opportunities as there are many firms in the current
phase of the resources cycle wishing to dispose of natural resource assets at prices which are now more realistic
than a year ago. We are looking to acquire interests in assets which are near producing cash flow, probably in Africa
and accretive. Furthermore we are only interested in businesses where we can see the financing would be
realistically achieved. We believe there will be a number of potential opportunities that fit this criteria.
To date, we have looked closely at two in the natural resources area, one in coal and the other gold. Neither, for
different reasons, matched up to our criteria in terms of risk/reward . We will of course remain actively looking, with
the help of our advisers and our broader networks, to build a portfolio of investments over the medium term to
enhance the growth prospects of the company. 
Board
Following the disposal of WUC, Jaco Schoeman ceased to be Managing Director and left the board, becoming Chief
Executive of MRI. On behalf of the board, I would like to thank Jaco for his significant contribution to the Group over
the last 6 years. Jaco has guided the development of the business and I am pleased shareholders continue to benefit
from his expertise through our investment in MRI. 
I am delighted that Justin Lewis has accepted our invitation to the Board. Justin brings with him an extensive
network of contacts and experience in the both the Southern African resources industry and also the international
financial markets which will be of considerable benefit in identifying new investment opportunities for the Company
in the future. Most recently, Justin has led the development of Beacon Hill Resources Plc, from a small London listed
investment company to one of the three coal producers in Mozambique.
Change of name/Annual General Meeting
Enclosed with the accounts is a notice of Annual General Meeting. In addition to the usual resolutions, you will note
the Company is proposing to undertake a capital reorganisation by way of a share split and consolidation. Because
the par value of the ordinary shares is currently greater than the market value of the shares, the Company is unable
to issue shares. The resolutions, if passed by shareholders, will rectify this.
Your Board is also proposing the Company change its name to Armadale Capital Plc., in keeping with the change from
an operating compny to an investment company.
4 | Page
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) Outlook
The Company has now completed its transformation from the operator, developer and funder of the technological
processes owned by WUC to an investor through its interests in MRI. Importantly the Company has maintained an
option over the upside potential of these technologies but no longer has the direct responsibility for funding them.
Whilst currently fully invested, your Directors believe the Company now has a good platform from which to look at
other investments which can be added alongside its interests in MRI.
On behalf of the Board I wish to thank all our shareholders for their on-going support for the Company during what
has been another year of significant change. With the anticipated commencement of the briquetting plant over the
course of the remainder of 2013 and some positive progress on the AMD front, we look forward to the rest of this
year and beyond with considerable optimism and will be in contact with our shareholders through the release of
additional updates.
Peter Marks
Chairman
3 June 2013
Page | 5
 
Chairman's Statement (continued)