 Chairman's statement
Since my appointment as Chairman of Wembley in
1995, following the refinancing of the company, the
Board has pursued a clear 3-point strategy to release
the inherent value from within Wembley:
1 Maximise operating income;
2 Release cash from under-performing assets; and
3 Determine a way forward for the core businesses 
to secure future growth.
The sale of under-performing assets was completed
by the beginning of 2003 following the disposals of
Wembley Stadium in 1999 for  106m and the
remaining land at Wembley in 2002 for  48.6m. The
cash released from these disposals allowed Wembley 
to return  118m to shareholders through a programme
of share buy-backs that resulted in the purchase and
cancellation of around 40% of its issued share capital. 
Wembley has emerged as a focused gaming group,
operating in the UK and in Rhode Island and Colorado
in the US. Operating profit (excluding exceptional
items) has improved during this period from  19.7m
in 1995 to  35.3m in 2003 and Wembley's principal
asset, Lincoln Park in Rhode Island, is now
recognised as arguably the best performing venue 
of its type in the US. Since 1995, shareholders have
received dividends totalling 69 pence per share and
have benefited from substantial share price growth.
With in excess of 90% of profits now being generated
by Lincoln Park, the Board, in determining the way
forward for Wembley, faced the issue of a heavy
concentration of the earnings stream being generated
in one location. As this business is also highly
dependent upon political and regulatory influences,
the risk profile is high. This concentration of risk has
led, inter alia, to a low rating of Wembley's shares on
the London Stock Market compared to its more
diversified UK and US peer group. In order to solve
this rating deficiency, the Board had the choice
between two competing strategies:
1 Expand the business beyond Lincoln Park by
acquiring additional gaming operations; or
2 Sell the existing businesses at a premium.
The first option would have required us to buy gaming
operations in direct competition with the larger US
operators. The Board believed that the second option
would result in shareholder value being maximised.
As a result, in 2003 we began exploratory discussions
regarding a possible sale of all or part of the Wembley
Group. This process was temporarily hindered by the
announcement in September 2003 that, following an
investigation by a Federal Grand Jury in Rhode Island,
an indictment had been issued against Lincoln Park
Inc. and two Wembley executives.
The discussions subsequently resumed, culminating in
the announcement on 27 January 2004 that the Board
had reached agreement with MGM MIRAGE (MGM ) 
of the USA on the terms of a recommended cash
acquisition of Wembley plc at a price of 750 pence per
share. Simultaneous with the acquisition, shareholders
would also obtain a share in a new company created to
ring-fence the litigation associated with Lincoln Park
that would have cash balances of $16.3m (equivalent 
to approximately 25 pence per Wembley share). This
amount would be available to meet any fine that may 
be imposed upon that company (now capped at $8m,
following agreement to this effect with the US
Attorney), together with legal and other costs
associated with the litigation. Once legal proceedings
had concluded, any surplus cash within that company
would be returned to shareholders. On announcement,
shareholders representing 52% of Wembley's issued
share capital had indicated to MGM that they intended
to vote in favour of the proposal. The price of 750 pence
per share represents both a premium of 42.2% over 
the closing mid-market price of 527.5 pence per share
on 19 November 2003, the day prior to Wembley's
announcement that it had received approaches to
acquire some or all of its assets, and share price
growth of 275% since May 1995, compared to a rise in
the FTSE Leisure Index over the same period of 46%.
The Board believes that this is a good exit price for
Wembley's shareholders. It is an acquisition that the
Board believes provides the best opportunity for
shareholders to realise their investments in cash and 
at a significant premium to the previously prevailing
share price. An analysis of the events in 2003 will help
to illustrate some of the reasons behind the Board's
thinking in recommending the MGM acquisition.
The Group experienced a difficult 12 months,
particularly as a result of the indictment in Rhode
Island. In addition, legislative changes considerably
reduced Lincoln Park's share of revenue from its video
lottery terminal (VLT ) operation and a proposal to
introduce VLTs into Wembley's Colorado racetracks
was rejected by voters. These setbacks were only
partially offset by Lincoln Park being granted
permission, in January 2003, to install a further 1,300
VLTs. These new VLTs have the capability to yield
significant long-term value, subject to the ability to
construct a new building in which to house them. 
02
_
Wembley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 The indictment issued against Lincoln Park and two
Wembley executives follows a Federal Grand Jury
investigation into allegations relating to the preliminary
consideration of a possible bonus or retainer to Lincoln
Park's long-standing legal attorney in Rhode Island. The
indictment alleges that this constituted a conspiracy to
influence improperly the actions of public officials. The
implications of a criminal conviction for the Lincoln
Park business, in the absence of a reorganisation along
the lines of that envisaged in the proposed sale to MGM,
are potentially serious. However, the Board of Wembley
believes that no US laws were broken and that there
was no intention to break any US laws. No payment was
approved, no payment was ever made and the Board
remains of the view that these allegations are without
foundation. The indicted executives, who have both
stood down from their executive duties, have the full
support of Wembley and the allegations will be
vigorously defended at trial. In January 2004,
agreement was reached with the US Attorney that both
allowed the ring-fencing of the Lincoln Park indictment
and capped the maximum liability at $8m. This amount
has been transferred into an escrow account. A date for
the trial has yet to be announced. The costs incurred in
2003 in relation to the indictment were  1.4m and have
been expensed as an exceptional item.
Authorisation for a further 1,300 VLTs at Lincoln 
Park was received from the Rhode Island Lottery
Commission in January 2003, bringing the total
number permitted to 3,000. Of the new VLTs, 572 
were installed during the first half of the year,
augmenting the existing 1,700. The implementation of
the balance, and in particular, the location of all 3,000
VLTs in an optimal ground-floor location, is dependent
on the construction of a new building at the Lincoln
Park site. Construction is in turn dependent upon
Lincoln Park securing a long-term revenue sharing
agreement with the State. This agreement is essential,
given that unexpected legislative changes reduced
Lincoln Park's share of VLT revenue from 30.5% to 
27% with effect from 1 July 2003, following a reduction
from 31% in July 2002. In order to commit the required
investment and thereby maximise revenue, it is
imperative that assurance over future levels of 
revenue share is received. 
In a November 2003 referendum, Colorado voters
rejected a proposal to introduce VLTs into Colorado's
racetracks. Wembley's Colorado operation supported
the proposal because it believed that the proposal had
a reasonable chance of success and, if passed, would
have been of great benefit to Wembley, as it owns four
out of the five racetracks in the State. 
Operating profit (from continuing operations before
exceptional charges) of  35.3m was  4.0m lower 
than in 2002 ( 39.3m) caused, in particular, by the
strengthening of sterling against the US dollar to 
an average rate of  1:$1.64 (2002:  1:$1.50). This
adversely affected profit in the period by around
 3.2m. Sterling has continued to strengthen against
the US dollar to a current level of around  1:$1.87.
Revenues generated within the US gaming division
remained strong, due primarily to the VLT operation at
Lincoln Park. The average weekly VLT revenue, which
is the key performance indicator of this business,
increased by around 13% to $5.1m (2002: $4.5m). The
additional 572 VLTs introduced during the first half of
2003 were largely responsible for this growth.
However, the benefit of this increase in revenue was
offset by the reduction in Lincoln Park's share of it.
The UK gaming division had a difficult year,
particularly at its two London tracks. At Wimbledon,
operational changes made mid-way through the year
improved its performance in the second half.
Following a review, the Board decided to dispose of
the loss-making Catford track and operations there
were ended in November 2003. Discussions with a
potential acquirer of the site are progressing. 
Following the announcement of the recommended
cash acquisition of Wembley plc by MGM, no final
dividend will be paid. 
Business in 2004 has started well. The average weekly
VLT revenue at Lincoln Park for the first seven weeks
has increased by around 11% to $5.1m (2003: $4.6m).
A new record of $6.2m was established in the week of
the New Year's Day public holiday. With the introduction
of a further 220 VLTs into the existing building during
the first quarter of 2004, further revenue growth
should be deliverable over the coming months.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the
Board, to thank the employees of Wembley for their
continued efforts during what has been a very
challenging year for the Group. Assuming that 
shareholders vote in favour of the acquisition by MGM
and the necessary regulatory approvals are received, 
I am confident that Wembley's three businesses and
their employees will be in good hands as part of the
MGM group. 
Claes Hultman
Chairman and Chief Executive
Wembley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
_
03 04
_
Wembley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Wembley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
_
05