 Chairman's statement
|   ACCSyS TEChNoLoGIES PLC - ANNUAL REPoRT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS yEAR ENDED 31 MARCh 2011 02
Introduction
The Group has continued to undergo 
significant change during the year and, 
despite the challenges, I believe we are now 
well positioned to achieve our short and 
longer term goals.
The increasing demand for Accoya  being 
experienced resulted in our prediction that 
we will reach our maximum capacity (of 
approximately 35,000m
3
) in the next two 
to three years. As a result, part of the net 
proceeds of  28m generated from a fund-
raising completed in February 2011 is 
intended for the expansion of the Arnhem 
plant by adding a third reactor in order to 
satisfy this demand. We expect to carry 
out this expansion in stages at appropriate 
times, which will enable the Group to become 
profitable without reliance upon licence 
income. The first stage involves the creation 
of new storage facilities and the improvement 
of wood handling logistics and in this respect 
we have recently agreed in principle to the 
sale and leaseback of a portion of the land and 
all of the buildings relating to the plant which 
will enable us to progress with this expansion. 
We have made changes to the wider 
management team and achieved further 
improvements in our production processes at 
our Arnhem plant as well as reducing operating 
costs, which is evidenced by our achieving a 
23% improvement in our gross manufacturing 
margin and a reduction in operating costs of 
27%.
During the year we saw acceleration in 
demand for Accoya
 
 worldwide, resulting in 
an increase in sales of Accoya
 
 by 36% (to 
11,935m ). Taking account of the previously 
announced postponement of orders by 
Diamond Wood, the sales volumes increased 
by 62%.
We have added nine new distribution 
agreements to our global network of 
customers including in countries such as 
New Zealand, Australia and Chile making a 
total of 27 distribution, agency and supply 
agreements. our existing distributors have 
started to sell to new sub-distributors which 
present significant opportunities for us. 
We have increased our sales to all existing 
countries with the exception of sales to China 
and the South-East Asian countries covered 
by Diamond Wood.
I am pleased by the progress being made by the 
business development team demonstrated 
by an Accoya  licence option agreement 
that was entered into in January 2011 with 
a major multinational corporation. While 
detailed agreements still need to be finalised 
and due diligence completed, this marks an 
important step towards meeting our longer 
term objective of licensing the Company's 
technology.
Diamond Wood continues to work towards 
completing their required fund-raising which 
is expected to be completed in 2011. We 
received  0.4m from Diamond Wood in respect 
of licence fees due to us resulting in the partial 
reversal of the impairment recorded in last 
year's financial statements. We are continuing 
to work with Diamond Wood management to 
ensure that Accoya  can be sold into China 
and the South-East Asia region ahead of the 
completion of their production plant.
Limited progress has been made during the 
year in respect of our second licensee Al 
Rajhi, partly due to recent unrest in Bahrain. 
however while uncertainty remains as 
to when the licence will proceed, we are 
confident it will progress and look forward to 
continuing to work with Al Rajhi in respect of 
their planning and other activities.
Following the unveiling of Medite Tricoya  
at the Ecobuild exhibition in London in March 
in 2010, we have made steady progress 
with Medite, our joint development partner, 
concerning product and process development 
leading to further successful industrial 
scale production trials. The resulting tests 
and commercial analysis of the world's first 
medium density fibreboard (MDF) which 
uses our acetylation technology, confirmed 
Tricoya  to be a superior, commercially 
competitive, high performance panel suitable 
for external use.
36%
increase in sales 
(m
3
) of Accoya
 
Distribution, Agency and
Supply Agreements
2009 2010 2011
2
19
27 ChAIRMAN'S STATEMENT   | 03 ChAIRMAN'S STATEMENT   | 03
Summary of financial results
Revenue from the sales of Accoya  increased 
by 38% to  12.6m (2010:  9.1m) reflecting 
the continuing growth in demand. however, 
total revenue of  13.7m (2010:  16.7m) 
was less than the previous year as a result of 
a reduction in licence income. The reduction 
in licence income to  0.1m (2010:  6.7m) 
reflects the delays experienced by our 
licensees.
The gross manufacturing margin has improved 
from negative 27% to negative 4% as a result 
of improved efficiency and the economies of 
scale resulting from our higher sales volumes.
other operating costs have decreased by 
27% to  13.7m (2010:  18.6m) following 
continued focus to reduce costs and increase 
efficiency and value for money in all parts of 
the Company. This has included a reduction 
in staff numbers from 107 at the start of the 
financial year to 98 by 31 March 2011.
our cash balance at 31 March 2011 was 
 27.6m compared to  18.3m last year. 
however during the year there was 
significant cash out-flow of  17.8m (2010: 
 14.0m) attributable to operating activities. 
This was higher than expected as a result 
of Diamond Wood postponing their orders 
part way through the year which resulted 
in significantly higher inventory levels 
than expected. As a result we are currently 
unwinding our inventory balance and expect 
our cash out-flow to be significantly reduced 
in the forthcoming year. The overall increase 
in cash was wholly attributable to the fund-
raising completed in February 2011 which 
raised  28m net of fees. In addition we 
have also entered into a new finance facility 
secured on our trade receivables and our 
inventory which will enable us to draw down 
up to approximately  4m in the future. Accsys 
currently has no debt.
Board and management
hans Pauli joined the Board on 1 April 2010 
as Chief Financial officer and Chief operations 
officer. Primarily based in the Netherlands, 
he has made a substantial impact to the 
operations in Arnhem and has led the changes 
implemented there. Kevin Wood, our former 
Chief Finance officer, remained on the board 
as a non-executive director until 18 November 
2010.
on 30 September I took over as Chairman 
of the Board from Willy Paterson-Brown 
who also stepped down as a non-executive 
director following his years of service since 
the Company's inception in 2005.
Patrick Shanley joined the Board on 18 
November 2010 as an independent non-
executive director, bringing extensive board 
room experience in the chemicals sector. 
Patrick has taken over from me as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee.
Most recently, on 17 May 2011, Nick Meyer 
joined the board as an independent non-
executive director. Nick has significant 
experience in the timber industry including 
as a former President of the Timber Trade 
Federation of the United Kingdom.
Following these changes, I am confident 
that Accsys will benefit from the additional 
experience the Board now brings, in particular 
from the broader range of industries that the 
directors collectively have worked in.
Unveiling of Tricoya
 
 at Ecobuild Chairman's statement continued
|   ACCSyS TEChNoLoGIES PLC - ANNUAL REPoRT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS yEAR ENDED 31 MARCh 2011 04
Dividend
No final dividend is proposed in respect of 
2011. This reflects the loss we have reported 
in the last financial year together with the 
Board's decision to preserve as strong a 
balance sheet as possible while the Group 
continues to develop long term business 
opportunities.
Prospects
The fund-raising has provided us a stable 
financial position following on from the last 
two years of change, and as a result, I am 
confident that Accsys can build on the steady 
progress that has been achieved in all areas 
over the last twelve months. We are confident 
that we can build upon the progress that has 
been made despite the challenging global 
economy, in particular in the construction 
industry.
our short term plan is to continue to increase 
sales of Accoya  such that the plant is 
operating at a break-even level. The continued 
feedback we obtain from customers, 
distributors and potential licensees, as well 
as independent tests, confirms our belief 
that we offer a genuinely superior product. 
Together with further product development 
by ourselves and our partners, I am confident 
that we will continue to increase sales in the 
next few years. We expect to utilise part of the 
proceeds from the fund-raising to finance the 
expansion of the plant in order to meet this 
demand and at the same time we expect to 
move into a position of sustained profitability.
The additional sales and capacity will enable 
us to seed markets with Accoya  to create a 
demand for the licensing of our technologies 
which remains our longer term objective. 
In this respect we will continue to progress 
existing licence and option agreements as 
well as seeking to secure other opportunities.
We are very confident that Medite Tricoya  will 
play a significant part in the MDF marketplace 
and we will continue to work with Medite with 
the aim of bringing this into production.
our more stable financial position, 
strengthened operational and management 
team and increased global demand for our 
specialist wood products, gives us confidence 
for the future prospects of the Group.
Gordon Campbell 
Non-executive Chairman 
29 June 2011
The haven, horning, UK A Safe haven
The client's vision for this house and boathouse 
at horning on the Norfolk Broads was to provide 
an exemplary building that is sustainable and 
graceful in design, complementing and enhancing 
the setting and providing a legacy for future 
generations.
The extensive use of wood cladding and decking 
were key elements of LSI architects' design. 
however, given that  The haven' is in a flood 
zone, surrounded on three sides by water and 
constantly exposed to a high moisture content  
in the air, LSI needed to find a wood that they 
could be confident would deliver durability, 
dimensional stability and aesthetics. Accoya  
wood presented the perfect answer.
Accoya , supplied by International Timber, was 
used for cladding and decking. The glue laminated 
Accoya  wood for the curved rear screen was 
manufactured by Newnham & Abel Ltd and 
hand finished with a protective merbau-coloured 
coating from WoodGuard by Guard Industrie. The 
same finish was factory applied to the cladding.
CASE STUDy oNE - UNITED KINGDoM   | 05