 11
Compliance
As an AIM-listed company, William Ransom & Son plc
is not required to comply with the corporate governance
principles contained in the Combined Code, however the
Company has regard to these principles and its activities
in the area of corporate governance are discussed in
the Board's report on corporate governance below.
The Company has not complied with the Code as
regards the separation of the roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive. The role of Chairman and Chief
Executive was combined. The Company recognises
that in the medium term, as the business continues 
to expand, the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive
will need to be separated. 
The Board
Biographical details of all directors are set out on page
20. The Board considers C J Clark and T J W Bridge to
be independent non-executive directors.
The executive directors are responsible for day-to-day
operational matters and for implementing the strategy
set by the Board. They, and senior divisional managers,
meet every month in a Board-style format. The functions
of these meetings include deciding pay policy, setting the
Company's annual budget and monitoring performance
against it and proposing initiatives to the Board designed
to meet the Company's strategic objectives. 
Corporate risks are identified and reviewed at 
each meeting.
The Board's principal task is to set the Company's
strategy, which is devised to deliver optimum value for
shareholders. Other matters reserved for decision by
the full Board include such issues as the approval of
the annual report and accounts, authorisation of all
business acquisitions and disposals, approval of the
annual budget, sanction of all major capital expenditure,
the raising of equity or debt finance, investor relations
and environmental policy. A pack of information, including
the up-to-date financial position of the Company, is
distributed to all Board members at least four days in
advance of all Board meetings, which are held monthly.
Procedures are in place to enable directors to take
appropriate independent professional advice at the
Company's expense if that is necessary for the
furtherance of their duties, and they have access to
the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board is committed to putting a process in place
for training new directors in their legal and fiduciary
duties if and when it is required. 
The Articles of Association require one third of the
Board to retire by rotation each year and for those
directors appointed during the year to stand for 
re-election at the following annual general meeting.
10
Corporate governance
Nomination committee
The Board as a whole undertakes the duties of the
nomination committee.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee consists of C J Clark and
T J W Bridge, both of whom are non-executive directors.
W J N Nabarro also served on the remuneration committee
during the year . In determining the policy for the executive
directors the committee has given due consideration
to the Combined Code. The remuneration packages
are designed to attract, retain and motivate executive
directors of the required calibre. The committee reviews
the appropriateness of all aspects of directors' pay and
benefits by taking into account remuneration packages
of similar-sized companies and having access to relevant
remuneration surveys.
Remuneration report
Directors are paid salaries. In addition, the executive
directors participate in a bonus scheme related to both
Company and personal performance. 
In addition to these bonus arrangements, the
Company operates an approved share option scheme
in which executive directors participate. The Company
also has a Long Term Incentive Plan ( LTIP'), the
performance conditions of which are directly linked to
total shareholder returns. The executive directors are
eligible to participate in the LTIP. The Board believes
that in accordance with the best practice provisions,
this approach aligns the interests of shareholders and
executive directors.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is
determined by the Board as a whole, with the exception
of the director concerned. 
Full details of directors' remuneration, shareholdings,
share options and awards under the LTIP are shown
on page 19 and in note 4 on page 31.
C J Clark does not have a contract for services. T J W
Bridge has a three year fixed term contract for services.
The notice period is one year.
Accountability and audit
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the Company's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness whilst the role of management is to
implement Board policies on risk management and
control. It should be recognised that the Company's
system of internal control is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the
Company's business objectives and can only provide
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company
which has been in place during the year and up to the
date of the approval of its annual report. This process
is regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and
the Board and accords with the internal control guidance
prepared for directors by the Turnbull Committee. 
The Company operates a series of controls and 
the key procedures, which are designed to provide
effective internal control, are as follows.
  A clearly defined organisational structure with the
appropriate delegation of authority to operational
management.
  A comprehensive annual planning and budgeting
process, requiring Executive Committee and Board
approval, reviewed and revised on a regular basis.
  Management information systems to monitor
financial performance and other operating statistics,
with a monthly review of actual against budget.
  All aspects of internal control are considered 
and monitored by the Board of Directors. Where
circumstances dictate, procedures are instigated
with the support of suitably qualified external
assistance for subsequent Board review and action. 
The Company does not have an internal audit function.
However, the Board periodically reviews the need for
such a function. The current conclusion of the Board is
that this is not necessary given the scale of activities. 
William Ransom & Son plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 William Ransom & Son plc 13
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation during the 
year and this process will continue annually. 
Audit committee
The audit committee consists of the Chairman, 
C J Clark, a non-executive director, and T J W Bridge,
a non-executive director. W J N Nabarro also served
on the audit committee during the year. Its purpose is
to consider any matters raised by the external auditors
in connection with their work and findings, to review
the scope and cost effectiveness of the audit, the
independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors. It meets at least twice a year.
Shareholder relationships
The objective of the Board is to create increased
shareholder value by growing the business in a way
that delivers sustainable improvement in earnings
over the medium and long term.
The Board regards the annual general meeting as 
an important opportunity to communicate with private
investors in particular. Directors make themselves
available to shareholders both before and after the
annual general meeting and on an ad hoc basis
subject to normal disclosure rules.
12
The directors have pleasure in submitting herewith 
the ninety third annual report and the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Principal activities
The Company's principal activity is the supply of
branded medicines, vitamins and food supplements,
the manufacture of pharmaceutical products and the
extraction of plant material for the healthcare, food
and beverage industries.
Business review and 
future developments
A review of the development of the Company's
business during the year ended 31 March 2006 and 
of its future prospects is contained in the Operating
and Financial Review on page 06.
Profits
The Company made a profit before taxation of
 1,526,000 (2005: 211,000 loss). Included in this
year's profit were exceptional manufacturing costs
totalling  607,000 and the partial write back of a
provision for a bad debt of  80,000. The profit 
after taxation was  746,000 (2005: 158,000 loss).
Total retained profits carried forward at 31 March 2006
amounted to  6,745,000 (2005: 7,260,000 restated).
Dividends 
The directors have recommended a final dividend of
1.10p per share (2005:1.00p) payable on 2 October 2006
to shareholders on the register at close of business on
1 September 2006. The total dividend for the year,
including the interim dividend of 0.50p per share
(2005:0.50p) paid on 11 January 2006, amounts 
to 1.60p per share (2005:1.50p per share).
Principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Company
The Company's sales of its own consumer healthcare
products, and its manufacture of them for third parties,
means that it is exposed to general retail market
conditions where they may apply to the natural
healthcare market. The Company's successful efforts
to develop export markets reduces the reliance on UK
retail sales growth. The recent acquisition of Optima
Health and Nutrition has also broadened the Company's
consumer product range and customer base significantly
and the Board believes that risk has been reduced
accordingly. Some of the Company's branded products,
such as its glucosamine range, are subject to high levels
of competition, particularly from lower-priced competitors
of unproven quality. The Company's response to this
on-going market risk is to ensure high quality sources
of supply, to continue new product innovation and to
maintain high levels of promotional and educational
activity to make practitioners, consumers and retailers
aware of the relative benefits of the Company's products.
William Ransom & Son plc Annual Report 2006
Directors' report
Annual Report 2006 William Ransom & Son plc