 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013/14
5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
A DIFFICULT YEAR AND 
A STRATEGIC SHIFT
Chairman's review
Over the past year, the grocery market has remained challenging. 
Consumers have had to deal with difficult economic conditions and 
many have been constrained financially. They have had to make trade 
offs in their spending, doing this through their choice of format, choice of 
products or simply buying less food. This was reflected in market growth 
slowing in the final quarter of the year.
In this environment the discount sector has performed strongly, driving 
much of the market growth. We believe that, unlike previous cycles, its 
performance is structural rather than cyclical. The rest of the market has 
been working hard to counter this threat, with particular emphasis on 
loyalty programmes and personalised couponing, areas in which Morrisons 
has not been able to compete effectively fully to date due to outdated 
IT infrastructure and systems. 
Whilst these factors, and the fact that we do not yet have a meaningful 
presence in online and convenience, the two fastest growing channels 
in the grocery market, have clearly held us back, the overall performance 
of our core business has been disappointing. We have committed to 
address this through a significant and sustained investment in our 
proposition that underpins our determination to offer the best value, 
price and quality for our customers. We will reset the profit base of the 
business to deliver this. Details of our investment plans are set out on 
pages 24 to 26.
We have also described our plans to increase value elsewhere in the 
business in our financial strategy on page 9.
I am pleased to report that we have made considerable progress in 
advancing the strategic initiatives that we set out at the beginning of 
the year and which are laying the foundation for the long term future 
of our business. In particular, and over a very short timeframe, we have 
successfully launched our own innovative, online food proposition 
which will be available to half of UK households by the end of the current 
financial year. We have also made considerable progress in developing 
our convenience network and now have over 100 M locals with dedicated 
distribution centres serving the North West as well as London and the 
South East. 
The Board's confirmation of a 10% increase in the dividend for the 
year, in line with its stated target, and its commitment to a minimum 
5% increase in 2014/15 demonstrates its confidence in the future of 
the business. 
RESULTS
In the year, total turnover of  17.7bn was down 2% (2012/13:  18.1bn). 
When compared to prior year the underlying operating margin of 4.9% fell 
by 40bps. This increased to 50bps after adjusting for the impact of a lower 
proportion of fuel sales in the mix this year.
Net finance costs of  82m increased by  12m over the prior period as 
a result of a planned increase in net debt to accommodate our peak 
investment of capital expenditure. 
Underlying profit is calculated after removing property disposals, new 
business development costs, non-recurring exceptional costs and IAS19 
pension interest. Underlying operating profit of  865m fell by 11% when 
compared to the prior year, with underlying profit before tax of  785m, 
down by 13%. 
Sir Ian Gibson
Chairman
STRUCTURAL CHANGE 
FOR SUPERMARKETS 
MEANS A STRATEGIC 
SHIFT FOR MORRISONS. Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013/14 Strategic report
6
Chairman's review
A DIFFICULT YEAR AND A STRATEGIC SHIFT 
CONTINUED
Supporting the
LOCAL
Community
The Group's net debt grew, as planned, during the period, to  2,817m, 
(2012/13:  2,181m). Gearing increased to 60%, which has been impacted 
by the write down of assets. We anticipate that we will generate 
significant free cash flow in 2014/15 and that net debt will fall during 
the year to around  2.4bn -  2.5bn.
The Group continues to maintain a strong balance sheet in line with 
our stated principles. This is securely financed by a number of long 
dated bonds and by revolving credit facilities of  1,350m with our banks 
of which  775m remained undrawn at the end of the year. In June 2013 
we increased the funds available to the Group and further improved the 
maturity profile of our borrowings, by issuing a  700m Euro bond with 
institutional investors, repayable in 2020. 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) is a key performance measure for 
the Group and underpins our focus on capital discipline. 2013/14 marked 
a peak year of investment for the business and, as a result, ROCE fell to 
8.4% after the effect of non-recurring exceptional costs (2012/13: 9.6%). 
We are committed to delivering improved shareholder returns over time. 
INDUSTRY RECOGNITION
Morrisons is committed to providing its customers with great fresh 
products from sustainable sources, backed by unrivalled service from 
our own in-store colleagues with craft skills. We are delighted that this 
has again been recognised with a number of prestigious industry awards. 
These include:  Most sustainable retailer of the year',  Seafood retailer 
of the year' and  Fresh produce retailer of the year' at the 2013 Retail 
Industry Awards and BitC's European CSR Award. Our support for our 
colleagues in making Morrisons a great place to work has been recognised 
by the award of  Employer of the year', for the fourth consecutive year, 
at the Grocer Gold Awards 2013.
COMMUNITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
How we operate as a business is very important to us. We care about where 
our products come from, the people that make them and how products 
are bought, made, moved and sold. Our customers expect us to trade 
responsibly and we work within the communities in which we operate, 
to manage resources carefully whilst maintaining ethical standards.
We have a number of key programmes which support our commitment. 
These include the Morrisons farming programme, the objective of which 
is to work closely with the UK farming supply base to ensure that it's fit 
for the future; our Ethical Trading Code, which is incorporated into our 
terms and conditions with suppliers and includes payment of a living 
wage, non-excessive working hours and a safe working environment; 
GSCOP compliance; and our  Great Taste, Less Waste' campaign focusing 
on consumer food waste.
OUR COLLEAGUES 
Our industry awards were only achieved through the dedication, hard 
work and commitment to the cause of our 125,000 colleagues across 
the business who every day seek to delight the nearly 12m customers on 
average who visit our stores each week. I am pleased that their efforts, in 
what has been a challenging year for the business, have enabled them to 
share a profit share pool of  28m this year. 
Colleagues are key to being able to fulfil our promises and providing 
the best service to our customers. We believe in building a healthy, 
high-performance culture and providing equal opportunities for all. 
On behalf of the Board I wish to thank every one of our colleagues 
for their dedication, professionalism, service and commitment to our 
business throughout the year.
Sir Ian Gibson
Chairman
RESULTS - CONTINUED
Exceptional non-recurring costs of  903m were charged in the year 
including  163m in relation to Kiddicare, a business which is no longer 
strategic. We will look to sell this business in 2014.  319m relates to 
elements of our store pipeline. Following a reassessment of their potential 
to meet our required investment criteria we have impaired  90m of 
costs to date and provided for  229m of further costs. A charge of  379m 
has been incurred in relation to trading stores, comprising of  330m of 
impairment and  49m of onerous lease provisions.
A further cut in the rate of corporation tax and the positive impact of the 
Group's equity retirement programme partly helped to offset the impact 
of the reduction in underlying earnings on earnings per share (EPS). 
Underlying basic EPS decreased by 8% to 25.2p (2012/13: 27.3p) with 
statutory basic earnings per share of (10.2)p (2012/13: 26.7p).
As planned, capital expenditure and investments, including joint ventures, 
rose slightly to  1,086m, an increase of  70m (7%) over prior year. 
This included capital relating to the launch of our online food operation, 
in conjunction with Ocado. The programme also reflected an acceleration 
in our convenience store opening programme, further expansion of our 
vertical integration capacity and the conclusion of the major phase of our 
six year IT systems development project.
We are committed to capital discipline. New core grocery space will 
reduce, our IT infrastructure is close to completion and our online food 
business is now operational, therefore 2013/14 marks the peak of our 
capital investment. In 2014/15 we expect capital expenditure to reduce 
by around 50% to  550m. Thereafter we expect it to be maintained at 
a level of  400m annually. 
During the year we concluded the  1bn equity retirement programme 
we launched in 2011 with a final investment of  53m. 