 50,341* 204,133
38,685 166,558
15,094 119,294
12,516 75,735
01
Wolfson Microelectronics plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
We are pleased to report that the Group continued to
grow during 2006 in spite of the general slowdown in
the semiconductor market late in the year. Revenues
again exhibited a seasonal pattern, with higher figures
in the second half of the year as a result of demand for
our customers' products peaking around the winter
holiday period. While we consolidated our position as 
a leading provider of high performance audio and
imaging semiconductors to many of the world's top
consumer electronic brands, total demand for our
products ended the year weaker than anticipated. 
In response to the challenging market conditions, 
costs have been appropriately contained and inventory
controlled, resulting in a net margin in line with our long
term business model. However, a solid pipeline of new
Wolfson products and the continued growth of new
consumer electronic devices give us real confidence
heading into 2007.
Market trends
The Digital Revolution is all around us. The changing patterns of
media access through the web and the personalisation of
entertainment systems are expanding the market for new and more
sophisticated digital consumer products. The inexorable progress
of semiconductor technology allows such products to be created,
affecting the lives of ever more consumers. Mainstream users are
now demanding higher functionality, higher performance quality,
and greater portability based on improved battery life and smaller
physical size. For instance, convergence of communications
technology with entertainment facilities is providing a range of
sophisticated mobile phones which also incorporate music playing
with video features. In other ways, phones are being combined with
email capability as well as satellite navigation to provide smart
phones invaluable to business. Such developments continue to fuel
demand for higher performance mixed-signal semiconductor
products, and Wolfson is strategically positioned at the heart of this
exciting market.
Product development
Innovative products are at the core of Wolfson's business. Our
mixed-signal chips combine both digital and analogue circuitry on
the same piece of silicon to provide the essential interface between
the real world and the digital electronic processors. Integrating more
mixed-signal functionality onto a single chip adds to the capability
of the end product while reducing its cost. We are developing a
number of new technologies to provide more integrated functions,
most notably a family of integrated sound and power management
products which provide complete solutions for the mixed-signal
requirements of many portable applications. These developments
bring with them important economic advantages such as product
differentiation and higher selling prices, but such products also take
longer to develop and require higher levels of investment. Although
we released fewer new products to market in 2006 than in 2005,
Letter from the Chairman and CEO
Quarterly revenue and profit before tax ($000)
*
Before non-recurring charge
Annual revenue and profit before tax ($000)
*
Before non-recurring charge
Q105 Q205 Q305 Q405 Q106 Q206 Q306 Q406 2003 2004 2005 2006
11,835 52,585
16,475* 57,972
11,500 47,678
10,531 45,898
18,399 61,337
11,136 41,471
5,757 33,381
3,393 30,369
Revenue
Profit before tax
Revenue
Profit before tax
Annual Report 06-07_08.qxp6 o_p  26/2/07  09:18  Page 1 02 Letter from the Chairman and CEO
Wolfson Microelectronics plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
they provide the potential for much higher return. To mitigate the
increased risk inherent in such complex devices, we have also
improved our development methodologies to ensure timely launch
of new products to meet market opportunities. Customers have
been quick to adopt many of these new solutions, and international
media critics recently voted one of our latest CODECs product of
the year. The Company was also recognised widely within the UK
business community and among its international peers in the
Fabless Semiconductor Association for its outstanding financial
and management performance .
People
There has been significant development in the senior management
of the Company towards the end of the year. As I, David Milne,
reach 65 years in 2007, I announced that I would stand down as
CEO but look forward to continuing to be an active member of the
Board. Having been the CEO since founding the Company in 1984,
it has been a privilege to be a part of the growth of a highly
profitable semiconductor company with such an international
presence and prominent customer base. To take the Company to
the next level of performance and scale, the Board is delighted with
the appointment of Dave Shrigley, an experienced executive from
the semiconductor industry, who will take over as CEO from March
2007. Dave will be based in Edinburgh, and we have been working
together since early December on the transition process to ensure
a smooth handover. Spending the majority of his career at Intel,
Dave held several senior management positions, including VP and
General Manager of Asia Pacific, where he grew that region more
than ten fold over six years to $2bn in revenues. His other Intel
roles included responsibility for major accounts and ultimately
corporate marketing, reporting to CEO Andy Grove. We welcome
Dave to the team and look forward to working with him in the future
development of the business.
We have expanded our technical sales coverage in the main
centres of customer concentration and significantly strengthened
our team with the appointment of Alistair Banham as Senior Vice
President of Worldwide Sales. His experience of international
account management with a number of global companies will be
invaluable to the continued development of the key customer base.
New product definition remains at the heart of Wolfson's success.
Only by anticipating industry trends and working closely with
customers can we ensure the right products are developed to
meet future market requirements. The appointment of Peter Frith
to the position of CTO during the year broadens his role in
influencing the technical development of the Company in support
of new product definition. He has played a key part in leading the
technical specification of new products and the introduction of
new technologies.
Following George Elliott's resignation, which takes effect from 28
February 2007, we are also pleased to welcome Mark Cubitt to the
post of CFO. Scottish CFO of the Year in 2005 and most recently
with the international engineering company Jacobs Engineering,
Mark joins the Company with a wealth of financial and city
experience and we welcome him also to the management team.
People are the Group's key asset and we have continued to build
the outstanding Wolfson team. Our foundation - engineering
capability - has been strengthened globally and we believe we
have one of the finest mixed-signal engineering teams in the world.
 Wolfson has continued to grow and consolidate its position as a leading
supplier of high performance mixed-signal chips, despite the recent general
semiconductor market slowdown.' John Carey Chairman
Annual Report 06-07_08.qxp6 o_p  26/2/07  09:18  Page 2 Wolfson Microelectronics plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The Wolfson brand
Audio is the key interface to more and more digital consumer
products, which are increasingly differentiated by their sound
quality. Voice, music and video are essential features today, and
our customers rely on crisp, clear signals to provide the best user
experience. Wolfson, through its focus on providing hi-fi quality in
its chips has established an internationally recognised brand name
for its audio products, for both home and portable applications. 
As the Company introduces additional technologies and addresses
new markets, we will continue to differentiate our products by
innovation and quality, anticipating and serving our customers'
requirements for excellence and performance.
Looking forward
In spite of the challenging market conditions that affected Q4
revenues, Wolfson is well positioned for 2007, reflecting its good
design momentum and strategic focus on growing digital
consumer electronic markets. For the first quarter, revenues will be
impacted by seasonality, particularly in some key applications as
well as an ongoing inventory correction in the global consumer
electronics markets. 
Looking further into 2007, the Company expects quarter on quarter
revenue growth to commence from the second quarter driven by
new product launches, an improvement in the inventory cycle and
Wolfson's strong design win position. Consequently, the Company
looks forward to delivering further growth for the year. 
The quarterly financial reporting introduced by the Company last
year, we believe, provides the best form of communication with
shareholders to allow them to understand and track the Company's
ongoing prospects and performance.
We are continuing to focus on providing our customers with market
leading chips with which they can differentiate their end products.
Where appropriate we are looking to acquire technology (such as
the acquisition in January 2007 of Oligon, a developer of
microelectronic mechanical technology) to ensure timely new
product introductions. In 2007, we aim to broaden further our
customer relationships through the excellence of our technical
support and the compelling solutions provided by our new product
introductions. We believe we have the infrastructure in place and
have the management to take the Company through the next stage
of development.
We thank you for your support.
John Carey David Milne
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
30 January 2007
 The on-going digital revolution continues to fuel demand for Wolfson's
innovative new products and we look forward to delivering further growth 
in 2007.' David Milne CEO
Letter from the Chairman and CEO 03
Annual Report 06-07_08.qxp6 o_p  26/2/07  09:18  Page 3