 Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 8
Chairman's statement
In summary
 Headline earnings per share of 
181.8 pence, 8.0% ahead of last year.
 Increased total ordinary dividend 
to 66 pence (2011/12: 60 pence).
 Special dividend of  348 million paid 
and further  300 million proposed.
 Further strengthening of the Board 
with two Non Executive Directors 
appointed in the year.
Results and strategy
I am delighted to report another good 
year for Wolseley with like-for-like revenue 
growth of 2.9 per cent and a strong 
performance in trading profit, up nearly 
11 per cent. The trading margin of 5.6 per 
cent was 0.3 per cent ahead of last year 
(2011/12: 5.3 per cent). 
Our US business is generating excellent 
growth and we continue to outperform 
the market in our principal businesses. 
The gains from ongoing efficiencies have 
been reinvested to drive future growth. 
We have delivered a further improvement 
in the trading margin to 7.3 per cent in the 
USA which has taken us above the historic 
peak margin achieved in 2007. In Canada, 
whilst residential markets have cooled in 
the past 12 months, we have still delivered 
profit growth in the year. 
The fundamentals of our businesses in 
Europe are broadly solid; however in some 
regions economic conditions have become 
increasingly challenging through the year. 
At the start of the year we announced a 
series of measures to improve operational 
efficiency with a particular focus on 
lowering operating costs to make our 
businesses more competitive for the 
future. This included action to improve the 
competitiveness of our building materials 
business in France and lowering its cost to 
serve, which we are confident will deliver 
improved returns in the long term. You can 
read about these actions in the Chief 
Executive's review.
Finally, we have delivered another year 
of strong cash flow, which is enabling 
us to invest in the business and reward 
shareholders. During the year we have 
also made a number of value-creating 
in-fill acquisitions, which are making a 
good contribution to the Group.
Progress on strategy
Our strategy is unchanged and our core 
focus remains on delivering shareholder 
value from the significant opportunity in 
construction distribution. The structural 
growth opportunity in our geographical 
markets is large and whilst organic growth 
remains the priority, we will continue to 
supplement this with in-fill acquisitions. 
At the same time we also continue to 
drive cost efficiency, which underpins our 
expectation of further improvement in the 
operating margin over the medium term.
We remain very positive 
about our ability to grow 
the business, capitalising 
on the significant 
opportunities to 
outperform our markets 
over the long term, while 
at the same time 
improving returns.  Overview
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9
Executing our strategy has been an 
important theme in 2012/13. I am 
particularly proud of the work undertaken 
by Ian Meakins, our Chief Executive, 
and his team on evolving our business 
models to drive benefits of scale and to 
address customer needs. We have made 
great strides this year in sharpening our 
customer segmentation and continuing to 
invest in a full multi-channel approach while 
moving to a more systematically managed 
branch network. In particular this year we 
continue to develop our e-business offering 
both to our traditional trade segments but 
also expanding our business into reaching 
consumers online. Overall we remain 
very positive about our ability to grow the 
business, capitalising on the significant 
opportunities to outperform our markets 
over the long term, while at the same time 
as improving returns.
Commitment to corporate 
responsibility
Corporate responsibility underpins the 
sustainability of our business and, as 
such, is an integral part of achieving our 
overall strategy. The Board believes that 
the integration of corporate responsibility 
across the Group and the inclusion of 
broader social and environmental issues 
into our decision-making processes will 
help Wolseley to achieve our business 
goals, act as a building block for growth 
in shareholder value and benefit the 
communities in which we operate. As such, 
the Board remains fully committed to this 
important aspect of how we operate. 
We are now in our fourth year of measuring 
our progress and our drive for continuous 
improvement is set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report on 
pages 48 to 63.
Shareholder returns 
Our commitment to creating shareholder 
value remains strong. In line with our 
progressive dividend policy, this year the 
Board is proposing a final dividend of 
44 pence per share (2011/12: 40 pence 
per share) for payment on 2 December 
2013 to shareholders on the register on 
11 October 2013. This brings the total 
ordinary dividend for the year to 66 pence 
per share (2011/12: 60 pence per share), 
which is a year-on-year increase of 
10 per cent.
With the confidence we have in our 
future performance and our current 
investment requirements, we remain 
committed to returning surplus cash flow 
to shareholders above and beyond that 
required to fund organic growth and in-fill 
acquisitions. Early in the year we took 
the decision to drive greater efficiency 
into the balance sheet through a return of 
capital and associated share consolidation 
of 122 pence per share or  348 million, 
by way of a special dividend paid on 
31 December 2012.
We are proposing a further special 
dividend to shareholders of 
 300 million, which is expected to be 
paid in December. The special dividend 
and share consolidation will be subject 
to shareholder approval at the AGM on 
26 November 2013.
Our balance sheet remains very strong and 
the Group will continue to target net debt 
in the range of 1x to 2x EBITDA, consistent 
with investment grade credit metrics.
The Board
As Chairman, I seek to ensure that the 
Board is as effective as possible and 
I believe strongly that this is the case. 
Over the past two years I, alongside 
my colleagues on the Nominations 
Committee, have sought to ensure that 
the right balance of skills, experience, 
capabilities, independence, diversity 
and knowledge of the Company are 
reflected on the Board. During the year 
we have further strengthened the Board 
and on 1 January 2013 Pilar L pez and 
Alan Murray joined the Company as Non 
Executive Directors. Pilar is Chief Financial 
Officer of Telef nica Europe. Alan was 
Chief Executive of Hanson plc between 
2002 and 2007. Both Directors have joined 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees of the Board.
In July we announced that Andrew Duff, 
Wolseley's Senior Independent Director, 
would be stepping down at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting after nine years 
of service with the Company. I would 
like to thank Andrew for his outstanding 
contribution to Wolseley and wish him 
the very best for the future. Andrew's 
responsibilities as Remuneration 
Committee Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director have now been 
assumed by Alan Murray. We are fortunate 
to have a Non Executive Director of the 
calibre of Alan Murray to succeed Andrew.
Leadership and people
Looking to the future, as well as an 
experienced and diverse Board, we place 
a great deal of emphasis on the quality 
and diversity of our leadership teams 
across the Group. We have worked 
hard to put in place effective succession 
and development programmes and 
the excellent results we continue to 
achieve are a testament to this effort. 
Talent management continues to be 
a key area of focus for both the Board 
and myself, given my strong belief that 
the stability and effectiveness of our 
management teams across the Group 
is a key ingredient of our success.
Our strong results this year are of course a 
reflection of the quality of our people across 
the world from the senior management to 
our teams in the business units. On behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank all of my 
Wolseley colleagues for their continued 
contribution and commitment to our 
customers and our values.
In the longer term, we remain very 
positive about the opportunities to grow 
the business and we are well positioned 
to capitalise on the significant structural 
growth potential in our markets.
Gareth Davis  
Chairman Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10
Listening to our customers
I want great service every time I deal with you
Having the best people is key to 
giving our customers exceptional 
service every day. The UK is 
continuing to work hard to boost 
employee engagement levels. This is 
achieved through measuring staff 
engagement on a regular basis and 
making improvements to working 
environments and training to ensure 
our front line staff are engaged and 
deliver the best possible service to 
customers. In 2013, Wolseley UK's 
average employee engagement score 
is now at the highest level since the 
survey started in 2005, despite a 
challenging trading environment. 
This score ranks in the top quartile 
of the Employee Engagement Index 
Benchmark according to Harris 
Interactive, one of the world's largest 
market research firms who carry 
out the surveys for the UK business. 
Their engagement benchmark 
is compiled from more than 100 
organisations surveyed. I want a broad range of expertise that is always available
Facilities Maintenance (FM ) 
is a large and attractive segment 
for our US business and has 
tremendous opportunities for 
growth. The addressable FM market 
is estimated at about  13 billion and is 
fragmented. Our strategy is to target 
purchasing and facility managers 
in a variety of sectors with a unique 
blend of call centre support and 
e-business solutions with a broad 
SKU range. The business operates 
a unique business model using call 
centres staffed with highly-trained 
experts who have knowledge of the 
major categories to suit the needs 
of FM customers including: heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning 
(HVAC ); lighting; electrical; pipes, 
valves and fittings (PVF ); and 
plumbing. Customers are also able to 
order online, see up-to-date product 
availability and use web tools to 
automate frequent purchases and 
review their account information. 
Overview
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11