 10 Work Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chairman's statement
Work Group delivered a strong performance
in 2006. We continued to demonstrate our
ability to grow our business substantially with
net fee income (gross profit) increasing by
49% to  13.6m (2005:  9.1m) and operating 
profit before goodwill amortisation (EBITA) 
up 81% to  2.5m (2005:  1.4m). Similarly ,
operating profit increased 80% to  2.0m
(2005:  1.1m). On a pro forma basis* EBITA
increased by 32% over 2005, emphasising 
the underlying organic growth potential 
of the Group. 
During the year we maintained good growth
across all three operating divisions, achieving
increases in both profit and margins. 2006 was
the first full year contribution from Armstrong
Craven, which we acquired in October 2005.
Armstrong Craven is proving to be particularly
successful, driven by its compelling direct
search proposition. It provides employers
with direct access to recruitment researchers 
and is a direct alternative to executive search -
it has materially strengthened our  direct
resourcing' offer . 
During 2006 we continued to actively 
move Work Group away from lower margin 
media-based income and enjoyed a 39% rise
in fee based income to  3.2m (2005:  2.3m).
We see this trend continuing.
In March 2006 the company listed on AIM.
From the net funds raised of  6.2m we were
able to repay the debt in the company and
strengthen the balance sheet. This gives 
us greater flexibility to take advantage of
acquisition opportunities and support our
future growth and development.
The acquisition of RCC in November 2006
added significant critical mass to our regional
operations and positions us well for growth in
our regional communications business during
2007 as we build a substantial hub operation
in the North West.
Our market
The war for talent continues to be a major
focus and challenge for the majority of
employers. According to research from 
the CIPD, in 2005 (the latest available data)
82% of employers reported recruitment
difficulties, while 69% experienced retention
problems. Labour turnover in the private
sector also continued to rise: in 2005 it was
22.9%, a level which is widely predicted 
to rise when 2006 figures are published.
Consequently , employers are beginning to
realise that continually channelling their
recruitment budgets into traditional
head-hunter and agency fees serves only 
to perpetuate the long-standing problem
of the  jobs merry-go-round'.
Strategy
Increasingly , employers are realising that
investing in the acquisition and development
of talent is a top priority . Work Group creates
bespoke and exclusive candidate streams 
and databases for employers. This delivers
both cost and quality benefits and enables
employers to utilise more fully the benefits 
of the internet.
Work Group aims to create growth and 
value through organic developments 
as well as through strategic acquisitions. 
We remain actively engaged in identifying
potential acquisitions, however , we will
continue to be highly selective and will 
only make acquisitions which will enhance
both our service range for clients and 
earnings for shareholders.
Positioning
The Group has a wide range of services 
which we market under the banner  helping
employers find and keep the people they
need'. We provide HR Consulting Services 
to our clients in, principally , the  talent
acquisition and talent development' sphere,
reflecting our role in helping employers face
up to and overcome the ever increasing
challenges of attracting, developing and
retaining talent.
Simon Howard
Chairman
Good growth across all divisions
* Assuming the acquisition of Armstrong Craven 
on 1 January 2005 and disregarding the results of 
The Recruitment Communications Company (RCC)
acquired in November 2006. 11 Work Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Growth and value through organic development 
and strategic acquisition
For reporting purposes, we have 
re-branded two of our three divisions 
to more accurately reflect their positioning.
 Adcomms' has been renamed  Employer
Marketing', reflecting the reduced and
reducing reliance on advertising and an
increasing focus on marketing and
communication activities, many of which 
are web-based.  Managed Resourcing' 
has been renamed  Recruitment Process
Outsourcing (RPO)' as this is increasingly
becoming the more widely accepted 
generic term for these activities.  Executive
Research' remains unchanged.
These changes to terminology do not 
in any way reflect a change of direction but
reflect a desire to describe more accurately
the nature of our activities and emphasise 
the scope of the opportunities we continue 
to exploit.
In summary , there are three streams 
of income or divisions referred to above. 
We have a management structure that 
is organised into four operating units 
(Executive Research, RPO, Work London 
and Work Regions) which essentially splits
Employer Marketing between Work 
London and Work Regions.
Our clients
At the heart of our business are our clients 
and our people. Across the Group we work 
for a wide selection of blue chip employers
with whom we are building long term, deep
relationships, whilst also continuing to win
new clients. Our clients tell us that they do 
not want the traditional recruitment company
approach, but prefer instead to work with 
a partner who will help solve their talent
acquisition and retention challenges. Every
one of our client service teams is focused 
on sound account management which is 
built on an ethos of meeting and exceeding
expectations - in short, we deliver . Across 
the Group in 2006, disregarding the impact 
of RCC, 82% of net fee income was delivered
by existing clients.
During 2006 we had some notable client wins
including the employer marketing contract 
for Network Rail, who will become a top 
five Group client in 2007, and winning the
three year global campus marketing contract
for JPMorgan against global competition. 
We also retained our second largest Group
client, the Environment Agency , following 
a competitive review and were awarded a 
new four year contract.
We have a wide spread of clients across all
sectors and so are not over-reliant on either
any single client or any single industry . At 
the beginning of 2007 we have invested in
building our business development resources
and each division now has its own dedicated
telemarketing and new business teams.
Our people
Ultimately any service business is only as 
good as its people and, as we are at the
forefront of helping employers win the war 
for talent, we are acutely aware of why it is
important, and what it takes, to be a good
employer ourselves. 
No employer can ever claim to be perfect, 
but we believe we have attracted and
continue to retain some of the very best
talent. We try to create an environment where
talent can thrive and will always strive to be 
a destination employer , thus continuing 
to attract and develop enthusiastic,
committed and hardworking people.
At the end of 2006, the team numbered 
234 people (2005: 189) working across 
all functions in our seven UK offices. 
We are investing in our client-facing and 
business development teams and are also
strengthening our support functions helping
to underpin the company' s future growth. Dividend
As a result of the strong trading performance
and sound cash position, demonstrated 
by these full year results, the Board are
proposing a maiden final dividend for the 
full year of 0.4p per share. 
Current trading and outlook 
In 2006 Work Group delivered ahead of
expectations. We have ambitious plans 
for 2007 and we look forward to continuing 
to deliver on our highly focused buy and
build strategy . In the first two months of the
year , overall trading has been in line with
those plans and we remain confident of 
again delivering further profitable growth 
and reporting further progress in 2007 
and beyond.
Simon Howard
Chairman
12 Work Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
We have attracted and retained 
some of the very best talent
Chairman's statement continued
US office
During the second quarter of 2007 the 
Group will be opening an office in New Y ork.
This development follows the appointment 
of Work Group to handle the global campus
marketing activities for JPMorgan. More
recently we have also won US based 
work for Chase, the retail banking arm of
JPMorgan Chase. In addition, Armstrong
Craven has an active client base in the US
which we believe we can grow significantly
with a local presence. We expect this
operation to make a positive bottom line
contribution from 2008.
Management
As from 1 January 2007, Sue Craven, the
founder and previous Managing Director 
of Armstrong Craven, was promoted to 
the main Work Group board in the role 
of Group Managing Director . Sue is now
responsible for the Work London and 
Work Resourcing business units and will
oversee the establishment of the US office. 
Steve Halford, our other Group Managing
Director , is responsible for Armstrong 
Craven, the Work regional offices and RCC. 
Sue Craven remains a director of Armstrong
Craven and continues to provide guidance
and advice to this business.
Throughout each of the divisions we have
exceptionally experienced management
teams, which we continue to strengthen.
T owards the end of 2006 a number of key
managers were promoted to join the boards
and executive teams within each division.