 Chairman's Statement
I am very pleased to report an
excellent performance by the Group in
2005. Our financial results are well
ahead of market expectations showing
significantly increased revenue and
profit, improved net profit margins, a
strengthening order book which has
increased by 15% and substantially
reduced net debt.
Our operations throughout the world
have contributed to this performance
as well as supporting our ongoing
commitment to continually improve
client care and operational efficiency.
We are seeing generally strong and
stable global markets with activity in
the UK, Sweden, the USA and the
Middle East particularly good.The
demand for our services continues to
grow and we have established an
increasingly prominent position in the
sectors in which we operate.
Financial Results and Dividends
The financial statements for 2005 have
been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS')
and consequently the comparative
figures for 2004 have been restated to
reflect this change.
Revenue for 2005, plus our share of
joint ventures and associated
undertakings, increased by 16% to
 373.9m generating adjusted profit
before interest and tax of  22.6m at a
net margin of 6.0%.Adjusted profit
before tax increased by 36% to
 20.2m. Basic and fully diluted earnings
per share were 22.8p and 21.8p
respectively.
In 2004, revenue plus our share of joint
ventures and associated undertakings
was  322.3m, adjusted profit before
interest and tax was  17.6m and net
margins were 5.5%.Adjusted basic and
fully diluted earnings per share were
15.9p and 15.4p respectively and
adjusted profit before tax was  14.8m.
Basic and fully diluted earnings per
share were 24.1p and 23.2p.
Once again we have seen strong
operating cash flows from our trading
activities of  31.9m (2004:  24.0m)
which has resulted in net debt falling to
 32.2m (2004:  45.0m). Net interest
paid of  2.4m (2004:  2.8m) is covered
more than 8 times by operating profit.
In view of these excellent financial
results and in line with our progressive
dividend policy, the directors believe
that it is appropriate to increase the
proposed final dividend to 4.0p (2004:
3.2p) giving a full year dividend of 6.4p
(2004: 5.3p) which represents an
increase for the year of 21%.
Set out in Table 3 on page 9, are the
adjustments made to the statutory
financial information relating to the
taxation of joint ventures and
associated undertakings and a pension
credit in 2004 which the directors
believe assist with understanding the
underlying performance of the Group.
Review of Activities
Our strategic focus to improve our
financial performance whilst continuing
to invest in the development and
diversification of the Group's activities
has progressed well during the year.
We continue to strengthen our
technical and managerial resource to
facilitate new business initiatives and,
importantly, to maintain and extend
our relationships with major national
and international clients.
Property
As predicted, we have seen an
improvement in the performance of
Property, our largest business segment.
The quality of opportunities in this
area, across all regions, is increasing
thanks to our acknowledged expertise
and the general stability of the markets
particularly in the UK where we are
seeing clear improvements in the
important commercial sector and in
Europe where there are also
encouraging signs. In the USA we have
also been very busy in strong markets
enabling us to deliver excellent results
and we are opening new offices in Las
Vegas and Los Angeles to respond to
client and market needs.
Our position as a leader in high-rise
building design, coupled with
unprecedented worldwide demand, has
ensured an excellent flow of new
projects.We are currently engaged on
notable schemes in the USA, UK,
Europe, Middle East and Asia and
expect the market demand to
continue, thus enhancing our
reputation and overall brand
awareness.
South Africa continues to perform
satisfactorily with well managed
growth.The economy currently enjoys
relatively stable interest and currency
rates, which has encouraged strong
local markets.We have also progressed
in Asia under new direction and
management and I consider we have
now stabilised the business in this
region.As the Group has grown on a
global platform we have won an
increasing number of international
projects in many new regions.
2 WSP Annual Report 2005
David T urner Chairman
I consider the Group to be well placed to build on this year's excellent performance. Our strategy
is aligned to delivering continued profitable growth, improving profit margins and strong cash
flows supported by the quality of our projects and the strength of our order book. T ransport & Infrastructure
T ransport & Infrastructure has seen 
good organic growth, particularly from
Sweden where we are the leading
consultant in the country's road and rail
sectors. In the UK, our joint venture with
Carillion to support the Y orkshire area
road network has performed very well
and produced strong financial results.
Elsewhere in the UK we have been less
successful in generating new business
opportunities and we have therefore
restructured the business and recruited a
new managing director who is already
producing results.We continue to deliver
transport solutions in South Africa and
we are extending our skill in this area to
other regions including Eastern Europe
and the Middle East.
Environmental
The Environmental business, which has
been mainly organically grown, has
delivered an improved all round
performance. Our global presence has
been further extended and our share of
international projects for global clients
increased.The markets in which we work
have remained strong, driven by
legislation and an increasing recognition
of the importance of the environment to
all stakeholders.
There are increasing opportunities to
leverage our global skill base to ensure
that we compete for major international
projects and we have seen a particularly
strong corporate market with global
clients who require complimentary
environmental support. I am convinced
that there are enormous market
opportunities to continue to grow our
Environmental business across a broad
range of sectors and to this end we are
presently launching WSP Energy and
WSP Waste to respond to the
requirements of these active and growing
sectors.
Staff
Our staff, that now total more than
6,000, are enormously committed to
WSP and they have worked very hard to
further the Group's reputation and
produce these excellent financial results.
My thanks to them all for their
dedication and desire to deliver the
Group's growth strategy.
We have devoted significant resource to
the recruitment and retention of staff
throughout the year.We recognise that
in a world of skill shortages we must
always be the preferred employer and I
believe our commitment and investment
in this business priority will ensure we
achieve this objective.
Board Changes
At the beginning of 2006 we announced
important changes to the Board. Stuart
McLachlan who has worked tirelessly to
build WSP Environmental into a global
business was appointed as an executive
director.
In addition, I would like to welcome
three new non executive directors.
Marisa Cassoni is a chartered accountant
who was, until recently, Group Finance
Director of the Royal Mail Group. Marisa
is a member of the Accounting Standards
Board and will chair the audit
committee. Ernest Sheavills is a chartered
surveyor who recently retired from The
Royal Bank of Scotland as Property
Development and Asset Management
Director and Mark Rollins, who is also a
chartered accountant, is presently Group
Finance Director of Senior plc.
At the end of the year Caroline Brown
retired as a non executive director due
to the pressure of her other work
commitments and I would like to thank
Caroline for her contribution to WSP
during her period as a director.
The Future
We have a clearly defined strategy to
deliver growth, which is understood and
supported by our senior management
and staff, and I am pleased with the
visibility this provides.
We continue to be focused on our
operational activities, thereby providing
the infrastructure to support sustained
improved performance and provide a
reliable platform for future organic and
acquisitive growth.
The increasing breadth of the Group's
activities throughout the world, and the
global projects on which we work is
impressive and promotes both our
reputation and brand to support our
goal of being a truly global consultant. I
expect our long term strategy of
diversification in the markets we know
to be maintained and to provide resilient
ongoing trading. In addition, our growing
long term order book will provide
support for our organic growth targets.
The markets in which we operate are
generally stable and in some cases
growing.The demand for our services is
strong as we increasingly cross-sell all
our services thus increasing our market
share across most sectors and skills. I
believe the market will support our
growth ambitions and we are well placed
to address changes as and when they
arise.
The niche acquisitions made during the
year have complemented our worldwide
activities and others will continue to be
progressed whilst we remain alert to
larger strategic regional opportunities to
diversify further the business.
Our directors and staff are focused on
managing the expected growth and
delivering improved performance,
supported by the latest technology and
well organised systems.We are
continually active in the need to
reinforce the business with quality
recruitment and the improved retention
of existing staff.
I consider the Group to be well placed
to build on this year's excellent
performance. Our strategy is aligned to
delivering continued profitable growth,
improving profit margins and strong cash
flows supported by the quality of our
projects and the strength of our order
book.
I therefore look forward to the Group
continuing to deliver strong growth and
enhanced shareholder value in the
coming years.
David T urner 
Chairman
9 March 2006
WSP Annual Report 2005  3