 02
Accumuli plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.accumuliplc.com
Chairman's statement
Overview
I am pleased to announce the results for the seven months 
ended 	 31 	 March 	 2011, 	 our 	 first 	 as 	 a 	 managed 	 security 	
services provider (MSSP ). The period under review in 
these results has been shortened as we have taken the 
decision to change our accounting reference date in order 
to align year ends for our acquisitions made to date. Not 
only will this simplify our own accounting but it will also 
provide	investors	and	analysts	with	a	clean	financial	model	
from which our progress may be assessed.
In my last report in October 2010 I outlined our investing 
strategy as being focused on the MSS sector. This is 
a market segment which:
k  has, and should continue to experience, substantial 
growth due to ever increasing security threats;
k  is characterised by a large number of niche and small 
market participants providing ample opportunities for 
consolidation; and
k  is well known to the board, which has a thorough 
understanding and knowledge of the market, its 
participants, activities and opportunities.
I am pleased to report that we have successfully commenced 
this investment strategy, with the completion of three 
acquisitions	in	five	months.	
Investments
On	25	November	2010	we	completed	the	first	acquisition ,	
Tuscany Networks Limited. This is a DDI (DNS, DHCP 
and IP address management) specialist based in Basingstoke 
for which we paid a cash consideration of  4.4m. T uscany is 
a 	 long-established, 	 profitable, 	 value-added 	 reseller 	 and 	
managed service provider of DDI solutions to a blue chip  
client base.
On 10 December 2010 we completed the acquisition 
of Fujin Technology Limited, a Theale-based systems 
integrator 	 providing 	 security 	 filtering 	 and 	 content 	
management, with a particular focus on the service 
provider 	 sector . 	 This 	 is 	 another 	 profitable, 	 well-established 	
business with a strong customer base in the service 
provider sector. The cash consideration paid was  1.6m, 
with a further  0.4m paid to settle shareholder and bank 
loans at completion.
Boxing Orange Limited, together with its wholly owned 
subsidiaries Webscreen Systems Limited and Boxing Orange 
MSS Limited (now dormant), was acquired on 15 April 
2011, shortly after the year end. Boxing Orange is a 
provider of managed security services from its security 
operations 	 centre 	 in 	 Leeds 	 and 	 is 	 a 	 profitable 	 business 	
which has been trading for over ten years. Webscreen is 
a provider of its own distributed denial of service appliance 
and	ser vices.	In	the	last	audited	financial	statements	for	
Boxing Orange and Webscreen they turned over  3.6m 
and	 0.6m	and	generated	profit	before	tax	of	 0.5m	and	
 0.2m respectively. The total consideration was  5.5m 
at 	 completion 	 for 	 Boxing 	 Orange, 	 satisfied 	 with 	  2.8m 	
in 	 ordinar y 	 shares 	 at 	 8.75p 	 per 	 share 	 and 	  2.7m	
in cash. The shares are the subject of a two year lock 
in arrangement. A further  2.1m cash consideration 
may be payable in 2012 subject to achievement 
of profitability targets for Webscreen for the calendar 
year ending 2011.
We believe that we can extract the maximum value from 
our purchases to a degree that none of them could 
as standalone entities, through both how we deliver 
and message advanced security solutions and through 
maximising cross selling opportunities across the group. 
Funding
At 31 August 2010 we held net cash balances (net of loans) 
of  2.2m, being the net result after selling the old trading 
business and re-structuring the group's balance sheet and 
plc board.
 In November 2010 we successfully raised  4.7m 
net to fund our investing strategy. We were pleased 
to welcome on board a number of new institutional 
investors - a clear validation of our strategy.  03
 Accumuli plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.accumuliplc.com
In November 2010 we were successful in raising  4.7m 
net from the placing of 76.9m new ordinary shares at 6.5p 
per share. We were particularly pleased to welcome on 
board a number of new institutional investors in this 
fundraising, a clear validation of our proposed strategy. 
This included an investment by Ian Smith. As described in 
the circular to shareholders at the time, Ian Smith's options 
were re-priced to the placing price and he subscribed for 
9.2m shares leaving 7.4m share options outstanding, which 
can only be exercised before 31 December 2012 upon 
a mutually agreed acquisition.
Our unlisted investment in the CI Group, which is held 
at	cost,	generated	a	cash	dividend	for	the	first	time.
In December 2010 we sold one of our remaining properties 
in Salford for consideration of  0.1m and secured a tenant 
on	a	three	year	lease	for	the	company 's	registered	office.
In April 2011 we secured an overdraft facility from the 
company's bankers for  1.5m. The primary function of 
this was to fund part of the cash consideration paid to the 
vendors of Boxing Orange. The board considered term 
facilities to cover this funding, however, felt the costs and 
short term nature of the funding requirement were such 
that an overdraft was the optimal solution.
Financial performance
In	repor ting	upon	the	financial	per formance	of	the	group	
I am going to draw an important distinction between the 
trading performance of the group and the costs of running 
the plc, which are borne by the company. It is important to 
note 	 that 	 the 	 financial 	 results 	 of 	 Boxing 	 Orange, 	 the 	 acquisition	
completed post period end, do not form part of these accounts 
other than being summarised in the post balance sheet 
events review and note 21 to the group accounts.
The period under review for the trading group is effectively 
the four months ended 31 March 2011. During this 
period we generated  0.4m EBITDA on revenues of 
 2.4m. The costs of the plc for the seven months ended 
31 March 2011 were  0.3m (excluding non-recurring 
acquisition costs). As a consequence of the acquisitions 
made we have recognised intangible assets related to 
customer relationships in Fujin and Tuscany which have 
resulted in an amortisation charge for the period of  0.2m.
The group reported a loss before tax and separately 
identifiable 	 costs 	 of 	  0.1m, 	 and 	  0.7m 	 af ter 	 separately 	
identifiable 	 costs. 	 Separately 	 identifiable 	 costs 	 comprised 	
the legal and professional fees associated with our three 
acquisitions	along	with	corporate	finance	fees	paid	to	MX C	
Capital Limited.
The results are in line with our expectations at the time 
of each of the acquisitions.
At the period end the group held  2.0m in cash balances, 
although as explained above these funds were subsequently 
used to part satisfy the cash consideration element for Boxing 
Orange. At 30 April 2011 the group was  0.4m overdrawn.
The	trading	group	generated	 0.8m	cash	from	operations	
during the period. 
Management structure
We have, and will continue to maintain, a clear distinction 
between the plc board and the executive management of 
the trading group. The plc board comprises the chairman, 
non-executive 	 directors, 	 finance 	 director 	 of 	 the 	 plc 	 and 	
trading group managing director. The trading group 
managing director and group finance director are 
responsible for reporting on the performance of the trading 
group at regular board meetings and for communicating 
trading group strategy as determined by the plc board.
The key executive management of the trading group comprises 
W ill	P almer ,	managing	director ,	Ian	W inn ,	finance	director ,	
Dean Murtagh, sales director, and Andy Aplin, technical 
director. These executives are responsible for delivering 
In summary
K  Trading business generated EBITDA of  0.4m for four month 
period to 31 March 2011
K  Group loss before tax of  0.7m, after acquisition costs of  0.6m, 
amortisation charges of  0.2m and plc costs of  0.3m
K Net	cash	generated	from	trading	group	operating	activities	  0.8m 04
Accumuli plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.accumuliplc.com
Chairman's statement continued
the trading performance of the trading group in line with 
targets communicated by the plc board. I am delighted to 
welcome Dean (who was a shareholder and sales director 
of T uscany Networks), Will and Andy (who were shareholders 
and directors of Fujin Technology) to the Accumuli group 
and have no doubt that they will be as successful within 
the Accumuli group as they were previously in the acquired 
businesses. The individuals between them have over 
60 years of experience in the industry.
Brand
With our third acquisition, that of Boxing Orange, 
we undertook a review of the brand under which we 
would gather together the businesses we have acquired. 
A common brand and message is crucial to ensure that 
we achieve our aim to establish a business of scale and 
to maximising cross selling opportunities across the group. 
In future, the acquired businesses will trade under 
Accumuli Security - Advanced Security Solutions ; this, 
we feel, conveys succinctly our service offering, without 
jargon or technical terminology.
Outlook
The 	 last 	 five 	 months 	 represents 	 phase 	 one 	 of 	 our 	 plan 	
to build an MSS business. In this short space of time 
we	have	acquired	the	first	three	businesses,	successfully	
integrated two of those businesses and are well on the 
way to integrating the third. As a result we have a strong 
foothold in the sector with some excellent products and 
some outstanding people. All businesses are trading in 
line with our expectations. Clearly we now need to leverage 
the customer bases acquired and maximise the cross selling 
opportunities available to us. We remain on the lookout for 
further acquisition opportunities which we feel can be acquired 
at an appropriate multiple and which meet very closely our 
investing criteria in the MSS sector. We have, and will 
continue, to decline opportunities which do not pass our 
stringent investing criteria.
Our future success will be dependent upon the efforts 
of 	 the 	 management 	 team 	 identified 	 above 	 and 	 the 	 staff 	
of all our trading businesses. We have been particularly 
impressed with the quality and dedication of the staff we 
have inherited through the acquisitions made and feel 
confident	that	Accumuli	Security	will	provide	a	springboard	
for our staff to prosper and advance.
I look forward to the next exciting phase in the group's 
developments as we seek to meet our objective of building 
a	business	of	significant	scale	in	the	MSS	sector .	
Graham Norfolk
Chairman
25 May 2011
 As a result of the acquisitions we have a strong 
foothold in the MSS market with some excellent 
products and outstanding people. We need to 
leverage our customer bases and maximise cross 
selling opportunities. 