 Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Business review Governance Accounts
02
Investment Portfolio
During the period, the Company increased its holdings in 
Turkey (Extrem Energy AS) and the North Sea (Elko Energy Inc). 
On 5 August 2009, Xtract completed a second optional 
subscription payment of US$1.75m to Extrem, thereby 
increasing its ownership share from 20% to 34%. On 11 
February 2010, Xtract acquired a further 16% of the issued 
capital of Extrem from partner Merty Energy (Merty ), taking 
Xtract's overall share of the business to 50% . Mr Emir Safa was 
subsequently appointed to the board of Extrem as Xtract's 
second nominee director which established joint control of 
the board, in line with joint ownership. Mr Safa, aged 42, is a 
Turkish national and a Certified Public Accountant. His career 
has involved holding a number of senior finance positions with 
several international firms with operations and partnerships  
in Turkey. Mr Safa has been known in his professional capacity 
for a number of years by Mr Hume the Group Finance Director.
On 8 January 2010, Xtract announced that it had entered 
an agreement with Oakville Capital ET, LLC (Oakville ), Elko's 
largest shareholder excluding Xtract. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Xtract acquired Oakville's entire holding in Elko, 
amounting to 13,200,000 ordinary shares. Consideration was 
comprised of a cash payment of US$1,342,000 and one new 
Xtract share for every Elko share. Following completion, Xtract's 
holding in Elko is 49,975,000 ordinary shares, representing just 
over 50% of Elko's issued capital . 
The increased holdings in Extrem and Elko were funded 
through the sale of minority positions in MEO Australia Ltd 
(MEO ) and Wasabi Energy Ltd (Wasabi ), and through a 
placement of 60 million new shares and warrants in December 
that raised  1.2 million before expenses. By 7 August 2009,  
the Company had sold all of its remaining shares in MEO.  
As a result of these disposals, Xtract no longer held any interest 
in MEO or Wasabi. These portfolio changes had the effect 
of shifting the focus of the Company towards Europe . The 
Company continues to hold its oil shale licences in Australia.
The financial year saw gradually improving 
investment conditions in the oil and gas sector, 
with oil prices recovering from their lows to once 
again support the financing of good quality 
exploration and development projects. Whilst  
it is fair to say that not all investors are alike, the 
overall risk appetite in the market remains fairly 
low. In this environment, Xtract has continued  
its transformation from passive investor to  
one with a much more active involvement in  
the operations of its investee companies, and 
from having a diversified energy portfolio to  
one which is much more focused on traditional 
oil and gas. 
Chairman's Statement
John Newton 
Executive Chairman Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Business review Governance Accounts 03
Xtract continued to hold a 25% interest in former subsidiary 
Zhibek Resources Ltd (Zhibek ) following the farm-out of the 
major share to Santos International Holdings Pty Ltd in October 
2008. Seismic work over Zhibek's Tash Kumyr licence area in 
the Kyrgyz Republic was completed and interpreted by Santos 
as operator and plans were announced to drill a well in 2011. 
Further details are given in the CEO's Review.
In Mexico, Xtract maintained its ownership of Sermines de 
Mexico and its licence portfolio of gold exploration interests.  
No significant activity was undertaken and steps have been 
taken to relinquish the licences in order to focus on the 
Company's oil and gas interests. Subsequent to year end,  
the company has relinquished its licence portfolio in Mexico. 
The relinquishment remains subject to regulatory process.
Elko Energy Inc.
On 26 August 2009, Elko disposed of 51% of Dragon Energy 
Inc (Dragon ). Dragon held a 30.7% working interest in 
the Kotaneelee field in the Yukon Territory, Canada which 
is operated by Devon Energy. This disposal enabled Elko 
management to dedicate their efforts and financial resources 
to its North Sea assets. Elko completed technical work covering 
both its Danish and Dutch licence interests and commenced 
a marketing initiative in a difficult environment where the 
industry was still recovering from the financial crisis.
It is pleasing to be able to report that these marketing 
efforts were rewarded. In June 2010, it was announced that 
an agreement with Altinex Oil Denmark A/S (Altinex ) had 
been finalised under which Altinex farmed in to the 02/05 
licence offshore Denmark. Altinex is part of the Noreco Group, 
being a 100% subsidiary of Norwegian Energy Company 
ASA ( Noreco'). Subsequent to the period end, in September 
2010, it was confirmed that an agreement had been reached 
with Chevron Exploration and Production Netherlands B.V. 
(Chevron ) under which Chevron would take over licences P1 
and P2 offshore Netherlands in exchange for an overriding 
royalty over future production from the Blocks. Further details 
of the respective arrangements are given in the CEO's Review.
The strategic portfolio changes described above and the 
successful marketing effort has created an enviable set of 
high potential near and medium-term oil and gas assets in 
which the Company is partnered by internationally recognised 
industry participants such as Chevron, Santos and Noreco. 
Extrem Energy A.S. 
Set against these achievements was considerable 
disappointment in Turkey, where the early promise of 
commercial oil production at the time of acquisition from the 
Alasehir licence area was not realised. The geology of the area 
proved much more complex than originally predicted and the 
drilling of Sarikiz-3, the re-entry of Alasehir-1 and attempts to 
establish long-term production from Sarikiz-2 each ultimately 
ended in failure. The Company has recognised losses in its 
accounts in relation to unsuccessful exploration activities as well 
as the impairment of its investment in Extrem. The unexpected 
failure to establish production led to a downward re-rating  
of the Xtract share price. 
Towards the end of the financial year the Company entered 
a difficult period. The lack of projected cash flows from the 
Alasehir licence area meant that investment plans in other 
licence areas in Turkey had to be curtailed. 
Board of Directors
There were a number of board changes during the year.  
Non-executive directors Rob Annells and John Conlon stepped 
down from the Company board on 31 December 2009 and  
31 March 2010, respectively, and Peter Moir joined the Company 
board as an executive director on 20 May 2010. Peter Moir had 
been and continues to be President and CEO of the Company's 
subsidiary, Elko. The addition of Peter Moir to the board and 
management team at Xtract added significant technical 
expertise and was a further step in the development of the 
Company into one that has a more active involvement with  
its underlying assets.
Board changes continued after the year end, when on 5 July 
2010, the Company announced the appointment of Peter Moir 
as Chief Executive Officer , and Paul Butcher as independent 
non-executive director. Andy Morrison resigned as a director 
and officer of the Company and left the Company with effect 
from the same date. On 1 October 2010, Sue Wickerson 
stepped down as a director and Alan Hume was appointed 
to the Board as Group Finance Director . 
I am pleased to welcome Peter Moir, Alan Hume and 
Paul Butcher to the board, and would like to express my 
appreciation to the outgoing directors for their contributions 
to the development of the Group during their service with the 
Company. We wish them success in their future endeavours.
Outlook
The outlook for the Company has improved since the end  
of the financial year. Although there are the usual exploration  
and appraisal risks associated with drilling in 2011, the 
Company has created a set of potentially valuable assets  
in Denmark, Netherlands and Central Asia and in the case  
of the Denmark and Netherlands assets, offer considerable 
upside potential in the success case.
A comprehensive review of our Turkish business, its assets and 
licence portfolio, is under way by Xtract management with the 
support of external advisors where necessary, and is expected 
to be reported upon shortly. We hope that a path forward  
will be found by which returns obtained can be commensurate 
with the investment already made by shareholders. A further 
business review is in progress involving the independent 
directors of Xtract and Elko in which the two companies  
have agreed to form a joint task force to identify the strategic 
options open to both companies. The end goal is to unlock  
the optimum value for all shareholders in both companies.
The Company intends to continue to manage its investments 
as a portfolio in order to manage its cash position and optimise 
returns to investors. The board actively monitors the financial 
position of the Company and is prepared to take the necessary 
steps to maintain an appropriate balance between a strong 
growth orientation and the need for an acceptable risk profile.
Dated: 23 November 2010
John Newton
Chairman