 Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2009 02
Chairman's Statement
The first six to nine months of the 
financial year were marked by financial 
turmoil and declining commodity prices 
which made for extremely challenging 
investment conditions. Share prices  
for smaller quoted energy firms such 
as Xtract declined, driven in part by the 
need for liquidity of hedge funds and 
other investors. The sustained adverse 
market conditions and a heightened 
uncertainty over the outlook for oil 
prices necessitated a reassessment of 
the Group's investment priorities. The 
final months of the period saw some 
tentative signs of recovery in the global 
economy, although there remains a high 
level of uncertainty over future trends 
and management of the Group's cash 
position remains a priority.
Given the circumstances, I am pleased 
to be able to say that there are some 
notable positive achievements to report 
in the period. Indications are that our new 
joint venture in Turkey, Extrem Energy 
A.S. (Extrem ) may have made a more 
promising oil discovery than was expected 
with its first on-shore well in its Alasehir 
license area and that it has the potential 
to become a cornerstone of the portfolio. 
Further details of the developments and 
operations in Turkey can be found in  
the CEO's Review section of this report.
Some tough decisions were needed
In the first part of the period, the Company 
had to make some tough decisions 
to reduce cash burn and to focus its 
investments in the most promising areas. 
This included placing the technology 
development of subsidiary Xtract Oil Ltd 
into hibernation, although Xtract Oil Ltd 
intends to maintain its mineral rights over 
its 2.12 billion barrels of indicated and 
inferred resources until conditions improve 
sufficiently to attract further investment.
The Company succeeded in putting its 
interests in Kyrgyzstan onto a stable footing 
by ending its involvement in the water 
injection project and farming out 75% of the 
exploration venture to Santos in exchange 
for commitments to fund up to US$8.5 
million towards a 2009-10 exploration 
programme. These arrangements 
significantly reduced overall cash burn and 
enabled the Company to gain exposure to  
a potentially interesting exploration target  
at a manageable level of investment.
In order to help protect and advance 
shareholder interests in the new business 
environment, we decided that action was 
required to change the board of associate 
Elko Energy Inc (Elko ). In December 2008 
three independent non-executive directors 
of Elko resigned, together with the CEO, 
Rudolf Kleiber. John Conlon (a director of 
Xtract) and Jack Bray (a director of DM Bray 
Capital) were appointed and Jeremy Kane 
agreed to remain as an independent non-
executive director for a temporary period 
to continue to represent the interests of 
the minority shareholders. Andy Morrison 
remained on the Board and became Acting 
CEO of Elko, pending the appointment 
of Peter Moir who commenced full time 
employment as director, President and  
CEO of Elko on 26 January 2009. 
The back-drop provided by the economic 
and financial challenges in the early part 
of the year were made more serious for 
the Group by the disappointing outcome 
of the drilling campaign by associate MEO 
Australia Ltd (MEO ) in the North-West 
Shelf of Australia. The Zeus-1 well spudded 
in January 2009. Testing results confirmed 
the primary objective sands to be water 
rather than gas-bearing and the well  
was plugged and abandoned in February  
2009. Fortunately, the Group was not 
over-committed to MEO having positioned 
itself to gain from the significant upside 
that would have arisen from success at 
Zeus-1, whilst at the same time seeking to 
ensure that its other portfolio businesses 
had sufficient funding whatever the drilling 
result.
 Given the circumstances, 
I am pleased to be able 
to say that there are 
some notable positive 
achievements to report  
in the period. 
John Newton 
Executive Chairman 03 Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
In April 2009, Xtract announced that it  
had entered into a conditional agreement 
with Lysander Minerals Corporation 
(Lysander ) of Canada under which the 
Company would acquire new common 
shares and warrants in Lysander in 
exchange for Xtract's entire interest in 
Elko. The proposed arrangement aimed 
to crystallise the value of Elko within the 
Company's portfolio and provide valuable 
commercial flexibility to the Xtract Group. 
From a financial perspective it promised 
to strengthen liquidity by increasing the 
proportion of the Group's holdings in 
publicly listed entities. 
At the present time, discussions with 
Lysander are paused while Lysander 
works on its other planned investments. 
Negotiations on the conditional agreement 
may or may not resume at a later date. 
During the second quarter of 2009, Xtract 
began a process of managed exit from 
its investment in MEO in order to finance 
other investments within its portfolio 
and to improve overall liquidity. During 
the course of the reporting period, the 
Company had reduced its holding in MEO 
from approximately 14.2% to approximately 
3.4% of the issued capital, raising a total  
of A$8.95 million. By 7 August 2009, the 
Company had sold all of its remaining 
shares in MEO. As a result of the disposals, 
Xtract no longer holds any interest in MEO. 
The total return on investment over the 
holding period was an estimated 124%  
(see side panel for details).
In other developments, investee company 
Wasabi Energy Ltd (Wasabi ) raised 
approximately A$4.6 million in June 2009 
through a pro-rata rights issue of convertible 
preference shares. Funds from the issue 
were used to discharge A$2.36 million  
of convertible loan notes and to provide 
working capital. The balance of A$1.15 
million of the outstanding loan notes was 
repaid by the distribution of 35,000,000 
Xtract shares to the note holders. The 
distribution of the Xtract shares resolved 
the cross-holding situation that had arisen 
from the 2008 sale of these shares by 
Cambrian Mining Plc to Wasabi. As a 
result of the rights issue, Xtract's holding 
in Wasabi at the end of the period had 
reduced to approximately 12.1%. In 
post-period developments the disposal of 
Xtract's remaining holding in Wasabi was 
completed. 
The need for additional liquidity in the 
Company has been reduced for the time 
being by the disposal of our stakes in MEO 
Australia Ltd and Wasabi Energy Ltd, but 
liquidity remains a challenge on which 
management is focused.
On 13 July 2009, Cambrian Mining Plc 
was itself taken over by Western Coal 
Corporation (Western Coal ) with the 
result that Western Coal took over as 
the Group's major shareholder holding 
approximately 45.3% of the issued capital. 
Increased focus on core oil and gas 
portfolio
The year under review has been one 
of considerable change. Xtract has 
demonstrated its flexibility to adapt to  
these challenging and unprecedented 
times. The consolidation that has taken 
place over the past twelve months has 
resulted in a stronger and leaner company. 
Xtract looks forward to further success  
in Turkey and the return to the overall 
stability of world financial markets. Xtract  
is committed to focusing its resources on 
its core oil and gas portfolio (including oil 
shale) and to continue to provide sustained  
growth for shareholders.
Dated: 13 November 2009
John Newton 
Executive Chairman
Our investment in Turkey proved to be  
a turning point
In Turkey, under the terms of the 
agreement with Merty Energy (Merty ), 
we created a Turkish company, Extrem 
Energy A.S. (Extrem ) in which Xtract and 
Merty initially held 20% and 80% interests 
respectively. Xtract invested US$5.0 million 
to fund Extrem's initial work programme 
and Merty applied for the transfer of a 
portfolio of seven licence interests into 
Extrem. On 30 June 2009, Xtract exercised 
its option to increase its share-holding by 
contributing a second tranche of US$1.75 
million. A third and final optional tranche  
of US$1.75 million was subscribed on  
05 August 2009 to take the Company's 
holding to the current level of 34%.
The Group remained flexible as market 
conditions evolved
The new Elko board has advanced the  
asset portfolio considerably during the  
year and is now much better placed to 
attract industry participants to farm in  
to developments in the Netherlands and 
Denmark. Discussions with infrastructure 
providers have advanced alongside 
discussions with potential partners.  
The external market remains capital-
constrained which presents challenges  
to even the best-prepared projects,  
but we remain optimistic that Xtract  
can recover its investment in Elko and 
potentially achieve an attractive return.  
We would like to bring Elko to a liquidity 
event as soon as practicable.
34%
Xtract exercised its option to increase 
its share-holding in Extrem Energy A.S. 
to 34%.
A$8.95m 
A$8.95m raised by sale of shares  
in MEO Australia Ltd to fund other 
investments.