 02
ZincOx Resources plc
n line with our policy of geographic diversification during
2002 we are delighted to have acquired the high grade
Shaimerden deposit in Kazakhstan. Over the past year
considerable progress has been made on this and the Jabali
project. For both these projects we have now identified
process routes that will allow their profitable operation even 
at today's severely depressed zinc prices. Together these
projects alone have the potential to produce over 100,000
tonnes of zinc per year. At this level of production the
company would be ranked firmly among the medium sized
zinc producers, but, more significantly, the cost of zinc
production from these projects should be among the lowest 
in the world and profitable even at the current zinc price.
Since Shaimerden and Jabali require the construction of 
new plants, production of zinc will not occur for at least 
24 months. In order to generate earlier potential cash flow, 
we have recently added the Las Damas project in Mexico 
to our portfolio. At Las Damas we have entered into a joint
venture agreement whereby we can earn a 50% interest in 
a number of small zinc oxide mines that have been worked
intermittently over the past 50 years and where there is
excellent potential for additional zinc deposits. One property 
in particular, Esperanza, provides an immediate target and
drilling from old underground workings is planned. Due largely
to the low capital cost of establishing this operation we hope
to be able to make a development decision before the end 
of this year, with production commencing during 2004.
In the middle of the year we acquired the Shaimerden project
in Kazakhstan. Since independence in 1991, the country has
adopted open and forward looking economic policies. Its
considerable oil reserves have attracted major international
companies which have invested heavily in new production and
transport projects. The benefits of these developments are
largely responsible for Kazakhstan's double digit growth rate,
one of the highest in the world.
Metallurgical test work at Shaimerden has demonstrated 
that it is possible to process the ore in two different ways. 
The first one is comparable to the low cost process applied
for many years at the Padaeng mine, in Thailand, and more
recently at the Skorpion project, in Namibia, where the final
product will be pure zinc metal. The second is a thermic
process producing a concentrate suitable for sale to
conventional smelters.
The zinc smelters of Kazakhstan and central Asian countries
are well placed to meet Chinese demand. Today China
represents the largest and fastest growing zinc market in 
the world with consumption increasing by 12% per annum.
Notwithstanding increased output, in 2002, for the first time,
Chinese zinc mine production failed to meet internal demand.
Central Asian smelters are expanding to meet this new
demand but as there is little new mine production planned 
for the region there should be interest not only in metal 
from Shaimerden but also concentrate and even ore.
I
No l J J Masson
Chairman
The acquisition of the high grade Shaimerden
deposit in Kazakhstan and our more recent
involvement in Mexico have added important 
new projects to the portfolio, in line with our 
strategy of geographic diversification.
'
 
Chairman's Statement 03
Annual Report 2002
Previous work at Shaimerden by Ennex International plc, 
the former owners, investigated the possibility of producing
100,000 tonnes per annum of zinc metal. It gave a marginal
economic return as the life of the project was too short 
for the size of the capital required. We have decided to
investigate a project producing at a rate of 60,000 tonnes 
per annum of zinc metal and with less automation, but more
labour intensive. However a larger workforce is very much 
less cost critical in Kazakhastan, where the cost of skilled
labour is low. As we are not using equipment constrained 
by economies of scale we can commence production at a
more modest size and build up to 60,000 tonnes per annum.
We are in the process of negotiating a turnkey development
with an engineering company that has considerable
experience in the development of small zinc plants.
At the Jabali project, an in-fill drilling programme was
undertaken at the end of the year to upgrade the status of the
resource, sufficient for a development decision to be made.
Recent geological remodelling of the deposit by international
consultants has confirmed a resource of 12.6 million tonnes at
a zinc grade of 8.9% with 1.1% lead and 68g/t silver. As the
ore body remains open on two sides we are confident that
there is further significant zinc mineralisation, which could add
to the life of a mining operation. 
Previously our plans for Jabali had involved the production of
a zinc concentrate that could be shipped up the Red Sea to
Yanbu, an industrial park in Saudi Arabia. At Yanbu, a major new
zinc smelter  complex is planned, using technology that would
enable low quality feed to be treated at low cost. However,
progress has slowed at Yanbu while a local partner is sought,
but discussions are underway with suitable potential partners.
In order to have the flexibility to develop Jabali independently
of the Yanbu project, we have investigated the potential 
to produce an internationally saleable product from Jabali. 
A scoping study has recently been completed for a project
that will take the zinc flotation concentrate and upgrade it
using Waelz and calcining kilns so that a very high grade
oxide concentrate is produced. Due to Jabali's size, we do 
not believe that the production of a high grade concentrate
would compromise the provision of sufficient lower grade
concentrate for the development of the Yanbu Project.
Over the past year we have examined a number of options for
the treatment of the Tsumeb slags, over which we currently
hold an option to purchase a 50.1% interest. Our testwork
has indicated that we would be able to recover a high
proportion of the zinc and germanium into an oxide fume.
However the preliminary cost estimate for the capital
development of such a plant is quite substantial and the
economic returns generated by this project would not be
sufficiently attractive, at the currently depressed metal 
prices, to warrant development. Studies investigating ways 
of reducing the capital expenditure are underway. 
Above: No l Masson and Andrew Woollett at Tsumeb, in Namibia Work over the past year has shown that the Remac project in
Canada will require a higher zinc price for its development and
it was decided to exchange our direct interest in Remac for
shares in Redhawk Resources Inc, our partner in the project.
This has enabled us to maintain an interest without on going
work commitments, as had been the case. ZincOx now holds
a 22% interest in Redhawk. At the same time, Redhawk 
took over the Torlon project in Guatemala, which has been
subsequently dropped from their portfolio.
When we listed the company on AIM, our main projects were
in the Middle East. In order to achieve our long term objective
of becoming a major zinc producer we have broadened our
portfolio of projects beyond the Middle East. The recent
turmoil in the region has undoubtedly reduced the appetite 
for our shares among potential investors but as the quality 
of our projects elsewhere begins to be recognised we believe
the interest in the company should increase.
Another important issue for potential investors is the zinc
price, which has continued to remain extremely low. This low
price has not been due to a fall in demand, as global zinc
consumption continues to grow and increased by 2.1% in
2002. The lower price is a consequence of the imbalance
between supply and demand. Mine output has been reduced
over the past 18 months, but over the same period smelter
capacity and metal production has increased. While a number
of older smelters have closed, major new projects initiated
before the collapse of the zinc price have commenced
production. As this pipeline of new projects is now almost
exhausted and given continued steady growth the market
should become better balanced and the price is expected 
to recover steadily over the next 18 months. The dearth of
exploration and new project initiation over recent years may
well result in significant shortages of zinc in the medium term
and indeed Brook Hunt, a leading metal market analysis
organisation, predicts an average zinc price of US$1,300 per
tonne in 2005, some 60% higher than the price today. 
Since zinc is an indispensable part of modern living, we are
confident that the price will recover to a level that supports a
sustainable industry. In the meantime, we are fortunate to 
have the technology that enables us to develop projects that
can be profitable and financed even at the current price of
zinc. In addition to our work with primary mineral deposits 
we have, for some time, been working on the recovery of 
zinc from various secondary and industrial waste materials.
This is an exciting new area of growth for the company as
such materials are readily available and in many cases are
creating an environmental problem for which a solution is
urgently required. Tests using technology developed by the
company have been very encouraging and we are hopeful 
that this technology may be brought to commercial account 
in the near future.
04
ZincOx Resources plc
Right Peter Wynter Bee, Andrew Woollett
and Michael Foster on the
Shaimerden deposit 
Far Drill rig arriving on the Shaimerden 
right deposit In the middle of the year we participated in a novel financing
scheme with the New Opportunities Investment Trust, NOIT.
This involved the issue of new ZincOx shares and their
exchange for new shares in NOIT, with the intention that our
shares in NOIT would, following their listing, be placed with
institutional investors. Unfortunately, the market conditions 
did not allow this placement to proceed and the Board of
NOIT is currently examining ways of in which shareholders 
can realise their investment. 
In view of the delay in realising the NOIT investment and in
order to have sufficient funds to complete the Shaimerden
feasibility study we undertook two small private placements
with existing institutional shareholders in February and May
2003. These placings raised  500,000 and  750,000 at 
42p and 47.5p respectively. In addition we are finalising a
placing of  492,000 also at a share price of 47.5p.
In order to facilitate better understanding of our business by
potential investors and shareholders, it has become clear to 
us that it would be beneficial for our brokers to have specialist
mining expertise and in the light of this, we are planning to
move shortly to Numis Securities as our nominated adviser
and brokers.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for
their support and hard work over the past year, and I am
hopeful that these efforts will become more generally
recognised by the market over the current year. 
N J J Masson
Chairman
18th June 2003
05
Annual Report 2002
Right View of the Las Damas deposit