 Annual Report 2004
2 ZincOx Resources plc
The past 12 months have been the most successful since the company was established. There 
have been three important developments: the successful completion of a positive feasibility study 
for the development of a zinc mine at Jabali in Yemen, and the commencement of feasibility 
studies for the development of zinc recycling plants in Turkey and the USA.
While the basic strategy of the company to bring to account non-sulphide zinc resources has 
not changed, the development of the LTC technology puts us into the zinc chemical rather than 
simply the zinc metal business.  Since a considerable proportion of zinc oxide is made from 
metal, the price of zinc oxide, for all but the lowest grades, sells at a premium to the value of the 
metal contained and therefore our zinc resources become more valuable to the company.  
 
By completing the Jabali feasibility study, in March 2005, we fulfi lled our earn-in requirements 
entitling us to a 60% interest in the Jabali deposit and were able to apply for a mining lease. 
The deposit contains a mineral resource of 12.6 million tonnes grading 8.9% zinc. The study 
envisages the mining of 800,000 tonnes per year of ore from a shallow open pit over a mine life 
of about 11 years.  Ore will be treated using the LTC process for the production of about 70,000 
tonnes per year of high quality zinc oxide suitable for sale direct to industrial consumers. The 
capital cost of the project development is expected to be about  40 million. 
Operating costs have been estimated and a cash fl ow model has been drawn up based upon 
the latest fi scal conditions being negotiated with government. The model demonstrates that the 
project has a post tax, ungeared rate of return of 25% and a net present value of  31 million, 
using a conservative long term zinc price (US$1,000 per tonne). The project is expected to have 
a cost of zinc oxide production among the lowest in the world and this should greatly facilitate the 
raising of project fi nance for development. 
Project fi nancing will commence as soon as the mining licence has been awarded. Assuming 
a debt equity ratio of 2:1, this would imply an equity component of  13 million of which our 
share would be only  7.8 million.  Provided the granting of the mining licence is not delayed, 
construction could begin at the start of 2006, and fi rst production in the second half of 2007.   
Our strategy has evolved signifi cantly over the past few years, and in order for shareholders 
to understand the reasons for this, a special section entitled Development of Technology and 
Strategy has been included in this annual report.  
We have been working on the recovery of zinc from waste materials using low cost 
hydrometallurgical, leaching technology for some years. In particular, we have been investigating 
the best way to treat waste produced from the recycling of steel scrap, so called electric arc 
furnace dust or EAFD. Due to the galvanised nature of the majority of scrap and the volatility of 
zinc, EAFD typically contains between 15% and 25% zinc. It is therefore considerably richer in 
zinc than most zinc mines and represents a very attractive resource. 
During the course of the year our testwork showed that the LTC process, originally developed for 
the Jabali project, can produce very high purity zinc oxide from EAFD. While we can also produce 
zinc metal from EAFD using solvent extraction, we believe that the use of the LTC process is the 
best way to treat it. Furthermore, since the EAFD is obtained at little or no cost, the overall cost of 
producing zinc oxide is very much lower than conventional methods. 
The Aliaga Recycling Project will be developed in a heavy industrial zone on Turkey's west coast, 
where fi ve steel recycling plants are located. We have recently entered an option agreement to 
purchase a large site that will be suffi cient for both the process plant and a permanent residue 
disposal facility. 
The feasibility study, which is scheduled for completion in the second half of 2005 envisages the 
development of the plant in two stages.  Initially the feed will come almost entirely from Aliaga and 
the plant will produce 12,500 tonnes per annum of zinc oxide, but subsequently capacity will be 
expanded to 30,000 tonnes per annum by the treatment of EAFD from elsewhere in Turkey. 
A preliminary estimate of capital and operating costs has been undertaken and the cash fl ow 
Chairman's Statement Annual Report 2004
 ZincOx Resources plc   3
modelled. At a zinc price of US$1,000 per tonne the post tax net present value, using a discount 
rate of 10% is  22 million and the internal rate of return is 30%. 
The United States is the world's third biggest steel producer, half of which comes from recycling 
scrap which produces about 850,000 tonnes of EAFD annually.  While the majority of this EAFD 
undergoes energy intensive processing to produce a zinc concentrate, about 30% goes to 
landfi ll. In January, we announced a strategic alliance with Envirosafe Services of Ohio Inc (ESOI), 
which handles more EAFD than any other landfi ll facility in North America. 
Under our alliance, ESOI will provided EAFD to our plant and will take our process residue at no 
cost or benefi t. Zinc feedstock is therefore free. 
A preliminary estimate of capital and operating costs has been undertaken for a plant producing 
initially 20,000 tonnes per annum of zinc oxide rising to 30,000 tonnes per annum in year four, 
together with a cash fl ow model. At a zinc price of US$1,000 per tonne the post tax net present 
value using a discount rate of 10% is about  22 million and the internal rate of return is 25%. 
Zinc oxide may be characterised by chemical purity, grain size and shape, and internal surface 
area. Different industries are interested in different characteristics and this can have a signifi cant 
bearing on price. Our testwork to date, has shown that the LTC process can be modifi ed to 
produce different grades of material which will facilitate our entry into a broad spectrum of the 
market place.
Today the worldwide production and consumption of zinc oxide is in the order of 1,000,000 
tonnes. About half of this is consumed by the rubber industry, mainly in tyres. Other 
important consumers include the ceramics, oil additives, paints, animal feeds and 
pharmaceutical industries.  
With the exception of a few special situations most zinc oxide is produced from metallic zinc, 
either from new ingots or from scrap produced by the galvanising industry. The cost of the zinc 
feedstock is therefore either the LME price plus a premium for ingots, or in the case of zinc scrap 
85% - 90% of the LME value. So while conventional zinc oxide production has modest capital 
and operating costs, since zinc oxide typically sells for only a 10%-20% premium to the value of 
the metal contained, the margins are rather small. The margins for our zinc oxide projects, on the 
other hand, are completely different as we obtain zinc feedstock cheaply in the case of the Jabali 
deposit and at no cost in the case of our EAFD recycling projects.
The size of conventional zinc oxide production plants is relatively small, typically producing 
between 10,000 and 20,000 tonnes per annum. The market is split between several players 
spread around the world. ZincOx therefore has two signifi cant advantages. Firstly, having plants 
producing between 30,000 and 72,000 tonnes per annum the company will enjoy signifi cant 
benefi ts of the economies of scale. Secondly, in the development of these three projects ZincOx 
will be the world's largest producer of zinc oxide which given its very low cost of production will 
enable the company to exert considerable infl uence on the market.
In addition to our plans for EAFD, we have made considerable progress with the development 
of fuming equipment particularly designed for materials where the zinc cannot be recovered 
by leaching. Lead smelters, for example, produce slag that contains between 8% and 14% 
zinc. Such slag has no value and generally accumulates in dumps at the smelter. The zinc 
found in these slags is not recoverable by leaching but can be concentrated by the well known 
fuming process. Conventional fuming equipment, however, is too energy intensive to justify slag 
treatment. A new type of fuming equipment, Polykiln, has been developed and is being tested by 
a company formed by ZincOx and the metallurgists who developed the Polykiln concept.  
This company modifi ed and refurbished a pilot plant in the early part of the year and 
discontinuous tests have been carried out since August.  Various design modifi cations have 
been made and we recently commenced running longer tests that will allow us to determine the 
zinc recovery, the energy consumption and therefore the economical viability of the equipment. 
Zinc has been the last of the metals to rise from the depressed prices experienced over the past 
Chairman's Statement Annual Report 2004
4 ZincOx Resources plc
few years. Continuing oversupply and high inventories of metal have caused zinc to lag behind 
the other base metals.  However, the huge and sustained appetite for metals from China has 
fi nally caught up with zinc and LME stocks have fallen. Consequently, although stocks are still 
high, the price has reacted as expected and at present we are experiencing stronger zinc prices.  
All commentators seem to be predicting continuing price growth through the remainder of this 
year at least. 
While our three main projects, outlined above, are some way from production, current prices 
are relevant to the value of our Shaimerden project deferred receipts, which at the current zinc 
price (US$1,250 per tonne) would be worth US$21 million to ZincOx. Overburden removal at 
Shaimerden commenced at the beginning of 2005 and we can expect our fi rst payment no later 
than February 2007. 
As a result of the development of the LTC process for the treatment of the Jabali deposit, we will 
not be pursuing the concept of a new zinc smelter at Yanbu, in Saudi Arabia.
As I look to the year ahead, we are hopeful that the cost savings we expect from Polykiln will 
be confi rmed, and in anticipation of this, we have already started to negotiate the acquisition of 
various slag dumps around the world. We are confi dent that the feasibility studies for our Turkish 
and US recycling projects will be completed by the end of the year, and we plan that they will be 
the fi rst of a network of plants we will establish around the world. Together with our Jabali project, 
we now have the assets required to make us into a large zinc company that has the potential to 
grow into a signifi cant low cost producer. 
The great achievements of 2004 would not have been possible without the strenuous effort of our 
staff and my fellow directors and I would like to thank them all for their hard work. 
NJJ Masson                                                                                  4th May 2005                 
Chairman
Chairman's Statement
Andrew Woollett (Managing Director) and No l Masson (Chairman)