 2
Chairman's Statement
2011 has seen a huge transformation in the Company's 
fortunes and we are well on our way to realising our ambition 
of becoming a major zinc recycling company. At the start of 
the year we had not yet started site work on the land we had 
agreed to rent for the development of our first recycling plant in 
South Korea; by the end of the year the US$110 million project 
was almost complete, and I am delighted to report that we 
have now commenced production and we will gradually build 
up to full capacity over the next few months.
The development of the first phase of the Korean Recycling 
Plant (KRP1 ), which is designed to process 200,000 tonnes 
per annum of Electric Arc Furnace Dust (EAFD ), will make 
it the largest EAFD recycling facility in Asia. The development 
of the second phase (KRP2 ), a further 200,000 tonnes of 
EAFD per annum, will make ZincOx the third largest recycler 
of this material in the world. When in full production, KRP(1&2) 
will produce 92,000 tonnes of zinc per annum in a high grade 
concentrate which, if it were a zinc mine, would make it one 
of the largest zinc mines in the region. Unlike a zinc mine, 
however, we are not relying on a finite reserve of limited life, but 
rather on EAFD supply contracts with major steel companies 
where we are providing an essential service that will be 
required for as long as iron and steel scrap is being recycled.
It also gives me great pleasure to inform you that the plant 
was completed without so much as a single lost time injury. 
After 500,000 man hours and fast track development with, 
at times, numerous concurrent activities in a small working 
area, this is an outstanding performance. Safety, whether 
during construction or production, is of paramount importance 
to the Group and this will continue to be instilled in our new 
production team in Korea so as to maintain the same vigilance 
during their daily work.
The Rotary Hearth Furnace is at the core of the process 
employed at KRP . While it has been used to treat waste dusts 
from integrated steel works for about a dozen years, previous 
attempts to use the technology to recover zinc from dusts 
generated by Electric Arc Furnaces recycling carbon steel, had 
been spectacularly unsuccessful. However, with the benefit 
of an exceptional technical team and a focused strategy, 
we have been able to overcome the previous challenges 
presented by this feedstock. The entire process flowsheet, 
including feed preparation and gas handling, was stripped 
back to basics and redesigned with a view to optimising zinc 
and iron recovery and reducing energy consumption. It is still 
early days and we are still ramping up to full capacity, targeted 
recovery and product quality. However, several of the features 
of the process that many in the industry thought impossible 
have now been demonstrated, for example, the integrity of 
the briquettes, the efficiency of the feeding and discharging, 
a novel heat exchange system and high energy efficiency, all 
of which lead to the high zinc recovery and iron metallisation 
required for production of saleable products. With these 
important challenges overcome we are confident that the plant 
can operate as anticipated.
The schedule for the development was maintained very strictly 
throughout the year, notwithstanding changes to certain 
regulations that were unforeseen during the initial planning 
stages. Similarly, the budget was carefully controlled, and while 
there were a number of unforeseen additional expenses, these 
were largely offset by savings elsewhere in the budget. While 
it will still be a few months before the final cost will be known, 
if there is an overrun it should not be too significant. Indeed 
the single greatest additional cost was due to exchange 
rate fluctuations involving a period of exceptional strength 
of the Korean Won in the middle of the year. Were it not for 
this, expenditure would have been under budget. I am sure 
shareholders would like to join me and my fellow directors in 
thanking the development team for their excellent work.
Andrew Woollett
Executive Chairman
KRP Overall Site View ZincOx Resources plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
3
Financing for the project was through a combination of 
ZincOx's equity and two loans provided by Korea Zinc, one 
of the world's largest zinc metal producers. During the course 
of the year we drew down the Offtake Loan in three tranches 
as planned, with the second loan, the Development Loan, 
being drawn down during 2012. Towards the end of the 
year, although we were confident that the project would be 
completed within budget, we decided to raise some additional 
finance by the placing of  6.25 million of new shares at 56p, 
the then market mid price. These funds give us an extra 
contingency provision in the event of a slower than expected 
ramp up and provide us with resources to pursue both 
the expansion of KRP and the pursuit of recycling projects 
elsewhere in the world. 
The placing gave us an opportunity to bring two new large 
institutional investors onto our register, which together with 
our other institutional shareholders, constitute about 70% of 
the ownership of the Company. Institutional shareholders are 
certainly an important element in any fundraising and I am 
greatly indebted to a number of them for their loyal support 
over the past few years, many of which have been extremely 
frustrating and challenging. 
While institutional shareholders are critical, so too are individual 
private shareholders. For a small company such as ZincOx, 
day to day share trading is vital to maintaining real liquidity, i.e. 
a continuous market, in our shares, and this is down to private 
investors. In order to try to service these shareholders as 
efficiently as possible, in September we appointed finnCap as 
joint brokers to the Company. It has strong relationships with 
most of the larger private client brokers, and we look forward 
to their continuing support to broaden our shareholder base. 
The appointment of finnCap led us to carry out a review of 
our broking requirements, as a result of which, we decided to 
appoint Peel Hunt as our main brokers. Peel Hunt are one of 
the most highly rated brokers to small and mid-cap companies 
and its very strong Clean Tech  research capability will, I am 
sure, become increasingly relevant for us in the months and 
years ahead.
In the middle of the year we came out with a revised cost 
estimate, US$100 million, for KRP2, for the doubling of the 
existing plant's capacity. At the beginning of 2012 we started 
to work on the basic engineering for KRP2.  An engineering 
and costing study by Xmetech is nearing completion, and that 
will enable us to put together a feasibility study of sufficient 
detail for us to raise commercial debt. We have been working 
with a bank on a suitable project finance structure for KRP2 for 
a number of months.
27th April 2012
15th December 2011
9th September 2011
23rd June 2011
4th May 2011
Chairman's Statement 4
Chairman's Statement
It is likely that any chosen bank would require a significant 
proportion of our zinc sales to be hedged and hence the exact 
amount of the loan is not known at this time. Together, with our 
existing equity contribution, it will not, however, be sufficient 
to cover the full cost of the development of KRP2. It is likely, 
however, that the shortfall could be provided by a company 
interested in purchasing our zinc product, in much the same 
way as Korea Zinc provided loans against their offtake rights 
for KRP1's zinc concentrate production.
Other Recycling Projects
While almost all our staff continue to focus on KRP , we are 
now very actively pursuing a number of exciting zinc recycling 
projects elsewhere in the world. I hope we may be able to 
announce progress on some of these well before the end of 
this year.
Mining
The continuing uncertainty of the political and security situation 
in Yemen has meant that the refinancing of the Jabali project 
has not been achieved during the year. We continue to look at 
options to realise the value of our past investment.
Outlook
In the immediate future, the Company's main focus is to bring 
KRP1 up to full production. At the same time, however, we will 
be pressing ahead with the engineering design and costing of 
KRP2 and its financing and commencement of development 
before the end of the year. In addition, I hope to be able to 
announce plans for developments elsewhere in the world. 
We are convinced that the process we are using at KRP 
is a breakthrough that we can replicate around the world 
and we intend to pursue aggressively these opportunities 
so that we may make the best of our significant first mover 
advantage. I should like to thank my fellow directors and all our 
shareholders for their support of the management and their 
faith in this technology over the past year and I look forward to 
their sharing in the rewards that will result from expanding our 
operations around the world.
Andrew Woollett
Chairman
21 May 2012
Rotary Hearth Furnace
5th August 2011
27th January 2012
KRP - First EAFD Delivery January 2012
KRP - First Production Ceremony 27th April 2012