 04 Accumuli plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Overview
Chairman's statement
Introduction
Accumuli produced another excellent 
performance in the year to 31 March 2014 
during a period of continued acquisitive 
growth and re-organisation of the business 
to allow and accommodate future growth.
In June 2013 we acquired Signify Solutions 
Limited (Signify ) for net cash consideration 
of  2.6m. Signify provides hosted, managed 
service two-factor authentication utilising both 
RSA technology (public key cryptography 
algorithm) and its own Passcode OnDemand 
software to enable secure remote access to 
an organisation's network and information.
In May and November 2013 we settled 
the deferred consideration in relation to the 
acquisition of EdgeSeven, paying  1.7m 
in cash and issuing 6.8 million shares to 
the owner employees of EdgeSeven, who 
since acquisition have taken key roles within 
the group. 
In December 2013 we acquired Eqalis Limited 
(Eqalis ), Splunk's (the NASDAQ listed 
provider of software to analyse and search 
machine data) leading partner in the UK, 
which significantly enhanced our capability 
in Big Data monitoring and analytics for net 
cash consideration of  1.9m.
In February 2014 the escrow balance relating 
to the sale of the Webscreen business to Juniper 
was released and the group received US$1m.
Results
Revenue for the year grew by 18% to  16.6m 
(2013:  14.1m), driven by acquisitions and 
growth in services revenue.
Gross profit increased by 32% to  9.9m 
(2013:  7.5m), with a corresponding gross 
profit margin of 60% (2013: 53%). This 
increase was a result of both the contributions 
from our targeted acquisitions and through 
implementation of our strategy to focus on 
higher margin services revenues rather than 
technology solution sales. Our success in this 
is also highlighted in the fact that 61% of our 
gross profit is now generated from recurring 
revenues  (2013: 51%).
Group EBITDA  grew by 32% to  2.9m 
(2013:  2.2m), producing a net profit margin  
of 17% (2013: 15%).
Group loss before tax from continuing 
operations was  0.9m (2013:  0.3m profit) 
which reflects the costs associated with a buy 
and build strategy . Amortisation of intangibles, 
which is a non-cash expense, and relates 
almost entirely to acquisition activity, was  1.9m 
(2013:  1.4m) and separately identifiable 
costs were  1.4m (2013:  0.2m), of which 
 0.4m were non-cash (2013:  0.3m).
Cash flow remained strong with cash generated 
from operations
4
 increasing by 50% to  3.6m 
(2013:  2.4m), demonstrating the strength of 
our business model.
We finished the year with  3.6m of cash in 
hand (2013:  7.2m), which was after funding 
the acquisitions referred to above and 
payment of our maiden final dividend.
The fundamental outlook and growth prospects for 
the IT Security market remain strong and in place.
The key to success for Accumuli to date 
has been its ability to execute and integrate 
the six acquisitions it has made. 
Highlights in 2014
   Revenue for the year 
grew by 18% to  16.6m 
(2013:  14.1m)
   Group EBITDA  grew by 
32% to  2.9m (2013:  2.2m)
   Cash generated from 
operations
4
 increasing by 
50% to  3.6m (2013:  2.4m)
   Acquisition of Eqalis 
and Signify
   Recommended dividend 
of 0.46p per share
   Revenues derived from managed services, software 
support and maintenance contracts where the group 
has an obligation to provide an ongoing service over 
a contractual period.
   Earnings from continuing operations before interest, 
tax, depreciation, share-based payments and separately 
identifiable costs and income (acquisition/disposal costs, 
re-organisation costs and one off costs/income).
  Group EBITDA divided by revenue.
4
  Net cash generated from operating activities from 
continuing operations before separately identifiable 
costs and income (acquisition/disposal costs, 
re-organisation costs and one off costs/income) 
and plc costs. Overview
www.accumuli.com Accumuli plc Annual report and accounts 2014 05
Dividend
We announced and paid our maiden dividend 
last year of 0.4p per share and indicated that 
it was our intention to distribute up to 30% of 
group EBITDA in the form of dividend annually. 
This reflected our confidence in our cash 
generative business model. We retain this 
confidence and are pleased to recommend 
a final dividend in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2014 of 0.46p per share, which 
represents an increase of 15% on last year's 
dividend. Subject to shareholder approval at the 
annual general meeting, the dividend will be 
payable on 15 October 2014 to shareholders 
on the register on 3 October 2014.
People
Over 80% of our gross profit derives from 
services, which is directly linked to the abilities 
and expertise of our staff. We believe we have 
some of the best people in the industry and 
each and every one of them is instrumental in 
Accumuli's success. The board acknowledges 
that any growing business, particularly one 
characterised by acquisition, will provide 
challenges, disruption and distractions to its 
people. However the results delivered provide 
evidence of our employees' ability to manage 
change and the board would like to thank all 
employees for their enthusiasm, diligence 
and hard work.
Strategy
In a rapidly moving market it is important that 
as a business we are cognisant of market 
trends and changes as we strive to obtain 
first mover advantage. 
Accumuli's strategic aim has been to be 
a leading UK-based independent specialist 
in IT Security. With a proliferation in the tools 
and techniques available to analyse machine 
data (the so called Big Data  trend) and the 
convergence of IT Security and Operations 
to now work jointly together, we are seeing 
market analysts, vendors and market 
participants all moving towards a wider 
description (and product set) of IT Security 
and Risk Management . Accumuli, with its 
current capabilities, very much sees itself 
as being able to operate and succeed in this 
wider market - the acquisition of Eqalis having 
provided a significant impetus to the overall 
level of the group's capability.
A further key strategic objective of the board 
has been to improve and increase the visibility 
of earnings and reduce the reliance upon lower 
margin, volume dependent product sales. 
This has been manifested in the disposal of 
Webscreen (a product sales business which 
required continued and significant investment 
to prosper), the acquisition of Signify, a managed 
service business, and the continuing investment 
in, and recruitment of staff in, consulting and 
managed services. 
The board has publicly stated that it aims to 
generate more than 60% of gross profit from 
recurring business, an objective which the 
group has met in 2014 - and to ensure that 
its overhead base at the start of a financial 
year is covered by the gross profit from 
recurring business, an objective which 
we continue to work towards. 
Finally, the key to success for Accumuli to date 
has been its ability to execute and integrate 
the six acquisitions it has made. Making more 
acquisitions, executing and integrating them 
remains a crucial part of the group's strategy 
and we spend a lot of time and effort searching 
for businesses that meet our investment criteria. 
Effective integration only works if the existing 
business structure is robust and scalable 
enough to accommodate new business lines 
and products. A re-organisation of the business 
was undertaken and completed during the last 
financial year which we believe creates the 
necessary platform for future growth - both 
via further acquisition and organic growth. 
Outlook
The fundamental outlook and growth prospects 
for the IT Security market remain strong and 
in place. 
We continue to see an increasing number of 
potential sales opportunities driven by our 
customers who require assistance in managing 
their IT risk, whether that be availability, 
performance, visibility, compliance, in-house 
expertise or security. We now need to convert 
these opportunities, which we expect to increase 
the recurring revenue base of the business, 
albeit only with a partial in-year impact.
We expect the share of gross profit being 
generated from legacy product sales to 
continue to decline; however we expect that 
revenues from product and services associated 
with Splunk should increase this year as the 
trend for Big Data continues to accelerate.
We remain cautious on operational investment 
in the overhead base; however we do remain 
open to taking advantage of opportunities 
that arise to invest in sales and technical 
capability in key areas which we believe 
will add shareholder value.
As stated before we also remain on the 
lookout for acquisitions which meet our 
stringent investing criteria.
I look forward to another successful financial 
year for Accumuli and to providing further 
updates on our progress in the coming months.
Nick Kingsbury
Non-executive chairman
23 June 2014