 02
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Group overview
The year under review began with promise -  
a clear plan to complete the integration  
of Wilson Bowden and to satisfy the 
burgeoning demand for our homes. Aligned  
to these objectives was the opportunity  
to apply the best from both organisations  
to increase efficiency, improve the use of 
IT across the Group and enhance sales, 
particularly in the new area of web  
based marketing. 
The Executive Team made substantial 
progress in meeting these objectives, 
delivering synergies and improving 
operational performance. However, as  
the year progressed and trading  
conditions softened, it became clear that  
it was essential to change our priorities  
and reconfigure the business in response  
to the sharp deterioration in the market.  
The market
After a sustained period of growth in terms  
of volume and price, the residential property 
market has now entered a period of rapid 
decline. This is being reflected in terms of the 
number of transactions, the period of time 
taken to sell a property and the prices that are 
being achieved. UK mortgage approvals for 
house purchases have fallen by 68% during 
the year with the rate of decline intensifying 
through the final quarter.
The reasons have been widely reported  
and analysed. The main cause is the sharp 
reduction in the availability of mortgage 
finance as major lenders have looked to 
repair their own balance sheets by limiting 
lending. The number of mortgage products 
available to the market has fallen from  
15,599 at 30 June 2007 to 3,405 at  
30 June 2008, a fall of 78%. This has 
particularly affected the plight of first time 
buyers who now face greater difficulty  
getting mortgages and are having to raise 
substantially higher deposits. The position  
is vividly illustrated by the fact that whilst 
private sales in our second half fell by  
42.9%, visitors to our sites, looking to buy,  
only fell by 14.8% compared to the same 
period last year. 
We believe it is likely that this situation  
will continue for the foreseeable future.  
Whilst the initial package of measures  
to support home buyers is welcome,  
if the Government wishes to stabilise  
the market further action will be required  
to ensure buyers can secure finance  
for the homes they wish to purchase. 
This is my first report to you as Chairman and 
whilst these are extremely testing times for the 
whole sector, it is already clear to me that this  
is a well run business with skilled employees 
delivering homes of the highest standard.
Chairman's statement
Barratt Developments,  
in its expanded format 
with David Wilson Homes, 
is an outstanding business 
with the breadth of  
skills and products to 
meet the needs of the  
UK housing market. 
1
  Exceptional costs comprise  208.4m of inventory 
write-downs,  24.5m of goodwill impairment, intangible 
assets impairment of  6.2m and restructuring costs  
of  15.9m.  Three month LIBOR versus Bank of England Base Rate
%
Mortgage product availability (total number of products) 
Three month LIBOR (%)                 Bank of England Base Rate (%)                        Source: Moneyfacts
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0 16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
1/7/08 1/9/08 1/5/08 1/3/08 1/1/08 1/11/07 1/9/07 1/7/07
03
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Group overview | Chairman's statement
Performance
Against the backdrop of these market 
conditions, our performance has been 
satisfactory with profit from operations before 
exceptional costs
1
 of  550.2m representing  
a like-for-like
2
 decline of 21.5% on the previous 
year (restated
3
). Falling like-for-like
2
 sales 
revenues have been partially offset by a good 
performance on reducing costs. 
As conditions became progressively more 
difficult, we felt it prudent to create sufficient 
additional headroom to enable the Group to 
trade through the declining market. We therefore 
started discussions with our lenders about 
rescheduling debt and amending covenants.  
It is a great tribute to the management of the 
Group that they were able to complete these 
complex and difficult negotiations at a time of 
very significant distress in the financial markets. 
 
The strengthening of our funding position has 
enabled the organisation to focus on a clear  
set of priorities - pursuing sales as effectively  
as possible, reducing our costs with renewed 
vigour and managing our working capital 
aggressively. At the same time we must do 
everything we can to protect the fundamental 
infrastructure of the business. 
Initial observations
I joined the Company on 1 June 2008 and 
have spent as much of my time as possible 
visiting divisions and our operating sites.  
I have been impressed with the quality  
of our finished product and the process  
to create it. This combined with our 
exceptional sales and presentational skills 
enable us to serve the market in a sector 
leading manner. Where planning conditions 
allow, the Group has the skills and 
experience to design, build and sell homes 
by creating an environment in which people 
want to live. The Group has the capability  
in depth to tackle successfully all forms  
of residential construction, from complex 
urban brownfield sites to greenfield 
developments in every region of the  
country, from luxury homes to first time  
buyer products. 
I have great confidence in our people to 
manage through these challenging conditions 
and ensure that we are positioned as the 
leader as conditions improve. In tough times, it 
is not only shareholders that suffer but also the 
staff. I wish to record the Board's appreciation 
and thanks for their professionalism, 
commitment and all-pervasive enthusiasm. 
Board
The current Board has a great breadth  
of experience and a rounded approach to 
issues. I take no credit for this - Charles Toner 
chaired the Company for six years and 
created the current Board. He retired at the 
end of the financial year and whilst he leaves 
the industry during a period of significant 
challenges, his legacy is an effective Board 
that will take the right decisions. We wish him  
a long, healthy and fulfilling retirement.
On 1 May 2008, Mark Rolfe joined the Board 
and in August took over the Chairmanship  
of the Audit Committee from Michael Pescod. 
Mark brings a tremendous breadth of financial 
experience to the Board and I know that  
the Audit Committee will continue to be in 
good hands.  
Dividend
Given the steep decline in market conditions, 
which was not foreseen at the half year,  
the Board has decided that the requirement  
to conserve cash is paramount. We have 
therefore reluctantly decided not to pay  
a final dividend so the dividend for the year 
is 12.23p, a decline of 65.7%. Going forward, 
the Board will take due consideration  
of market conditions, the Group's trading 
performance and cash resources in 
determining future dividend policy. Our 
objective is to pay a dividend at the earliest 
appropriate opportunity. 
Priorities
We have a strong Executive Team and I am 
confident that they have set the right priorities 
and are executing them with energy and 
precision. Barratt Developments, in its 
expanded format with David Wilson Homes,  
is an outstanding business with the breadth  
of skills and products to meet the needs of  
the UK housing market. I believe that upon  
the market's recovery, your Company will  
be the market leader and recognised for 
excellence in product and financial returns.  
In the meantime there will continue to be a 
ruthless focus on operational performance.
Bob Lawson 
Chairman
9 September 2008
2
     Like-for-like' basis assumes that the acquisition of Wilson Bowden was completed on the first day of the comparative period.  
Wilson Bowden achieved 6,052 completions, revenue of  1,422.1m, operating profit of  219.2m, and a profit before tax of  191.7m  
in the twelve months ended 30 June 2007. Prior to acquisition, Wilson Bowden achieved 4,401 completions, revenue of  1,042.5m,  
operating profit of  165.3m (including  22.7m of exceptional costs) and profit before tax of  141.2m.
3
   The results for the year ended 30 June 2007 have been restated as explained in note 1 to the financial statements. 
The reasons have been widely reported  
and analysed. The main cause is the sharp 
reduction in the availability of mortgage 
finance as major lenders have looked to 
repair their own balance sheets by limiting 
lending. The number of mortgage products 
available to the market has fallen from  
15,599 at 30 June 2007 to 3,405 at  
30 June 2008, a fall of 78%. This has 
particularly affected the plight of first time 
buyers who now face greater difficulty  
getting mortgages and are having to raise 
substantially higher deposits. The position  
is vividly illustrated by the fact that whilst 
private sales in our second half fell by  
42.9%, visitors to our sites, looking to buy,  
only fell by 14.8% compared to the same 
period last year. 
We believe it is likely that this situation  
will continue for the foreseeable future.  
Whilst the initial package of measures  
to support home buyers is welcome,  
if the Government wishes to stabilise  
the market further action will be required  
to ensure buyers can secure finance  
for the homes they wish to purchase. 
1
  Exceptional costs comprise  208.4m of inventory 
write-downs,  24.5m of goodwill impairment, intangible 
assets impairment of  6.2m and restructuring costs  
of  15.9m. 