 Overview
It seems that it is becoming a regular starting point to begin 
the Chairman's Statement with words to the effect that  the 
year has been another tough year for UK retailers' - I make 
no apologies for saying that 2012/13 was no exception as it 
has indeed been one of the most challenging years in the retail 
sector for some time. Although the government statistics tell us 
that the UK economy has returned to growth, the purchasing 
power of consumers remains very much under pressure from 
food shopping prices and energy bills, which have both risen 
at a much steeper rate than household wages. Belts have 
to be tightened as there is less disposable income than last 
year, consequently consumers continue to keep a tight rein 
on expenditure and consequently confidence is subdued.
Beales is a business in turnaround and I am pleased to report 
it has made positive progress in 2012/13 towards the Group's 
major objective of returning our business to profitability. I say 
this because we have concentrated and focused our efforts 
and resources, to the very best of our ability, on what we can 
control. We continue to offer great value, brands and quality 
products to our customers through the balanced mix of own 
bought products and concession brands that has benefited 
margin in the year. Our loyalty programme has attracted  
c.350,000 members since its launch in May 2012. Our people, 
throughout the business, have embraced the discipline of 
fiscal responsibility, understood the value that giving great 
customer service has to differentiate us from competitors and 
benefit future business and there is a shared desire by all staff 
to play their part in the turnaround. We have continued to 
invest carefully, with focused investment in the infrastructure to 
facilitate our online business in the future and are pleased with 
the results achieved. Much work remains to be done and the 
road ahead will be long and bumpy, but the turnaround has 
started to gain momentum and Beales has ended the year in a 
stronger position.
Chairman's Statement
W illiam T uffy 
Chairman
Beales is a business in turnaround and I 
am pleased to report it has made positive 
progress in 2012/13
23140.04   13 March 2014 10:23 AM   Proof 5
Beale PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.beales.co.uk
07
Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials
07 Chairman's Statement continued
Results
The Group loss before tax for the year (52 weeks ended  
2 November 2013) was  4.0m after exceptional charges of 
 0.8m (further details of which are detailed in the Financial 
Review) and represents a 30.7% improvement on the previous 
year (53 weeks ended 3 November 2012  5.8m loss after 
exceptional charges of  2.1m). This significant improvement 
was achieved as a result of the full year benefit of the cost 
saving initiatives started last year and despite the negative 
impact of several factors outside the control of the Group (i.e. 
one week less in the financial year, abnormal weather conditions 
which affected sales of seasonal fashion merchandise in Spring 
and Autumn and the failure/underperformance of a number 
of concession partners in product areas which are key to the 
overall department store offer).
Gross sales (including VAT and Concession Sales) for the 52 
weeks ended 2 November 2013 were  120.5m (53 weeks 
ended 3 November 2012  135.5m). Gross profit for the year 
was  33.4m (2012  37.8m and was achieved at an improved 
margin of 52.1% (2012: 50.6%). As I have mentioned above, 
we traded for one week less in 2013 and sales were negatively 
impacted by several uncontrollable factors. Sales were also 
affected by Board decisions to close three stores (Skipton, 
Maidstone and Cinderford); to change the operation of 22 
restaurants/cafes within Beales stores from being run by Beales 
to being run by concessionaires; to exit from low margin TV and 
Audio categories and to change the trading stance in order to 
move away from  mega' promotions which chased sales at the 
detriment of margin, devaluing the Beales brand proposition and 
confusing our core customers. 
Excluding the preference shares, net debt of  8.4m at 
2 November 2013 is  0.4m below the previous year (2012: 
 8.8m) due, essentially, to a combination of the move to Burdale 
from HSBC and a reduction of the ARCS/Panther indebtedness.
A more detailed review of Group performance can be found in 
the Chief Executive's Statement on pages 10 to 12. The financial 
results are discussed in greater detail in the Financial Review on 
pages 13 to 15.
Trading update
Beales saw a very slow start to the new financial year with 
like for like sales after 7 weeks down 9.7% versus the same 
period last year. Some of this decline will be attributable to 
the cessation of  mega' promotions which in the prior year 
generated, heightened sales at little or no margin and the 
exit from the TV/Audio sector; however it still reflects the fact 
that the customers were restricted in terms of lower disposal 
incomes in the run-in to Christmas and the increasing tendency 
to shop later and later in the pre-Christmas period. 
The 14 days of Christmas saw like for like sales increase 4.1% 
as shoppers resorted to local high streets for late Christmas 
shopping. Post-Christmas, customers were chasing a bargain 
with  sale rails' the first port of call for many customers entering 
the stores. The first three weeks of the new calendar year saw 
like for like sales increase 9.0%, which even allowing for the 
snow and ice in the prior year, reflects a good growth. The 
end of January and the start of February have been materially 
affected by the flooding and inclement weather that continue to 
affect the UK and like for like sales are behind 5.6% compared 
to the same period last year.
Overall, for the first 16 weeks of the current financial year 
compared to the same period last year, like for like sales are 
behind 4.4%.
Board succession
Following Tony Brown's departure on 8 February 2013, the 
Board took the decisions to appoint Michael Hitchcock as 
Chief Executive and increase the scope and enhance the 
responsibilities of Tony Richard's role as Trading Director.
On 23 April 2013, Stuart Lyons was appointed as non-
independent non-executive director (representing the interests 
of Panther Securities Plc and Andrew Perloff's other family 
interests, which together hold 29.72% of the Group's issued 
share capital), replacing Simon Peters. On 21 October 2013, 
following Stuart's decision to step down, we welcomed Simon 
back to the Board.
On 18 July 2013, Catherine Norgate-Hart was appointed non-
executive director bringing a wealth of retail product and buying 
experience to the Board. We are delighted to have Catherine 
on the Board and we look forward to her continued valuable 
contribution.
On 12 September 2013, Keith Edelman left the Board and I was 
appointed Chairman as his successor. Keith joined Beales as 
non-executive director in September 2008 and was appointed 
Chairman in November 2011. On behalf of the Board and all of 
the staff at Beales, I would like to thank him for his considerable 
contribution and wise counsel. Following my appointment as 
Chairman, Catherine has taken up the chairmanship of the 
remuneration committee and will be the senior independent 
non-executive director.
23140.04   13 March 2014 10:23 AM   Proof 5
Beale PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.beales.co.uk
08 Staff
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to give 
special thanks to all Beales staff throughout our Company - in 
stores and head office - for all of their dedication, hard work and 
considerable efforts during the year. In particular, I would like to 
thank them for embracing the change of culture and recognise 
the importance of the massive contribution they make to our 
business.
It is also right to recognise our concessions partners, our 
suppliers and AIS, our buying group, for their contribution during 
the past year.
Banking facilities and going concern
We are pleased with the financial support and partnership 
extended to us by Burdale with whom we began a three year 
loan facility in February 2013. 
As you would expect, the Group continues to manage its cash 
very closely and has met all of its banking covenants during 
the 2013 year. I have already mentioned that Beales operates 
in a very challenging and competitive trading environment and 
there are a number of risks and uncertainties facing the Group 
that are likely to impact its future development, performance 
and position. The Board continually assesses the Group's 
performance and manages those risks and uncertainties by 
careful consideration of the appropriate resources required 
by the Group. The Board believes that the Group should be 
able to operate within its borrowing facilities and the Board 
has therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the annual report and accounts, as detailed in the 
Financial Review.
Outlook
Despite government statistical evidence indicating the 
resumption of growth in the UK economy, retailers and retail 
commentators agree that it is unlikely that consumer confidence 
will return quickly in 2014 and that the consensus prediction is 
that the road to a consumer led recovery will be long. If, on the 
other hand, one is optimistic about increased economic growth 
in 2014, this may accelerate the spectre of intervention by the 
Bank of England to increase interest rates, which will it itself 
lead to a further squeeze on disposable income. Either way, I 
conclude it would be illogical to assume that 2014 will see a 
significant increase in consumer spending and therefore I believe 
we can expect another tough year. As I said earlier, we at Beales 
will continue to concentrate and focus all of our effort and 
resources on what we can control to the very best of our ability.
Finally, I would like to pay particular thanks to Michael 
Hitchcock for his exemplary leadership and, together with 
Tony Richards, for their significant contributions thus far as the 
Executive Directors charged with the responsibility to deliver the 
turnaround of this business.
William Tuffy
Independent 
Non-Executive Chairman
23140.04   13 March 2014 10:23 AM   Proof 5
09
Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials
Beale PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.beales.co.uk
Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials
09