 Begbies Traynor Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 30 April 2007  
Page 2   
Executive Chairman's Review 
 
Chairman's Statement 
 
Begbies Traynor Group continues its strategy of development of a range of specialist professional 
services, primarily to the business community. Our key resource is the expertise of our people and I 
thank all of those who have contributed to another year of profitable growth in our operations. We 
now have 385 direct fee earners (an increase of 16 % from a year ago) and 120 in support functions. 
As well as welcoming our new UK based people, I am particularly pleased to report that we now have 
26 approved members of our BGN international network, covering 41 countries around the world and 
I also welcome all the people in those organisations to the wider Begbies family. With applications to 
join BGN from another 45 firms in process and our pipeline of UK acquisitions, I look forward to 
welcoming many more people over the coming months. 
 
 
Results and Financial Developments 
 
The group had a turnover in the year to 30 April 2007 of  45m and passed a milestone in its growth 
by delivering an operating profit (EBITA) of over  10m for the first time. This is an increase of 29% 
over 2006 and translates into adjusted earnings per share of 8.2pence, an increase of 22% in the 
year. 
 
Operating margin held steady at over 22%. The spr ead of our central overhead cost across a broader 
base was offset by two specific factors; our investment in the initial set up of the BGN international 
network, which, due to the initial success, will continue in the current year, and the difficulties 
experienced in the consumer debt solutions market in England, from which the Group was not wholly 
immune, despite our low exposure to this sector. 
 
The combination of rising interest rates and our expenditure on acquisitions in the summer of 2006 
increased our cost of borrowing by some  300k in the year. In response, the board took advantage of 
latent institutional demand for the Company's shares in March of this year to raise  7.8m (net of 
costs) of new equity investment through a placing. This also had the advantage of widening our 
institutional shareholder base and I am pleased to welcome our new equity partners. In particular, 
Caledonia Investments plc took the opportunity to acquire a 9% holding in the Company as a long 
term investor and its support is already beginning to assist us in our commercial development. 
 
In the year, we converted 72% of EBITDA into cash, reflecting the working capital absorption of our 
continuing growth profile. 
 
The Group acquired five businesses in the year, the details of which are shown in note 7 to the 
financial statements, all of which have performed to expectations and have been fully integrated. 
Since 30 April 2007, we have made (at the time of writing) two further acquisitions (see note 15), 
which mark our entrance into new professional service streams; fiscal consulting and ICT systems 
enhancement. 
 
  Begbies Traynor Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 30 April 2007  
Page 3   
 
 
 
Operational Review 
 
Our traditional core activity of UK business rescue and recovery services continues to operate in a 
stable and flat market. This is despite the macro indicators of rising interest rates and increasing 
leverage in businesses in the SME and mid market sectors, which point to impending instability. We 
believe that the current ready availability of increased business credit continues to postpone the need 
for action to address fundamental business issues, but we stand ready to assist all stakeholders to 
resolve those issues when they become critical. In the meantime, we continue our strategy of market 
share capture in this specialist professional service, through acquisitions and senior recruitment, as 
well as adding to our skill base to provide a wider range of solutions to business challenges. 
 
The addition of corporate finance services to the Group portfolio, which we continue to expand, has 
augmented our ability to offer solutions to underperforming businesses and we have plans in place to 
further widen our support services beyond the realms of financial structuring into operational and 
management change consulting. In addition, we have, through recruitment, developed a national 
commercial finance expertise to assist businesses to access appropriate funding to meet their 
working capital needs. 
 
We do not, however, see corporate finance as a mere adjunct to our recovery services. Our highly 
skilled professionals in the field are equally able to secure finance for robust developing companies 
and to assist them with acquisitions and disposals; an activity in which they continue to excel. We are 
also developing transaction support services to providers of risk finance. 
 
The forensic and wider investigative expertises within the Group also assist the rescue and recovery 
and corporate finance operations, as well as providi ng support to other professionals in litigation 
support, fraud investigations, debt collection and risk management in their own right. We have 
evolved a plan for this activity to concentrate our efforts on added value services to optimise margins. 
 
We continue to provide services to the over-extended consumer debt market. 
 
In England, the dramatic growth in IVAs as the solution of choice has been stifled by concerns voiced 
by creditor and consumer watchdog groups; a development which we foresaw. In response, we took 
steps to widen our range of professional service offering in this market, to include debt restructuring 
and management, and decided to curtail growth in our activities in marketing the provision of IVAs 
until new market norms emerge, which has yet to occur. This, inevitably, has led to a reduction in 
operating margin in the short term. As a result, the value of the conditional deferred considerations on 
the acquisition of this business significantly reduced and have been settled out, as set out in note 14 
to the financial statements. We believe that the inherent demand for solutions in the consumer debt 
market remains and that a fair market for all parties will emerge, which will deliver an adequate 
margin to us as providers of suitable professionally based solutions. Once that platform is 
established, which I think may take at least a year, we will grow our presence in this market. 
 
In contrast, the market for consumer debt solutions in Scotland, which is already Court regulated and, 
therefore, not the subject of criticism, continues to expand. We have continued our profitable organic 
growth in this market, through our expanding office network, to become a close second placed 
provider of such services, hard on the heels of the specialist market leader.  Begbies Traynor Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 30 April 2007  
Page 4   
 
 
 
Commercial Development 
 
We continue to evolve and pursue our strategy of widening our  business to business' specialist 
professional consultancy services, which we offer through our national network of independent 
professionals to their clients, as well as promoting them directly to business managers, investors and 
proprietors.  
 
During 2007, we have established, by recruitment, both the commercial finance unit mentioned above 
and a new division providing valuation and disposal services in respect of property, plant and 
equipment. 
 
Since our financial year end, we have entered, through acquisition, the fields of fiscal and ICT 
consulting (see note 15 to the financial statements). BTG Financial Partners provides expert advice 
on complex taxation issues to businesses and individuals and BTG Servisional provides consultancy 
and software enhancements to improve CRM system s and their interface with other business 
systems. Both these acquisitions provide starting points from which to grow our activities in these 
specialist areas, which will be readily marketable through our network of professional contacts. 
 
 
Looking to the Future 
 
My  crystal ball' is as cloudy as everyone's, so I cannot predict if and when a general UK market 
downturn will occur. I do know, however, that the B egbies Traynor Group is better placed than ever to 
respond to the needs of businesses facing difficulties. A period of relative stability in the Company's 
share price has allowed me to observe, for the first time, an el ement of counter-cyclic behaviour in 
the market's assessment of our value by comparison to the movements in the FTSE 100 index over 
the first six months of this year. Business recovery services remain at the core of the Group and will 
underpin that counter cyclical value when the level of business stress increases. 
 
The Board is not, however, content to wait for an in crease in business problems alone to drive growth 
in shareholder value. We have developed a strategy for profitable growth in specialist professional 
services and begun to enact that plan. We now have six distinct service streams, all with growth 
potential, and we are actively considering entry into more compatible areas of professional expertise.  
 
Pursuit of profitable growth demands increased senior management resource to drive and control the 
Group; a need which we are addressing through the recruitment of experienced and talented 
individuals. Consequently, I remain confident of achieving our goal of doubling the turnover, profits 
and value of the Group over the next three years. 
 
 
 
 
Ric Traynor 
4 July 2007