 07 06 Belgravium
Technologies plc
21310-04  29/03/2012 Proof 3
Our Business
Chairman's Statement
Last year I said in my statement we expect Belgravium to 
return to growth in 2011  and I'm delighted to say that this 
has proved completely accurate with the Group significantly 
increasing both revenue and profits year-on-year. In addition 
the Group's balance sheet and cash position has significantly 
strengthened. As a result I am delighted to report that the 
board now intends to restore dividend payments.
Results
Revenues in the year increased by over 36% to  11,157,000 
compared to  8,200,000 last year. On this revenue, 
Belgravium has more than doubled pre-tax profit to 
 1,024,000 compared to  432,000 last year. In addition, 
the continuing investment in capital projects, research and 
development, has helped reduce the tax charge to  148,000. 
As a consequence basic earnings per ordinary share have 
risen to 0.87p which is also more than double the 0.38p per 
share recorded in 2010.
Whilst sales have grown by 36% in 2011, administration 
expenses have been managed carefully and are only 6% 
higher than the previous year. 
A major financial objective has been to repay the term loan. 
During 2011, operating activities generated  1,738,000 
and so this policy has continued without limitation to capital 
expenditure. I am delighted to report that since the year end 
the term loan has been fully repaid and that the Group is now 
debt free. At the year end cash equivalents amounted to 
 1,220,000 compared with  346,000 in 2010. 
Dividend 
We have always indicated that once conditions improved, 
the Group would restore payment of dividends to ordinary 
shareholders. Subject to shareholders' approval at the AGM, 
it is the Board's intention to pay a dividend of 0.10 pence 
per Ordinary Share on 20 June 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 25 May 2012. 
Operational review
The Group achieved a strong financial performance 
despite the difficult economic conditions and has made 
progress on a number of fronts to position itself well 
for the future. As has been the case for some years, 
customers remain reluctant to commit to what are 
perceived as significant capital projects but appear more 
willing to agree projects of a profit and loss account 
nature. Our success has been largely down to our 
ability to develop sales opportunities where we have 
been able to demonstrate the economic benefits of 
using Belgravium's complete services, which include 
hardware, software and increasingly support services as 
part of a  wrapped' solution. Often, as a result we are 
able to provide a solution, which gives customers better 
value and added functionality, which we believe will be a 
continuing feature of our success.
Belgravium has continued to develop new mobile 
computing devices and maintains an on-going process 
of consulting with clients to add increasing refinements 
and functionality across the entire range, working hard to 
identify trends and keep ahead of their needs. As a result 
the group has developed three new products during 
2011 which will be launched in 2012. These include a 
new version of the  Boston', the  Hawk' and the truck 
mounted  Vienna'.
Review of sales 
The Belgravium Group supplies and manages a 
comprehensive range of mobile computing services and 
solutions with a focus on the logistics, transportation and 
on-board retailing sectors.  Belgravium Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year end 31 December 2011
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
www.belgravium-technologies.com
07
21310-04  29/03/2012 Proof 3
New Products
2012 will also see the Group launch three new core products: Boston 8550, Vienna 7500 and 
Hawk II. These products have been developed in conjunction with our existing client base and  
are an evolution of a product range that our reputation and success is built on.
KEY DEVELOPMENTS 
We build and evolve our products and 
deliverables around our customers, as 
their requirements evolve, so do our sales 
offerings. As a result, we are no longer 
merely a hardware manufacturer, we now 
embrace software development, systems 
integration, IT consultancy and service wrap 
solutions.
Belgravium T echnologies specialise in 
building  fit for purpose' data capture 
solutions. Should we not be able to supply 
a total in house developed solution, our 
strategy has seen us align ourselves with 
a number of key strategic hardware and 
software partners to guarantee that a best fit 
solution is always established. The primary 
intention is to always satisfy the customer 
needs with a solution from us, rather than 
lose the sale.
Hawk II, the new rugged and 
detachable, on-board touch-
tablet brings low lifetime costs 
and greater computing power 
to the mobile workforce. 
Produced especially, but not 
exclusively, for fuel distributors 
the latest product, Hawk II is a 
 tour de force' in both design 
and ingenuity and is suitable 
even for the most rigorous use 
in the most extreme conditions.
Hawk II
The Vienna 7500 Series offers 
high end mobile computing 
performance within an 
ergonomic, compact and 
robust design. Offering the 
highest level of automation, it is 
the ideal industrial terminal for 
warehouse and logistics based 
vehicle mount and fork lift truck 
applications.
Vienna 7500
The multimodal Boston 
8550 facilitates superior data 
collection, from scanning to 
voice to RFID. The real-time 
communication and dynamic 
functionality provides startling 
productivity and efficiency 
gains that will revolutionise 
data capture for a variety of 
user applications including: 
Warehousing and Logistics, 
Proof of Delivery (POD), Van 
Sales & Electronic Point of 
Sales (EPOS) and Field Service.
Boston 8550 09 08 Belgravium
Technologies plc
21310-04  29/03/2012 Proof 3
Our Business
Chairman's Statement continued
In the year, the Group actively worked alongside its strategic 
partners to capture a greater market share, particularly in the 
on-board retail sector where its system is now consistently 
being chosen over competing products. As a result several 
significant new contracts have been won in the period and 
there is a healthy pipeline of new prospects. Belgravium now 
provides a retail solution system to over 50 airlines in the world. 
Notable contracts won in the period include:
Belgravium supplied a solution for Hermes, formerly Parcelnet; 
the UK's largest courier based home delivery company 
handling more than 140 million parcels per annum. Belgravium 
provided a complete managed service to Hermes ensuring 
accurate data capture and proof of delivery information at key 
tracking points. Belgravium supplied in excess of 600  Atlanta' 
mobile terminals, with the solution installed across 23 depots 
in a six-week period. 
A large French energy company and a customer that 
Belgravium has worked with for several years awarded 
the replacement contract to equip 1,200 vehicles with the 
 Raven' mobile tablet device and associated software. This 
contract will continue during 2012 with a total contract value 
of approximately  3.3 million. This contract requires on-going 
sales and technical services to ensure that the customer's 
changing needs are met.
Belgravium, together with its strategic partner Tourvest Duty 
Free, won the software and hardware contract to provide an 
on-board, in-flight retail system for British Airways in the last 
quarter of 2011. The system, using our SkyPOS software, 
utilises around 1,900 Kestrel handsets. The whole solution, 
which included the training of British Airways staff and cabin 
crew, installation and testing, was completed within a very 
short time and the system is proving to be both reliable and 
easy to use. As a result, the Group is confident of continued 
growth in this market in the coming years.
All three of these contracts were won against strong 
competition and were eventually awarded on the greater merits 
of our solutions and managed services, which will ensure 
both further business and repeat revenues. Our focussed 
sales policy has produced results in 2011. To continue to 
capture increasing opportunities, the Board is committed to 
strengthening the sales team to enable greater geographic 
coverage. The impact of this policy will be evident in 2013 and 
beyond.
Employees
The outcome of lengthy contract negotiations is often the 
requirement to design and install a system in a timescale 
which a few years ago would have been thought 
impossible. This situation has arisen regularly throughout 
2011, quite often with last minute technical changes. 
As always, our staff at all levels have responded to the 
challenges with energy and enthusiasm. During the year 
we were delighted to be able to award a well deserved 
pay review for an understanding and loyal workforce. 
There is no doubt that the adverse market conditions 
of the recent years have produced a tested and highly 
confident team, well capable of coping with future 
challenges.
Outlook
2011 was a very good year for Belgravium in which 
it delivered a strong financial performance and made 
substantial progress in achieving its commercial 
objectives. The Group now has a strengthened market 
position and is well placed to capture future opportunities 
as they arise and make further progress. The current year 
has commenced in line with expectations but as usual 
there is limited visibility on the level of future sales and 
with the general economic climate, it remains cautious 
at this stage as to the levels of growth achievable in the 
current year.
J P Kembery
Executive Chairman
6 March 2012