 PAgE 2
Beowulf Mining Plc (RegiSTeReD nuMBeR: 02330496) 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
The Board of Beowulf Mining Plc (Beowulf  or the Company ) 
is pleased to present the Company's results for the year ended 31 
December 2009. Beowulf currently has eight projects in Northern 
Sweden primarily prospecting for iron, copper, gold and uranium. The 
results show that Beowulf incurred a loss after taxation for the year of 
 591,877 (2008:  398,664).
While the natural resource sector has to a large extent recovered from 
the doom and gloom of 2008/2009, it has not yet returned to the 
buoyant conditions of earlier years. For Beowulf, however, the last year 
has been one of continued progress.
Ruoutevare and Kallak projects (iron ore)
The Company's main Ruoutevare magnetite iron ore project in 
Norrbotten County, Northern Sweden has a maiden inferred JORC 
resource estimate, completed by independent geological consultants 
Runge Limited in August 2008, of 140 million tonnes grading 39.1% 
iron (Fe), 5.7% titanium (Ti) and 0.2% vanadium (V) (cut-off grade of 
30% Fe).
In April 2009, we announced the results of metallurgical tests 
conducted by MINPRO AB's (MINPRO ) research laboratory at 
Str ssa, Central Sweden on material from Ruoutevare which confirmed 
that by applying reduction techniques in a laboratory scale simulation 
of a mechanical oven, it was possible to produce a final product of 
high grade sponge iron powder containing 97% iron (Fe) and less 
than 0.5% titanium (TiO2), and 0.02% vanadium (V). To complement 
these encouraging results, in June 2009 the Company commissioned 
enlarged metallurgical tests, at bench scale, to further validate and 
optimise the earlier defined reduction technique process.
In November 2009, it was reported that working on crushed and 
milled ore material tests showed that a final sponge iron powder 
containing up to 90% iron (Fe) with 1.5% titanium (Ti) is obtainable. 
The initial grades of Fe 52.1% and TiO2 11.4% from the milled ore 
material studied, compared very favourably with a 1970s study by the 
geological Survey of Sweden (SgU ) showing grades of Fe 53% and 
TiO2 12.3%. A further update in December 2009 on tests conducted 
to optimise the process, showed a 5% increase to 95% in the iron 
content of the final product versus the November results. It was also 
reported that new bench tests to assess the possibility of producing a 
high grade pellet feed from the ore had been successful, resulting in a 
magnetite pellet feed product containing 67.8% Fe of high commercial 
quality with low levels of contaminating metals. MINPRO has indicated 
that the ongoing test programme to apply the reduction/segregation 
process should further improve the quality of the sponge iron powder 
obtainable from the Ruoutevare deposit.
The MINPRO study commissioned in June 2009 also included 
ore material from the Company's Kallak iron ore deposit. Results 
from qualitative metallurgical testing on the Kallak ore material are 
anticipated to be available in early March 2010.
In addition to the metallurgical test programmes, in July 2009 the 
Company commissioned international consultants, Raw Materials 
group (RMg ) of Sweden, to commence an initial conceptual study 
on Kallak and update its 2006 scoping study on Ruoutevare, using 
the Company's most recent geological and technical data, with the 
objective of further defining the commerciality of these two projects. 
The updated conceptual study on Ruoutevare was completed in 
February 2010 and showed that Ruoutevare contains a significant 
resource of iron ore close to the surface and is very amenable to 
open-pit mining. On the basis of its conceptual financial analysis, RMg 
concluded that the project is robust and can potentially generate in 
excess of US$3 billion in net cash flow over a 15 year mine life.  Such 
results warrant further drilling and analytical work on the project. The 
final report will be released in the near future while a separate report 
on Kallak is anticipated to be received from RMg shortly.
Ballek and grundtrask projects (copper-gold-uranium)
The second of the Company's projects to attain a JORC standard 
inferred resource estimate to date is the Lulepotten copper-gold 
deposit on the Ballek joint venture with an estimated 5.4 million 
tonnes grading 0.8% copper and 0.3 g/t of gold, representing a total 
of 43,000 tonnes of contained copper metal and 52,000 ounces of 
contained gold using a cut-off value of 0.3% for copper. Lulepotten 
currently forms the largest copper deposit within the Company's 
Ballek project area covering close to 11,000 hectares.
In line with our strategy of seeking to enhance and commercialise 
our existing projects, in July 2009 MINPRO were commissioned to 
conduct initial metallurgy tests. Based on a small laboratory sample, 
MINPRO were able to obtain a final copper concentrate, from bench 
scale flotation tests on material from the Lulepotten copper-gold 
deposit, containing 32.4% copper, 320 grammes per tonne (g/t) 
of silver, 29 g/t of tellurium and 5.6 g/t of gold, serving to justify 
further work in the Ballek area.
In September 2009, we were delighted to announce that we had 
acquired back full control of the Ballek project from our previous 
partner, Agricola Resources Plc (Agricola ), and entered into a new 
joint venture agreement with the Australian resource company, Energy 
Ventures Limited (ASX: EVE) (EVE ) on more advantageous terms. 
Under the terms of the new joint venture, EVE has been appointed 
as manager and operator and can earn-in a 50 per cent. interest in 
the project if it sole funds and completes 1,600m of diamond drilling 
on-site by 31 March 2010. As announced in early February 2010, 
and confirmed during a recent site visit by the Board, EVE remains 
on track to meet this deadline with the current drilling programme 
expected to be completed by early March, following which geological 
and sampling activities will be undertaken with results anticipated by 
the end of April 2010.
Preliminary discussions are ongoing with EVE and other potential 
joint venture partners in respect of certain of the Company's other 
projects. other projects
In September 2009, in addition to acquiring back full control of 
Ballek, the Company also strengthened its Swedish asset base through 
the purchase of a package of five highly prospective licences from 
Agricola covering, in aggregate, an area of 148.4km2 in Northern 
Sweden.
The geddaur number 1, 2 and 3 uranium, gold and silver permits 
totalling 131.5km2 are situated adjacent to our existing Ballek Project 
and the Manakjaure uranium permit totalling 5.4km2 is approximately 
120km north of Ballek. We believe that the recent renewed interest in 
nuclear power by the UK, german and Swedish governments serves 
to enhance the attractiveness of the uranium potential in such project 
areas. The Riikalahti nickel permit totalling 11.5km2 is located in the 
Kiruna region.
In November 2009, the Company was also pleased to announce that 
it had been awarded a new exploration licence by the Swedish Mining 
Registrar in Bergsstaten, in respect of the Munka area in Northern 
Sweden, which covers 800 hectares and hosts Sweden's largest, drill 
confirmed deposit of molybdenum.
The Company continues to look for other assets to complement and 
extend its project portfolio.
corporate
In late June 2009, the Company successfully completed a placing 
of 25,000,000 new ordinary shares at a price of 2p per share with 
both new and existing investors to raise  500,000 gross to provide 
additional working capital for the Company's continued exploration 
expenditure and planned growth and development.
Further to the Company's connection agreement with AktieTorget 
AB (www.aktietorget.se) in Stockholm, it provides a facility for the 
Company's ordinary shares to be traded in Sweden in the form 
of Swedish Depositary Receipts (SDRs ). Under this arrangement, 
Beowulf's ordinary shares can be lodged with custodian bank 
Skandinaviska Enavilda Banken AB, via its London agent, HSBC bank, 
as security against the issue of SDRs which can then be traded on the 
Swedish AktieTorget market. As well as affording Swedish investors 
easier access to ownership of a stake in Beowulf, the Board's intention 
was to also increase liquidity and demand for the Company's ordinary 
shares. From an initial tranche of 2,000,000 ordinary shares lodged 
at inception of the facility in August 2008, there are now currently 
in excess of 23,000,000 ordinary shares lodged and traded on 
the AktieTorget via SDRs.  As a company operating in Sweden and 
developing Swedish natural resource assets, this increased level of 
trading and investor support in Sweden continues to be highly 
encouraging.
outlook
Despite another difficult year for the global economy, signs of a 
gradual recovery and increased confidence are now evident and 
the Board continues to believe in the commercial prospects for the 
Company's asset portfolio which has increased in both quantity 
and quality as well as resource type. Demand for both equities and 
commodities recovered strongly in the latter half of 2009 and future 
price trends for copper, gold, iron and uranium bode well for the 
Company's ongoing development.  We will continue to look for new 
projects while seeking further joint venture partners for our existing 
projects and promoting the merits of our portfolio within the 
marketplace and investor community at large.
The Board very much appreciates the assistance and support of the 
Company's employees, advisers and shareholder base and looks forward 
to announcing further progress and project developments throughout 
the remainder of 2010.
Clive Sinclair-Poulton
Executive Chairman
1 March 2010
Beowulf Mining Plc 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
PAgE 3