 www.bg-group.com BG Group 
A year of delivery
Business review 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 8
BG Group benefits from a portfolio of development 
opportunities out to 2020 that is among the most 
attractive in the industry.
Chairman's statement
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman
 There were a number of notable strategic achievements 
during the year which are expected to underpin BG Group's 
growth agenda over the decade ahead. 
The environmental benefits of natural gas 
as a replacement for higher-carbon fossil 
fuels are well understood. It seems likely that 
in certain key markets, governmental policies 
favouring gas for its lower-carbon and urban 
air quality advantages will further strengthen 
the growth in global gas demand over the 
decade ahead.
During the year, there was continued 
divergence between international benchmark 
oil prices and gas prices, with the latter 
remaining well below their 2008 peak. 
In that context, it is important to note that, 
while gas is central to BG Group's portfolio, 
the Group's exposure to oil prices will increase 
considerably. In the very large Asian energy 
markets where BG Group has a growing 
presence, the linkage between gas prices and 
international benchmark oil prices is already 
an established norm. Additionally, Brazilian 
oil sales will make an increasingly significant 
contribution to Group revenues as development 
progresses over the coming years. Further 
details are set out in the Business environment 
and outlook section on pages 18 and 19.
 
Discussion of the oil and gas industry in 2010 
must necessarily refer to the blow-out on  
the BP Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico. 
BG Group has established a dedicated team to 
study investigation findings and to review the 
Group's own operations, enhancing practices, 
where applicable, to reflect lessons learnt. The 
Chief Executive's statement on pages 10 and 11 
provides an overview of the Group's focus on 
safety as its utmost priority.
Portfolio designed to create 
outstanding value
In recent years, BG Group has focused on 
reshaping its global portfolio to maximise the 
potential for shareholder value creation over 
the decade ahead. The resulting strengthened 
and rebalanced portfolio contains a range of 
development opportunities stretching out 
to 2020 that is among the most attractive in 
the industry.
gas joint ventures in the USA. The Board also 
approved the final investment decision to begin 
construction of the Queensland Curtis Liquefied 
Natural Gas (QCLNG) Project in Australia.
Market and industry context
2010 proved to be another difficult year for 
most developed economies. In contrast, some 
markets in the developing world, particularly 
in Asia and South America, have entered the 
new decade with strong momentum and 
confidence. BG Group is well-placed to benefit 
from that momentum, with plans to expand 
its liquefied natural gas (LNG) portfolio to 
meet rapidly growing Asian gas demand - 
particularly in China - while participating in 
the development of the resources that are key 
to the realisation of Brazil's national ambitions.
BG Group performed well in 2010 despite 
mixed trading conditions as the mature 
economies of the developed world began a 
gradual return from recession. Total operating 
profit * of $6 925 million (2009 $6 330 million) 
was 9% higher year-on-year, and earnings 
per share were 18% higher at 118.7 cents 
(2009 100.9 cents). The Board has again 
increased the full-year dividend, up 10% to 
21.60 cents per share (2009 19.63 cents per 
share). Further details of the Group's financial 
performance are set out in the Financial review. 
There were a number of notable strategic 
achievements during the year which are 
expected to underpin BG Group's growth agenda 
over the decade ahead. There was rapid progress 
in the development of the Group's interests in 
the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, and in its shale 
*  For a reconciliation between business performance and 
total results, see note 2 on page 91 and note 10 on page 106.  BG Group 
A year of delivery
www.bg-group.com
9
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Group's business now combines low-cost 
and long-life production assets in countries 
where it is a long-established investor, 
together with the development of ventures 
offering excellent exposure to new resources 
and access to emerging markets. 
There was significant progress with three 
of the most material of those new ventures 
during the period under review. In Brazil, the 
first permanent production facilities on the 
Lula field (formerly known as Tupi) came 
onstream, just four years after the first 
discovery well in the Santos Basin. Less than 
three years after BG Group's first investment in 
Australia, construction is now underway on the 
world-class QCLNG Project. Finally, less than 
two years after its first investment, the Group 
now has total US shale gas resources of more 
than 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent, located 
at the heart of the world's largest gas market. 
Further details are set out under Key business 
developments on pages 14 and 15.
There was good progress elsewhere in the 
portfolio, including UK government approval 
for the development of the Jasmine field, and 
BG Group extended further its strong track 
record in exploration with encouraging early 
indications from wells drilled offshore 
Tanzania and China. I would also add that 
BG Group's operations in North Africa have 
not been materially affected by political 
events in that region to date, although the 
Group will continue to monitor developments 
carefully. For an overview of the Group's 
Exploration and Production (E&P) and LNG 
performance, see pages 20 to 26.
Governance and shareholder 
communications
The revisions to the UK Combined Code - now 
called the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code ) - are intended to stimulate a greater 
degree of shareholder participation, as well as 
encourage greater transparency in corporate 
reporting. The Code also calls for company 
chairmen to report directly to shareholders  
on governance matters. In fact, BG Group has 
always done this: our Governance report can 
be found on pages 50 to 57.
The Group continues to seek ways to enhance 
the quality of reporting to shareholders. Online 
communications offer significant advantages 
in this respect, and I would again encourage 
everyone to take advantage of the Group's 
web-based reporting services whenever 
possible rather than choose to receive printed 
copies of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Shareholders will also note that the Group's 
financial performance is now reported in 
US Dollars. This change to the Group's 
reporting currency, first announced in 2009, 
reflects the fact that the large majority of the 
Group's revenues are US Dollar-denominated, 
and will also aid comparisons with peers. 
However, dividend payments to shareholders 
will continue to be paid in Pound Sterling, 
which will also remain the currency of the 
Group's share capital.
The Board
There were a number of changes to the Board 
during the period under review. Caio Koch-Weser 
was appointed to the Board in November and 
Patrick Thomas was appointed in December. 
I would like to welcome both to the Board. 
J rgen Dormann retired from the Board on 
31 December 2010, and Mark Seligman was 
appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
in December, succeeding Lord Sharman. I would 
like to thank J rgen Dormann for his contribution 
to the Group. 
Lord Sharman has advised us that he does not 
intend to stand for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2011. He has been a 
Director of BG Group for 11 years and served 
for most of that time as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. We have greatly benefited from 
his important contribution.
On 31 March 2011, BG Group Chief Financial 
Officer Ashley Almanza will stand down from 
the Board. Ashley has played a significant role 
in developing BG Group since its inception and 
he leaves the Board with our gratitude and 
best wishes for the future. Finally, I would like 
to welcome Fabio Barbosa to BG Group, who 
has been appointed to the Board as Chief 
Financial Officer, effective 31 March 2011.
The future
Over the next few years, BG Group will be 
making very large investments in offshore Brazil, 
in coal seam gas to LNG in Australia, and in shale 
gas developments in the USA. These projects 
will lead to a profound change in the nature, 
geographic spread and scale of the Group's 
business. For example, unconventional gas 
resources (such as those in Australia and the 
USA) played no role in the portfolio three years 
ago, but are expected to account for around a 
quarter of production by the end of the decade.
Taken together, these developments offer 
great opportunity for this evolving business. 
The capital expenditure demands, at around 
$21 billion over the next two years, are 
obviously substantial and are expected to 
lead to an increase in BG Group's gearing level, 
with an anticipated peak in 2013 or 2014 
followed by decline thereafter. I would add, 
however, that the Group expects its strong 
cash flow growth and robust balance sheet 
to support the funding of both the capital 
expenditure programme and future dividends.
The success of BG Group during the last decade 
is the consequence of the skills and efforts of 
the people in the Group. I thank them for their 
expertise and commitment.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
Dividend per share
21.60 cents (+10%)
 
2009 19.63 cents 