 As BG Group continues to focus on the execution of 
its growth programme, it is opening a new chapter 
in its evolution as an international energy business. 
The major investments in Brazil and Australia are 
on track to propel the Group to a leading position 
in the global energy market of 2020 and beyond.
Chairman's statement
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman
In the USA, BG Group's landmark purchase agreement 
for the supply of LNG from Sabine Pass represents an 
innovative move, designed to secure early-mover advantage 
in LNG export volumes from the US Gulf Coast. 
flooding in Queensland, contributed to difficult 
conditions. Where there were impacts on 
BG Group operations, the situation has been 
managed well and, overall, disruption has been 
modest. That said, the full consequences of 
far-reaching political changes in North Africa 
are not yet clear, and significant uncertainty also 
continues to surround the sovereign debt crisis 
in Europe. Despite recent turmoil in Europe, 
global economic growth is holding up, bolstered 
by strength in China and emerging markets and, 
to a lesser extent, in the USA. We expect global 
economic growth to exceed 3% in 2012, with 
emerging markets growing on average by nearly 
6%. Economic uncertainties are set to continue, 
but BG Group remains optimistic about the 
outlook for those economies that matter 
most to the Group.
Energy industry context
Looking to the longer term, BG Group 
continues to expect gas demand growth 
to strengthen across all regions. The Group 
anticipates that many countries will be unable 
to meet rising demand from domestic supplies 
alone and will need increasing imports of 
pipeline gas and LNG. By 2025, it is anticipated 
that China will become the second largest LNG 
importer (after Japan) and India will be third. In 
many emerging economies, structural drivers 
such as urbanisation, population growth, rising 
incomes and increasing consumption should 
lead to continued economic growth and even 
stronger growth in gas demand.
On track for growth
The year saw good progress with our major 
investment projects in Brazil and Australia. 
In Brazil, significant progress was made with 
the development programme of offshore 
production facilities. In Australia, coal seam 
gas field developments and construction of 
the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) project 
continued to advance. In the USA, BG Group's 
landmark purchase agreement for the supply 
cash flow and the Group's major investment 
plans. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 12.96 cents per share (8.19 pence 
per share), increasing the full year dividend by 
10% to 23.76 cents per share (14.82 pence per 
share), compared with last year. Further details 
are set out in the Financial review on pages 
40 to 44.
Volatile macro environment
By any standards, 2011 was a politically and 
economically volatile year. The financial crisis 
in the eurozone, political upheaval in North 
Africa and the Middle East, and other localised 
physical disruptions, such as the severe 
BG Group made good progress in advancing 
its development programme in 2011, despite 
sustained economic, financial and political 
turbulence affecting many markets. Total 
operating profit* for the year was $8 209 million 
(2010 $6 925 million), a 19% improvement, and 
earnings per share were 10% higher at 130.9 cents 
(2010 118.7 cents). 
Over some 15 years, the Group's strategy has 
delivered strong results, with compound 
annual growth in operating profit of 28% 
per annum over that period. In considering 
the dividend level, the Board has taken 
account of the outlook for earnings growth, 
*  Unless otherwise set out in this statement, financial 
information for the Group and its business segments is based 
on BG Group's business performance. For a reconciliation 
between business performance and total results, see note 1 
on page 99 and note 8 on page 110.
www.bg-group.com
Business review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 of LNG from Sabine Pass Liquefaction, LLC 
(Sabine Pass) represents an innovative move 
designed to secure early-mover advantage in 
LNG export volumes from the US Gulf Coast.
Throughout BG Group's operations, safety and 
asset integrity received sustained attention in 
2011. However, despite continual management 
focus to achieve the highest standards, the 
Group's safety performance deteriorated last 
year in parts of our contractor workforce, 
as activity across the Group increased. As the 
Chief Executive's statement highlights, this 
is a very disappointing outcome. Safety is 
an area of utmost importance to the Board, 
and management's safety initiatives have 
been reinforced.
The future
As I mentioned last year, achieving BG Group's 
growth and value ambitions will continue 
to require substantial capital expenditure over 
the next few years. I expect these capital 
commitments to lead to an increase in the 
Group's gearing levels in 2013 and 2014 before 
reducing again as significant anticipated 
production from Brazil and Australia comes 
onstream. In order to maintain a robust financial 
structure, BG Group is maintaining its focus on 
operating costs, prioritising projects with the 
highest capital efficiency, and is continuing its 
portfolio rationalisation programme. Further 
details of the Group's capital investment 
programme and funding plan are outlined 
in the Chief Executive's statement. 
Reflections on Chairmanship tenure
As I prepare to stand down as Chairman 
of BG Group at the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in May 2012, I have 
been reflecting on the transformation that 
I have witnessed in this Company since I took 
up my appointment more than eight years 
ago. I felt then that this was a young company 
with a very exciting future. I have not been 
disappointed. It has been a tremendous journey. 
Out of the exploration and production division 
of British Gas, with a market capitalisation of 
 10 billion in 2004, BG Group has created an 
internationally diversified, integrated energy 
business, which has grown at a rate that 
is a multiple of the industry average. Today, 
BG Group is a leading global gas and oil 
business valued at approximately  52 billion 
($83 billion). 
At the same time, the international gas 
industry has changed on a scale that is 
unparalleled by any other major commodity 
industry. Three revolutions have taken place: 
first, the huge growth of LNG and the increasing 
internationalisation of that market; secondly, 
the emergence of coal seam gas in sufficient 
quantities to become a major feedstock for 
LNG production; and thirdly, the shale gas 
revolution in North America that has turned 
a rapidly expanding import market for gas 
into a potential exporter of LNG. In my view, 
BG Group has responded rapidly in aligning its 
business with these seismic changes in our 
industry and I believe that, as a result, BG Group 
is now well positioned for the future.
Preparing for the future
I am delighted that Andrew Gould has 
accepted the Board's invitation to succeed me 
as Chairman of BG Group. He has had a highly 
distinguished career during which he has 
acquired a quite exceptional knowledge of the 
oil and gas industry. I cannot think of anyone 
better qualified to guide BG Group as it seeks 
to deliver its growth portfolio, in particular 
the major projects in Brazil and Australia.
Andrew will lead the Board in its process to decide 
the successor to the Chief Executive, Sir Frank 
Chapman, who intends to step down during 2013. 
Senior executive roles have been restructured 
for an interim period to facilitate the transition.
Chris Finlayson has become Executive Director 
and Managing Director, BG Advance, and 
is responsible for ensuring BG Group has 
the right technology and technical capabilities, 
as well as for its exploration strategy and 
projects programme. In addition, Chris 
has assumed Board-level responsibility for 
the evolution of the Group's organisation. 
The accountabilities of the Chief Financial 
Officer, Fabio Barbosa, have expanded 
with him taking on responsibility for the 
development of the Group's strategy and 
portfolio. Martin Houston has taken on a new 
role as Chief Operating Officer. In this role, 
he has Board-level responsibility for all 
regions and assets and Group-wide business 
development. Martin will focus on driving 
operational performance and project delivery 
across the Group.
The Board
There were a number of changes to the Board 
during the period under review. Lord Sharman 
retired at the conclusion of the AGM in 
May 2011. I would like to thank him for his 
considerable contribution to the Group. 
Dr John Hood succeeds Baroness Hogg as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Sir David Manning succeeds Dr Hood as 
Chairman of the Sustainability Committee. 
At the beginning of 2012, the Board announced 
the appointment of Vivienne Cox as a 
Non-Executive Director.
New chapter
As BG Group continues to focus on the 
execution of its growth programme, it is 
opening a new chapter in its evolution as 
an international energy business. The major 
investments in Brazil and Australia are on track 
to propel the Group to a leading position in 
the global energy market of 2020 and beyond. 
I am very happy to be leaving the Group with 
such an outstanding portfolio of opportunities. 
This remarkable performance would not 
have been possible without the skills and 
commitment of all our people, to whom I give 
my wholehearted thanks.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
Dividend per share
23.76 cents (+10%)
 
2010 21.60 cents 
www.bg-group.com
9
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information