 This has been a challenging year overall 
for BG Group.
Production was impacted by unexpected 
shutdowns and delays in the North Sea, reservoir 
decline in Egypt, and the Group's strategic 
decision to lower its rig count in the USA, due 
to the low US gas prices. This caused us to revise 
our production outlook for the year and for 2013.
Despite these setbacks, I am pleased to say 
BG Group has made good progress in advancing 
the delivery of its growth programme in 
Australia and Brazil, and with its successful 
exploration programme, particularly in T anzania.
BG Group made total operating profit* of $8 billion 
for the year. In view of this progress, the Board 
has recommended a final dividend of 14.26 cents 
(9.03 pence) per share, taking the full-year dividend 
to 26.14 cents (16.67 pence) per share, an increase 
of 10% on 2011. Further details are set out in 
the Financial review on pages 26 to 31.
My first impressions
I have now been Chairman for nearly a year. I am 
struck by the Group's ability to remain commercially 
agile and flexible in its choices of which business 
lines to follow. This is particularly evident in the 
creation of a flexible, global LNG portfolio and 
the ability to trade it to maximum advantage. 
The commitment to exploration has been, 
and remains, fundamental to the success of the 
Group. The capability to execute our developments 
is improving and the focus on Australia and 
Brazil will be relentless in the coming year.
New Chief Executive appointed
On 13 December 2012, Chris Finlayson's 
appointment as Chief Executive was announced 
following a rigorous and comprehensive 
selection process that encompassed both 
internal and external candidates. I would like 
to congratulate Chris on his appointment. 
The Board was unanimous that Chris 
has the right skills for the next stage of 
BG Group's evolution and the delivery 
of its growth projects.
Chris has more than 35 years' experience in 
the oil and gas industry and, during his time 
at Royal Dutch Shell plc, he held a number of 
senior leadership positions in exploration and 
production, and LNG. He has an outstanding 
track record of delivering large-scale projects 
and in the optimisation of production and 
operational performance. He has also worked 
successfully with joint venture partners, 
national oil companies and governments 
at the highest levels.
Volatile macro-environment
While the economic slowdown continues 
to affect industrialised countries, emerging 
markets are still doing well overall. China 
appears to have recovered from a slowdown 
earlier in 2012 and should see relatively robust 
growth in 2013, on the back of increased 
trade and manufacturing. As a result, other 
emerging markets should also see a boost. 
In Europe, economic uncertainty persisted, 
with Greece, Spain, UK and Italy still 
in recession.
Following the Arab Spring of 2011, there has 
been continued political and social uncertainty 
in Egypt, with parliamentary and presidential 
elections and political debate on constitutional 
change. There has also been further unrest in 
Tunisia. BG Group has reassessed the security 
of its operations in North Africa, and is keeping 
the situation under review. The Board visited 
Egypt in September to gain a greater first-hand 
understanding of the socio-political challenges 
and their significance for the Group's current 
and future activities within the country.
Continued growth in energy demand
Given the prospect of continued economic 
growth in emerging markets, particularly 
in Asia, BG Group believes that the global 
demand for gas will grow at a compound rate 
of 2.7% per annum through to 2020, as China 
and India more than double their share of 
global energy demand. As a result, the Group 
expects gas to increase its market share, 
and LNG to play an increasingly important 
role in the global energy mix.
In the USA, BG Group believes that the supply 
of lower-cost energy, in the form of both gas 
and oil, may become a catalyst for an industrial 
renaissance. By 2025, we expect that US LNG 
exports will represent some 10% of the global 
ANDREW GOULD 
CHAIRMAN
I would like to congratulate Chris Finlayson 
on his appointment as our new Chief Executive. 
The Board was unanimous that Chris has the 
right skills for the next stage of BG Group's 
evolution and the delivery of its growth projects. 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
* Unless otherwise set out in this statement, financial information for the Group and its business segments is based on BG Group's business performance. For a reconciliation between 
business performance and total results, see note 1 on page 93 and note 9 on page 103.
www.bg-group.com Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06 Good progress on growth projects
This disappointing production performance 
overshadowed the good progress that has 
been made on growth projects.
In Australia, we remain on track for first LNG 
in 2014. Earlier in the year, due to local market 
effects, the increased costs of compliance with 
regulatory processes and some scope change, 
we announced a cost overrun. This underlying 
cost increase, combined with the 20% appreciation 
of the Australian Dollar, led to a revised budget 
for the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) project 
(2011-2014) of $20.4 billion.
However, more than half of the two-train 
project has now been completed, as has more 
than 60% of the scope required to fill the 
first train. In total, 94% of the project is now 
covered by contracts and other agreements, 
such that the Group remains confident that 
it will deliver Phase 1 of the project on time 
and within the revised budget.
In Brazil, we made good progress on both 
schedule and cost in developing the Group's 
Santos Basin interests. Drilling momentum 
continued and drilling costs, which account for 
about half of project capital expenditure, have 
continued to fall. Additionally, contracts are in 
place for 90% of the next four leased and eight 
locally purchased floating production, storage 
and offloading (FPSO) vessels, and costs are 
tracking on or under budget.
Balance sheet
BG Group has improved its balance sheet 
position. The Group made excellent progress 
with its portfolio rationalisation programme 
in 2012.
This programme is refocusing the Group's 
portfolio on its core strengths in exploration, 
production and LNG. BG Group has now 
completed or reached agreements on a 
number of transactions which will release  
an expected $8.1 billion of capital by the end  
of 2013. This will significantly exceed its 
two-year $5 billion target.
BG Group has reduced gearing from 27% 
at the end of 2011 to 24% at the end of 2012, 
while at the same time increasing its cash 
balance to $4.4 billion.
The Board
There were a number of changes to the Board 
during the period under review.
In September, Fabio Barbosa was granted leave 
of absence for medical treatment in Brazil. 
He has now stepped down as Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO), and has been appointed 
Chairman of BG South America.
I would like to thank Fabio for his excellent work 
as CFO over the last two years, in particular his 
efforts in strengthening our balance sheet.
Den Jones, BG Group Financial Controller, 
who acted as Fabio's Alternate Director during 
Fabio's leave of absence, has been appointed as 
an Executive Director. Den will continue to fulfil 
the role of BG Group Interim Chief Financial 
Officer pending the conclusion of a succession 
process for the role of CFO.
At the beginning of 2013, Philippe Varin 
retired after almost seven years, and 
the Board announced the appointment of 
Lim Haw-Kuang as a Non-Executive Director. 
I would like to thank Philippe for his advice 
and support over the years, and I am delighted 
to welcome Haw-Kuang to the BG Group 
Board. Haw-Kuang has extensive experience 
across the international oil and gas industry, 
including long service as a senior executive 
in China, the world's fastest growing 
energy market.
Sir Frank Chapman's legacy
Sir Frank Chapman stepped down as Chief 
Executive on 31 December 2012. We owe 
Sir Frank an enormous debt of gratitude 
for what has been achieved while he was 
leading the Group.
He has delivered an amazing exploration track 
record and developed a differentiated and 
highly valuable LNG model. During his time 
with the Group, our resource base has grown 
from 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 
in 1996 to more than 18.5 billion boe at the 
end of 2012.
Frank has transformed the Group from a 
struggling offshoot of a former state company 
with a market capitalisation of some $14 billion 
in 2000 into an internationally diversified 
exploration and production company, with 
a specialism in gas, capitalised at around 
$60 billion.
This phenomenal growth is underpinned by 
a legacy of opportunities still to be realised, 
about which I know Chris is very excited.
Summary
It has been a challenging year, with good 
progress continuing to be made with our 
mega projects in Australia and Brazil. I have 
no doubt that BG Group has a very bright 
future in front of it.
Andrew Gould
Chairman
Full details on page 103
LNG market, and this will not overwhelm the 
global marketplace. In addition to US LNG, 
global markets will require substantial 
volumes from other sources.
The price of oil fluctuated by 20-25% in 2012, 
driven by a number of factors, from the 
eurozone crisis to sanctions in Iran. The price 
of Brent crude was stable for the last three 
months of the year, ending close to where 
it started. This suggests that strong supply 
and demand fundamentals will continue.
Reflections on a challenging year
The year started well for BG Group, with four 
new projects being brought onstream in the 
first quarter. However, the Group's production 
was then impacted by a number of events, 
particularly in Egypt and the UK.
In Egypt, BG Group has seen production decline 
in recent years, due to wells experiencing 
water break-through. In 2012, new wells were 
drilled and a compression project completed, 
but unfortunately compression led to higher 
water production and lower gas volumes 
than anticipated.
The UK was impacted by the shut-in of the Total 
operated Elgin/Franklin field, due to a well control 
issue, and the delayed start -up of the non-operated 
Jasmine field. Two-thirds of the 2012 shortfall 
was from these assets. Buzzard suffered from 
a shutdown that extended from 30 to 65 days 
due to scope growth and problems with 
subsequent start-up.
On BG Group's UK operated assets, limited 
off-shore accommodation has meant that, 
beyond carrying out safety critical maintenance, 
the Group has been unable to complete all 
the maintenance improvements necessary 
to increase production efficiency.
In the USA, in response to low gas prices, 
BG Group reduced its drilling activity to five rigs 
in 2012, and recorded a non-cash post-tax 
impairment of $1.3 billion in the second quarter.
Full-year dividend per share
26.14 ce n t s
2011 23.76 cents
(+10%)
Business review
07 Chairman's statement continued