 Biocompatibles made good progress in 2004. 
The Principal Investigators of the Company' s
PRECISION clinical trial presented positive 
data at the CIRSE
1
conference on 26 September
2004; and Abbott announced the start of a 
clinical trial for the evaluation of its ZoMaxx 
Drug Eluting Stent on 14 September 2004.
The Company is delivering its plan.
The Business
Biocompatibles is a world leader in technology 
for Combination Products  - medical products
that combine the functionality of a medical
device, like an orthopaedic hip or a coronary
pacemaker, with the systemic therapeutic action 
of a drug, like a cytotoxic cancer drug or an 
anti-inflammatory steroid. The growth in the
market for Drug Eluting coronary stents, 
from $1.3bn
2
in 2003 to $3.9bn
2
in 2004 was 
a significant factor in the growth of the wider
market for Combination Products whose sales 
are expected to reach $10bn in 2009
3
.
We are focused on two markets within
Combination Products - Drug Eluting Beads 
and Drug Eluting Stents. Both products are
delivered by means of the same keyhole 
surgery imaging system, fluoroscopy, used by
interventional radiologists and interventional
cardiologists respectively.
Our lead programme is the Drug Eluting Bead
which we are developing without a partner at 
this stage. The Board believes that the value 
of this programme will grow with more clinical
evidence of efficacy and that the Company has
sufficient cash and management resources to
continue to develop this programme in the 
near term. The Company' s first generation 
Bead product, Bead Block, is distributed in 
a marketing alliance with Terumo, a leading
supplier of products for interventional medicine,
head-quartered in Japan.
We also have a programme in partnership 
with Abbott Laboratories in the market for 
Drug Eluting Stents, which is managed and
financed by Abbott.
The Technology
Biocompatibles has a portfolio of granted 
patents around the two proprietary polymer
systems - the PC Technology that formed the
origin of the company and which is used by
Abbott and Dideco, amongst other leading
medical device companies; and the N-fil 
technology licensed from the Biocure affiliate 
of Novartis' Ciba Vision subsidiary and which 
is used in the Drug Eluting Bead programme. 
The patents provide a strong position over 
the use of these polymer systems in the target
interventional products markets. 
Chairman's Statement
2

Current evidence on uterine artery
embolisation (UAE) suggests that it is safe
enough for routine use and that there is
symptomatic benefit in the majority 
of patients in the short term.
 
The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE).
1  Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiological Society of Europe 
2  Merrill Lynch: 18 January 2005: Boston Scientific Corp.: Updated Stent Model
3  Reference: Navigant Consulting (2003) Combination Products: An Impact Analysis on the Convergence of Medical Devices and Therapeutic A considerable part of Biocompatibles'
intellectual property also resides in the expertise
of its product development staff. For nearly a
decade, Biocompatibles' team of scientists,
engineers, clinical, quality and regulatory as well
as other support staff, have been developing drug
eluting polymer systems. This experience is vital,
given the complex interaction of sophisticated
Combination Products with the many facets of
human biology and disease. We also have a team
which has considerable experience in dealing with
the requirements of the agencies that regulate the
marketing of our products.
Strategic Milestones
The Board is measuring the implementation 
of the Company' s plan with strategic milestones,
adapted from previous years. These are as follows:
We intend to establish a similar strategic roadmap
for CellMed which was acquired in March 2005
as their programmes develop.
The strategic milestones form the basis of the
annual goals which are described in the
Operational Review.
Crystallising
V alue
The Company' s
principal objective
is to maximise
shareholder value and
this might be achieved
either by growing a product
line to deliver significant and
sustainable operating profitability,
or by the sale or licence of a package 
of products and technologies. The latter
approach was taken in 2002 with the sale
of the cardiovascular stent and contact lens
businesses, and the subsequent return to
shareholders of  111m of capital, with a
further  12m to come.
Business Development
In the 2004 Annual Report, the Chief Executive
Officer commented that, with the Drug Eluting
Bead in clinical trials, the Board had concluded
that it was appropriate to narrow the focus of
business development on the two key areas
identified - medical device and pharmaceutical
technologies to support the Company' s strategic
focus on drug-device combinations; and small
investments in sensibly valued medical device
programmes that offered the prospect of high
value growth without consuming excessive
financial or managerial resource.
We were pleased to identify a German medical
technology company that met these criteria and
we completed the acquisition of CellMed after
the year-end. CellMed is described in more 
detail in the Operational Review. 
2005 PRECISION establishes our Drug
Eluting Bead as a safe and effective
treatment for intermediate HCC. 
We establish the PRECISION IV
Randomised Control Trial.
2006 We intend to become the market
leader in spherical embolic devices.
2007 Abbott launch the Drug Eluting
Stent in the United States.
2008 PRECISION IV shows a survival
benefit and our Drug Eluting Bead
becomes the global gold standard
treatment for Intermediate HCC.
3 Annual Report 2004
Chairman's Statement
Continued
MOLECULAR STRUCTURE
for Phosphorylcholine (PC)
Technology central to the
drug-eluting stent and
licensing programmes Corporate Governance
The Directors place a high priority on maintaining
high standards of corporate governance and
rigorous management systems, and the Company
is now in compliance with the revised Combined
Code on Corporate Governance. Biocompatibles'
quality management system incorporates a
number of the important provisions, including
those relating to risk management and internal
control. A fresh approach was adopted during
2004 to the internal control risk review ensuring
that, as the Company and its technology evolves,
its approach to risk keeps pace at all times. 
The Company' s continued accreditation to the 
ISO 9001 quality standard represents independent
verification of the Company' s compliance with
some of the key elements of corporate
governance.
Since 2001, the Company has also held both 
the FTSE4Good and Investor in People
accreditations. The FTSE4Good status 
symbolises a commitment to high standards 
of corporate and social responsibility , and
Investors in People recognises the Company' s
dedication to employee development.
Board Changes
Ian Ardill' s appointment as Finance Director 
was reported in the 2004 Interim Report.
Outlook
The Company recognises that, in the absence of
the traditional business metrics of profitability and
cash generation, regular updates on the progress
being made with new product programmes are
important. The Company made seven such
announcements in 2004. Expected newsflow in
2005 includes tumour response data from the
PRECISION trials, following the good safety data
in 2004; data from Abbott' s clinical trial outside
the United States as well as the progress of
Abbott' s planned clinical programme within the
United States; and progress towards the release 
of the escrow account, described in the Finance
Director' s report.
The Company' s programmes are focused on 
areas of unmet or poorly met clinical needs and
the Board remains optimistic about the potential
of the programmes to create shareholder value.
As always, my fellow Directors and I would like 
to recognise the splendid contribution made by
Biocompatibles' employees. It is because of their
talent and enthusiasm that the Company remains
strong and positioned at the cutting edge of
medical technology.
Sir Richard Needham
Chairman
Chairman's Statement
Continued

The Drug Eluting Bead is a promising
option. Our patients have tolerated the
treatment well.
 
Dr Ronnie Poon, Associate Professor 
at the Centre for the Study of Liver Disease,
University of Hong Kong. 
4 5 Annual Report 2004
The Potential of Biocompatibles' Technology
Together, Biocompatibles'
proprietary PC Technology 
and the N-fil technology cover 
a broad range of medical
applications. Leading companies
such as Abbott Laboratories and
The Cooper Companies market
PC products
Tympanostomy tubes
Extracorporeal circuits
(oxygenators, etc.)
Blood filters
Drug eluting beads
for liver cancer
Fillers for aneurysms
Embolic beads for
benign tumours
such as uterine
fibroids
Fillers for aneurysms
Contact lenses
Coronary stents
Drug-eluting stents
Guidewires
Ureteric stents
Nephrostomy tubes
Peripheral stents
  Licensed/in market
  Under development
  Feasibility work
complete