 2
 Biocompatibles International plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008
Stock Exchange code: BII
16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8 16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
Chairman' s Statement
Biocompatibles made very good progress in 2008.
l We experienced strong sales growth 
l We delivered attractive gross margins
l We announced positive clinical data from the PRECISION V trial 
which was well received by the experts in the fi eld
l We saw promising results from our subsidiary, CellMed
l We signed important new agreements with Eisai Co. Ltd., Bayer 
Healthcare Pharmaceuticals Inc. and AstraZeneca 
l We completed the acquisition of BrachySciences Inc.
l We retained a strong cash position
These achievements were recorded against the background of deepening 
problems in the fi nancial markets and in the real economy. We are 
fortunate that we have no need for further capital and that our sales are 
not dependent on consumer or business confi dence and thus we expect to 
maintain our momentum.
We expect that these diffi cult economic times will provide opportunities 
for us to accelerate the development of our business by further 
acquisitions - with a strategic focus on Oncology Products and Drug 
Delivery, and an operational focus on the quality and realism of the 
management and of the commercial proposition of the acquired company.
Our business plan assumes that European capital markets for emerging 
healthcare markets will remain tough because there will be more 
rationing in healthcare when the bills come in from the rescue of the 
fi nancial system. Really successful companies should seek to own their 
most valuable product line - not license it; to generate more cash from 
transactions with partners - not just new equity from shareholders; and 
to deliver programmes that have clear cost and clinical benefi ts - not 
just a clinical benefi t. We have been positioning ourselves according to 
these principles in recent times and fully intend to emerge as one of the 
winners.
The Business
Biocompatibles is a leading medical technology company in the fi eld 
of drug device combination products. We operate through an Oncology 
Products Division and two R&D businesses. 
Our Business Model  is to own the most valuable products in our 
portfolio and pipeline; and to engage with partners where their scale 
and/or focus offers more effective execution. In this context we have 
important relationships with some of the world' s most successful 
healthcare companies, including Medtronic, AstraZeneca, Bayer
and Eisai.
We consider ourselves to be the leader in the fi eld of Drug-Eluting Beads 
for the treatment of cancer and amongst the leaders in the fi eld of stem 
cell derived therapies for the brain. Our task is to develop these leading 
technology positions into really attractive market positions or valuable 
licence agreements. 
The Vision
Our Vision for Biocompatibles remains the development of a high 
margin, high growth, fi nancially strong business based on a range of 
valuable drug device combination products.
The Vision of the Oncology Products and Drug Delivery businesses is 
also unchanged - the creation and leadership of a market for Drug-
Eluting Beads and the recognition of our products as a Gold Standard 
treatment for Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Metastatic Colo-Rectal 
Cancer. CellMed' s Vision is still to be fi rst to market with an engineered 
stem cell product - the Drug-Eluting CellBead for the treatment of 
stroke. We believe that in 2008 we took substantial steps towards the 
realisation of these visions.
Building Value
Biocompatibles' fi nancial profi le is improving with the growth in sales 
and gross margin; but the Group is not yet profi table. We address this 
situation by committing to a clear medium-term vision, described above, 
along with annual goals that mark the route; to committing to fi nancial 
guidance on the level of sales and cash consumption; and to committing 
to the exploration of opportunities for accelerating the delivery of value 
to shareholders. This approach was taken in 2002 with the sale of the 
cardiovascular stent and contact lens businesses, and the subsequent 
return to shareholders of  123m of capital.
It was consistent with this philosophy that the Company announced 
in May that, commencing in the fi rst half of 2009, it intended to pay a 
dividend funded out of royalty income received from its out-licensed 
technologies (the Royalty Dividend). The Board expects to continue to 
pay the Royalty Dividend annually for as long as Medtronic sustains 
an appropriate level of sales of its Endeavor Drug-Eluting Stent, on 
Left:
DC Bead vials: unloaded and 
loaded with doxorubicin drug. 
Below:
Bead Block syringes.
16063BIOCOMPA.indd   2 16063BIOCOMPA.indd   2 16/04/2009   17:21 16/04/2009   17:21 16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
3
16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
which Biocompatibles earns a 1.5% royalty. The Board also intends that 
thereafter the Company would pay a dividend from profi ts though, at 
this time, there can be no certainty that this transition can be achieved as 
planned.
The rationale for the Royalty Dividend is that it enables shareholders 
to benefi t from the cash that is being received by the Company from its 
cardiovascular business to the extent that it is not required for building 
the sustainable and profi table business that is the focus of the Company' s 
business plan because of our prudent cash position.
Acquisition and Business 
Development Activity
The Board monitors a short list of acquisition and in-licensing 
opportunities; and in August we completed the acquisition of 
BrachySciences, which we expect to be a valuable strategic investment. 
BrachySciences' products are a local treatment for a locally-dominant 
cancer delivered under image-guidance, which is the same concept as 
Biocompatibles' Drug-Eluting Bead products. BrachySciences' seeds 
deliver radiation; Biocompatibles' Beads deliver drugs. 
A central conviction underpinning Biocompatibles' oncology strategy 
is that the core approaches to cancer treatment, namely systemic drug 
administration and surgery, can and will be supplemented by much 
wider use of minimally-invasive local treatments for locally-dominant 
disease. The rationale behind locally-delivered therapy is to achieve a 
better side-effect profi le, lower cost and potentially improved survival. 
BrachySciences' products are in this category. 
The Company will continue actively to review acquisitions and in-
licensing opportunities that would strengthen the Company' s competitive 
position and accelerate progress to profi tability.
Corporate Governance
The Directors place a high priority on maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance and rigorous management systems, and the 
Company complies with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance. 
Biocompatibles' quality management system incorporates a number of 
relevant provisions from the Code (and the Turnbull Guidance), including 
those relating to risk management and internal control. The internal 
control risk review ensures that, as the Group and its technology evolves, 
its approach to risk keeps pace. The Company' s continued accreditation to 
the ISO 9001-2000 quality standard represents independent verifi cation 
of the Company' s compliance with some of the key elements of corporate 
governance.
Since 2001, the Company has also held the Investor in People 
accreditation. This recognises the Group' s dedication to employee 
development.
Management of Risk
The Biocompatibles' share price is more volatile than the average 
share on the London stock market, not least because the Company 
is part of a volatile sector - of small/mid size healthcare technology 
companies; and although the sector performed poorly in 2008, 
Biocompatibles' stock held up better than most. Nevertheless, the 
Directors continue to take the view that the Company' s investors 
are aware of this sector risk  and that they are looking for the 
exceptional returns that can be achieved when healthcare technology 
is successfully commercialised. The Directors therefore focus their 
review of risk on the issues that can cause projects to be delayed, as 
well as on those that can cause projects to fail. For further details 
of the Group' s risk assessment and mitigation plan see pages 27 
and 28 of the Corporate Governance Report. The principal risk and 
uncertainties the Group faces are set out on page 15 of the Directors' 
Report.
Appointment to
the Board
I was delighted to welcome Anne Fairey to the Board as a non-
executive director at the beginning of September. Anne brings with 
her an extensive knowledge of medical and pharmaceutical affairs, 
oncology and clinical research which will enhance the leadership of 
the Company.
Outlook
In summary, the Board considers that its current strategy is 
delivering. Sales are growing, market acceptance is increasing, 
the clinical data is good and we are developing new commercial 
relationships with large pharmaceutical companies. 
We believe that we can offer highly attractive returns for our 
shareholders and I believe that all Biocompatibles' people are 
committed to doing so. I am once again pleased to express my 
appreciation of the commitment of our people and of their many 
accomplishments - in the UK, in Germany and in the United States. 
The success of the Company is their success.
 
The economic environment and the capital markets remain 
challenging - especially for smaller emerging healthcare companies 
- but we believe that our relative fi nancial strength, the sales 
momentum and the competitive advantage of our products will 
enable us to take advantage of any opportunities that present 
themselves in diffi cult times. 
Gerry Brown
Chairman
16063BIOCOMPA.indd   3 16063BIOCOMPA.indd   3 16/04/2009   17:21 16/04/2009   17:21