 2011 was another very encouraging year in our path towards building a sustainable business, with a 42% increase in Group
revenues. Strong growth occurred in both of the Group's divisions with Bioplastics revenues growing by 47% and the Stanelco RF
Technologies division increasing revenues by 21%.
The effect of this revenue growth and continued cost management was to reduce the year-on-year loss from operations by 46%
from  1.9m to  1.0m, slightly ahead of expectations. This is the fifth consecutive year of reduced loss for the Group. It was
particularly pleasing to see, at divisional level, both the Bioplastics division reach breakeven in a year for the first time and the
Stanelco RF Technologies division improve its profitability levels over 2010.
The first half of the year saw revenue growth exceed the Board's expectations due to significant growth in Bioplastics and the
continuation of a sizeable fibre optic furnace build programme within Stanelco RF Technologies. In the second half of the year,
revenues in the Bioplastics division, predominantly third party sales at the Group's Biotec joint venture, were impacted by a force
majeure  at a key supplier. This restricted the Group's ability to build upon the growth achieved in the first half. This restraint has
now eased and the Group is now holding contingency stocks of both raw materials and finished goods to mitigate the impact of
such issues going forward.
While continental Europe remains the predominant market for the Group, significant progress was made in 2011 in broadening our
customer base with new customers coming on stream in Asia and the Americas. New legislation and evidence of changes in
consumer behaviour continues to help to drive our growth in a number of these countries.
The Stanelco RF Technologies division had another successful year with the Group continuing to benefit from its leading position in
the fibre optic furnace market and an encouraging broadening into other industrial applications. The new contract with Durapipe
UK, announced in January 2012, demonstrates Stanelco's technological capabilities and is expected to contribute significantly to the
division's earnings over the coming years.
In December, it was pleasing to see the first payment of  348,000 of accrued interest from the Biotec JV. This initial return on
investment demonstrates the operational gearing and prospective performance of a unit that remains with significant unutilised
capacity.
The Group also made positive progress regarding its ongoing litigation involving Biotec, its joint venture partner SPhere and
Novamont S.p.A. During the year SPhere has received two German court judgements that Novamont's patent EP  559 and EP  120
are invalid in this territory and Biotec is now engaged in a similar process with the goal to demonstrate that Novamont's patent EP
 505 was invalid in Germany. The Board has sought and will continue to seek complete resolution of this matter as soon as it is
feasible.
Results
Group revenues increased 42% to  19.1m (2010:  13.4m). The Bioplastics division's revenues grew by 47% to  16.2m 
(2010:  11.0m) and the RF division's revenues by 21% to  2.9m (2010:  2.4m).
The loss from operations for the year reduced to  1.0m (2010:  1.9m), reflecting revenue growth whilst administration costs were
reduced slightly.  The loss before taxation was  1.1m (2010:  2.3m), delivering a loss per share of 0.018 pence (2010: 0.047 pence).
Chairman's statement
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 3
R108033 BIOME AR11 01-29_2010  29/03/2012  12:15  Page 3 Cash
We continue to manage our cash resources prudently whilst we move towards positive earnings and the Group's cash position at
31 December 2011 was  2.4m (2010:  4.0m). In the year, the cash utilised by operations was  1.1m (2010:  1.1m) of which
 0.7m was invested in working capital as contingency against future supply side turbulence. In addition,  0.1m was invested
during the year in new property, plant and equipment (2010:  0.2m) and  0.4m in product development (2010:  0.4m).
To support the anticipated future growth of the Group and to supplement our cash resources, a secured two-year debt facility of up
to  2.0m was put in place in May 2011. This adds considerably to our financial resources and operational flexibility going forward.
Strategy
As stated previously, the Group's mid-term strategy is to:
a) build a leading position in its chosen markets based on patented technology;
b) develop a range of new functional application areas where premiums can be obtained from its existing bioplastics IP base;
c) create and build new bioplastic applications by working intimately with consumer facing international businesses; development
will be application led rather than technology led; and
d) drive the businesses' differentiation by developing and retaining a team that is recognised as being at the forefront in
developments in application and product engineering.
Biome Bioplastics achieved strong growth with a broadening set of customers across many geographic markets and a focus
predominantly on patented products. We believe this growth exceeded that of the general bioplastics market resulting in increased
market share. To further this growth going forward, Biome Bioplastics has launched a number of new products into a variety of
applications. These products, which are being trialled and tested for their market potential, have been developed in-house by Biome
Bioplastics and are consequently owned wholly by the Group.  
Whilst we continue to work with a number of consumer facing international businesses, it is becoming clearer that the early
adopters in this market will be regional players with quicker methods of trialling such products technically and commercially. Whilst
growth in the European market has exceeded our expectations, the uptake in North America has been somewhat slower albeit it is
now encouraging to see the Federal Administration taking steps to promote bio-content in its procurement policies.
On the raw material side we have reduced our dependence on a number of key additive suppliers through substitution and
increasing the range of starch based material that can be used in our processes. 
In Stanelco RF Technologies, we remain the leader in the optical fibre furnace market whilst expanding our product range and
customer base, highlighted by the recently signed development contract with Durapipe UK to develop their plastic welding product. 
The Board's firm intent remains to continue to accelerate revenue growth whilst controlling costs as it drives the Group towards
profitability.  
4 Biome Technologies plc
Chairman's statement continued
R108033 BIOME AR11 01-29_2010  29/03/2012  12:15  Page 4 Board and Employees
In October 2011, Susan Bygrave stepped down as Group Finance Director and from the Board after two years of service. We thank
her for her considerable contribution to the development of Biome Technologies and wish her well in her future endeavours.
Declan Brown replaced Susan as Group Finance Director and as a member of the Board. Declan has held senior finance positions
within blue chip companies with international operations.  
Our continued development and drive to profitability is due to the unerring support of our employees who have moved the
business forward. Once again they have focussed on growing revenues as fast as possible on a limited budget and these efforts are
very much appreciated. I thank them very much for their support.
Outlook
We remain excited by the opportunities that lie ahead for the business. The Group has been growing at a very fast pace over the
last few years and, with changes in legislation and consumer behaviour continuing to support the global demand for bioplastics,
we expect this momentum to continue into the future. 
To date, we have not been impacted adversely, as many other businesses have, by the economic doldrums that are prevalent across
the globe. However, as Continental Europe remains the main area for the Group's customers, the Board remains vigilant of the
wider economic uncertainties that could impact the Company in 2012 and beyond. Against this backdrop, the Group has been
expanding successfully its customer base in both divisions outside Europe.
As we look into 2012 we have to recall that the first quarter turnover in 2011 was the highest of that year. This year's trading with
revenues of  2.9m for the first two months (2010:  3.4m) is showing that, whilst we are unlikely to reach 2011 levels in this
quarter, we are already seeing monthly revenues comfortably above the levels of the final quarter of last year. We envisage this
year's sales in both divisions growing through the year.
To maintain our pace in 2012 will require us to continue to enter new markets, gain market share and achieve further sales for our
Biome developed products. At this early stage in the year, we are confident of achieving all of these.
John Standen
Chairman
28 March 2012
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 5
Chairman's statement continued
R108033 BIOME AR11 01-29_2010  29/03/2012  12:15  Page 5