 Chairman's statement  
Our results for 2013 were broadly as expected with new revenue streams and cost controls ensuring that the operating loss, 
before exceptional items, was reduced to  1.7m (2012:  2.1m). This also reflects the fall in the Group's reported revenues 
following the removal of consolidated revenues after the sale of the 50% share in Biotec Holding GmbH (Biotec ) in 2012.
The Biome Bioplastics division's strategy is now firmly focused on the commercialisation of bioplastics in a discrete number 
of product/application areas where we believe the business has differentiated products and intellectual property.  The 
technology has begun to exhibit some of its exciting potential and new revenue streams comprising  0.6m were generated 
in the year.  There was further promising technical progress on the pipeline of products that are, as yet, pre-commercial.
The Stanelco RF Technologies division was again cash generative at the earnings before interest, depreciation and 
amortisation level.  Nevertheless, revenue was disappointing in the year as demand for the business' fibre optic furnaces in 
both China and India remained subdued due to over-capacity in fibre production.  2014 has started more positively in this 
regard.
We were pleased that the settlement of the Group's legacy property issues, as well as a restructuring of the Group's shares 
and capital, has now put the business in a good structural shape for the future.
RESultS
Group revenues were  2.0m (2012:  5.7m), reflecting the sale of the Group's 50% share in Biotec. Mitigating the impact 
of these lower revenues were higher margins achieved on sales in both the Biome Bioplastics and Stanelco RF Technologies 
divisions and the cost reduction exercise continued during the year. The resultant operating loss, before exceptional items, 
was reduced to  1.7m (2012:  2.1m). The loss after taxation, including exceptional items related to the lease settlement, 
share consolidation and capital reduction was  2.5m (2012: loss of  5.8m, which included the exceptional loss on the sale 
of Biotec). Including the exceptional items and discontinued activities in 2012, the loss per share was 107 pence (2012: loss 
per share of 238 pence).
The Biome Bioplastics division's revenues fell to  1.0m (2012:  3.4m) as it refocused its sales activity from the lower-margin, 
single-use plastic bag market onto sales of higher performance products. The resulting operating loss for the division was 
reduced to  0.4m (2012:  1.0m).
Within the Stanelco RF Technologies division, revenues fell to  1.0m (2012:  2.3m) as the turbulence in the Chinese optic 
fibre market continued throughout 2013. Despite increasing margins and lowering costs in this division, the resultant 
operating loss was  0.1m (2012: operating profit of  0.4m). 
CASh
The Group's cash resources continued to be managed prudently throughout the year, with the cash position at 31 
December 2013 being  3.3m (31 December 2012:  6.3m). Over the year, the cash utilised by continuing operations, 
excluding exceptional items, was  1.5m (2012:  0.8m), which included an increase of  0.3m in working capital. Cash 
outflow from the lease settlement, share consolidation and capital reduction amounted to  1.2m. There was no significant 
investment in the year in new property, plant and equipment (2012: nil) and  0.2m in product development (2012:  0.3m).
Given the Group's cash balances, and that the fact that the Group's debt facility had remained unused since its inception, 
this facility was terminated in January 2013.
REStRuCtuRINg
In May 2013, the Board announced a settlement with its landlord in respect of two of the three buildings in Southampton 
that were surplus to the Group's operational needs. Under the terms of the settlement the Group paid a cash sum of  0.9m 
to the landlord to settle all ongoing liabilities and dilapidations in relation to these two properties. 
The Group also undertook a capital reduction and share consolidation in the year. The purpose of the share consolidation 
was to rationalise the unusually large shareholder base, thereby reducing the costs of administration and providing an exit 
for shareholders with little economic interest in the Group. The court-approved capital reduction allowed the share premium 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3   Chairman's statement continued  
account to be cancelled against the accumulated losses and provides the Group with greater financial flexibility going 
forward. Following this capital reduction, the Company had distributable reserves of  8.0m as at 31 December 2013. 
StRAtEgy
The Group's strategy for some years has been to build a leading position in its chosen markets based on proprietary IP 
protected technology.  It will do this by developing products for a range of functional application areas where value-added 
pricing can be justified. The products developed are to be application-led rather than technology-led and will be driven by a 
team capability that is at the forefront of application and product engineering.
For the business trajectory through to 2016, the Board has adopted three high level Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that 
complement the strategy and articulate stretching objectives. These are:
 	 Vigorous growth of revenues of over 40% per annum in a number of the Group's specialised applications that are founded 
on our proprietary technology platforms 
 	 A highly differentiated product pipeline that will diversify our commercially-viable product ranges by 50% by 2016 and will 
fuel our sustained revenue growth 
 	 Passing the earnings positive  inflection point in quarterly trading during 2015.
The Board will measure the Group's performance against these KPIs going forward and report to shareholders on progress. 
 
BIOmE BIOplAStICS
Throughout the year, the division continued with its strategy to focus on the commercialisation and development of its 
wholly-owned intellectual property.
Several customers in the USA procured increasing volumes of Biome's materials for use in the single-serve coffee market. 
The type of materials supplied, and the customer base utilising them, is widening.  This area of activity is developing into 
one of continuing and increasing levels of take-up for our materials, which are being used in the manufacture of products 
seen in branded items in supermarkets in the USA and Canada. This experience is being built upon to widen our reach and 
product offering.
During the year another key milestone was achieved as the Group's novel high temperature material for a food service 
application was granted composting accreditation. This accreditation, after three years of development, has allowed the 
business to progress with commercialisation.  The material is now in pre-market testing with a number of customers with 
potential for significant uptake.
The division has also been investigating opportunities for the manufacture of bio-based materials through the use of 
synthetic biology in pursuit of a next generation of bioplastics that can be made at comparable cost to traditional petro-
chemicals. The division, along with its research partner the University of Warwick, was awarded two research grants from 
the Technology Strategy Board (a Government body charged with making the UK a global leader in innovation) for a 
feasibility study in this area.  This work is proceeding in an encouraging manner.
StANElCO RF tEChNOlOgy
The Stanelco RF Technologies Division continued to be impacted in the year by apparent excess capacity in the Chinese 
fibre-optic market. Early indications in 2014 show that some of this uncertainty has abated with orders for a number of 
furnaces received and further orders under discussion.  Self-help measures to promote retrofits to installed furnaces have 
encouraged new business. Progress has continued on the Durapipe contract with customer sign off on the prototypes 
awaited. The commercial agreement signed with Forsstrum widened the product range into larger welders. This and other 
wider opportunities will aid the strategy of lessening the reliance on the optic fibre furnace market. 
Neil Martin, who had led this Division for the past four years, stepped down in February 2013 and we thank him for the 
4 Biome Technologies plc   Chairman's statement continued  
transformation he brought to the business during his tenure. Stephen Baskerville took over as Managing Director in August 
2013 and brings with him over twenty years of commercial and technical roles in the industry. 
OutlOOk
The Board's confidence in the Group's near term revenue growth potential is improving as both the Bioplastics and RF 
Technologies order pipelines are extending in the first months of 2014, at levels well ahead of 2013. The recent contract 
win for RF Technologies (announced 24 March) further underpins this growth dynamic.
Our confidence for the future of the Group's performance stems from the increasing testing and development work being 
undertaken by our customers and potential customers in chosen markets and in their encouragement that we have an 
exciting pipeline of new applications for our marketplaces. 
We look forward to improving the Group's performance through 2014 and beyond.
John Standen
Chairman
26 March 2014
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5  