 02 Adnams plc
PREPARING
FUTURE
FOR THE
Welcome to Adnams' 2007 Annual Report
& Accounts.We are a brewer and leisure
retailer, proud of our celebrated brand
and focused on building sustainable
competitive advantage through innovation,
forward thinking and premium products.
Against the backdrop of a turbulent year
for the drinks industry and the broader
economy, I am very pleased to report on
Adnams' performance in 2007. Operating
profit has risen by 2.6%, turnover is up
by 2.8% and net debt has reduced by
33%.Your Board is recommending a final
dividend increase of 4.3%.
Market conditions
Trading conditions during 2007 were very
difficult; the UK beer market was down
4%, whilst the UK wine market grew 
by approximately 3%. Our main trading
market is the UK on-trade, where industry
estimates showed a decline in beer volumes
of nearly 6.5% and a decline in the wine
market of 4% for the year. Contributing
factors were the poor summer weather
and depressed consumer confidence in the
autumn following concerns over property
prices and instability in financial markets.
As expected, the smoking ban introduced
in July has also contributed to the decline
in beer consumption and we anticipate
that this will continue to impact trading 
in the first half of 2008.These conditions
also contributed to the continued shift in
consumption of alcohol from out-of-home
to in-home with leading supermarkets
taking a greater share of beer volumes.
The broader economic picture, both in
the UK and globally, appears gloomier 
than it has for some while and consumer
confidence will inevitably continue to
suffer as a result.Tighter credit conditions
make life more difficult for all businesses.
The Brewing industry is facing its own
particular challenges both from an
increasingly active health lobby and from
rapidly inflating costs as hops and barley
have been in unusually short supply.
JONATHAN ADNAMS - EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 03 Adnams plc CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
Trading of  A' Shares
During the year, the Board carried out a
review of the process set down in Adnams'
Articles of Association for the purchase
and sale of its unquoted  A' shares, in
order to ensure that the trading of  A'
shares should be as liquid and transparent
as possible. As part of this review, the
Board considered both processes that
would work within our existing Articles of
Association and others that would require
us to alter our Articles of Association.
During the review, we received feedback
from shareholders representing a significant
majority of  A' shares in support of retaining
the existing Articles.The Board therefore
sought to work within these Articles to
put in place a trading facility for  A' shares.
Under this optional arrangement interested
buyers and potential sellers are able to
communicate, if they wish, through a
nominated stockbroker.
Executive Remuneration
Adnams is a company with ambition.
We believe that we have a brand name
and prospects that will enable us to achieve
substantial growth, despite difficult market
conditions.To incentivise the achievement
of our ambitious plan to more than double
profits in the next five years, we have put
in place a remuneration scheme that will
allow bonuses to be paid to executive
directors and business heads.The maximum
annual bonuses amount to between 75%
and 100% of salary. Nothing will be paid
unless performance exceeds 91% of the
target and the full bonus is entirely
dependent on meeting the very challenging
milestones in our five year plan. Participants
will be forgoing inclusion within the existing
profit-related pay scheme.
In our retail business we continue to
innovate with the evolution of our Cellar
& Kitchen stores, such as the inclusion of 
a caf  bar in Saffron Walden.The relaunch
of our website in the first half of last year
shows great promise for wines and hotels.
We look forward to our new flagship
Cellar & Kitchen store opening in
Southwold later this year with many of 
the environmental building techniques 
you have come to expect, following the
example set by our Distribution Centre.
Investment 
Further to our recent investment in new
talent, we have of course for the last few
years invested heavily in developing the
right infrastructure, most significantly our
award-winning eco-Distribution Centre
and Brewhouse. Despite operating within
a difficult trading environment, we are
confident that these investments play 
a crucial part in being able to deliver 
long-term sustainable value to shareholders.
In addition to the operational benefits 
of these investments, there is also real
commercial value in placing your company
at the forefront of the environmental agenda.
We believe in doing the right thing 
In October 2007 various directors' duties
were codified as parts of the Companies
Act 2006 came into force.These include 
a duty to promote the success of the
company and in doing so to have regard
to the long-term consequences of decisions
and the interests of a wider stakeholder
group.This group includes employees,
suppliers, customers, the community and
the environment. As a Company we very
much welcome this  enlightened shareholder
value' approach.We feel that a focus on
the long-term and a concern for a wider
set of interests are matters that are central
to Adnams, and they will continue to be at
the heart of what we do in years to come.
The tide of industry regulation has not
abated and pubs and alcohol continue to
live in the constant spotlight of government
and the media.
Adnams in 2007 
Against this challenging backdrop, Adnams'
volumes have held firm, significantly
outperforming the market. Consistent
investment in the brand and business
infrastructure has made for a more robust
and adaptable business and provides a
good foundation for growth. For instance,
our timely investment in environmentally
efficient infrastructure at our distribution
centre and new brewery has given us real
competitive advantage with greater than
expected efficiency savings in the face 
of significant raw material increases and
rising energy costs.
Completing the process of establishing 
our two business units of Brewing &
Brands and Leisure Retail has enabled us
to strengthen our management team by
recruiting key people in sales and marketing.
This recruitment drive in the latter part 
of the year has added a cost to 2007
accounts, but is fundamental to our plans
for 2008. Our corporate restructuring is
now complete; you will see this reflected
in this year's segmented accounts.
Innovation 
Innovation continues to be a key theme
within our business and has led to
productive partnerships with some of 
our main customers. Adnams Spindrift 
was test launched last spring in conjunction
with Punch Taverns and is now well
established in bars and restaurants
throughout London and the South East.
We are currently working with one of 
our major retail customers on the
development of a new product with
minimal environmental impact. At the time
of writing, I am unable to disclose further
details but can tell you that the launch will
be around the time of the AGM in April. 04 Adnams plc
The scheme is designed to create long-
term sustainable value for shareholders.
It takes into account remuneration policies
elsewhere, past practice within Adnams
and the value that will be delivered to
shareholders should the plan be achieved.
Recognition from others 
Once again it is greatly pleasing to have
picked up a number of awards this year.
Recognition from the outside world that
Adnams is doing the right thing greatly
enhances our corporate reputation and
we have enjoyed significant national and
regional press coverage as a result.We 
are particularly proud of becoming the
Carbon Trust's Carbon Innovator of the
Year in acknowledgment of our efforts 
to reduce our carbon footprint across 
the business.To celebrate we produced
Adnams Innovation - the first new beer
to come out of our new brewhouse.
In November, at the National Business
Awards we picked up the Corporate Social
Responsibility award and have gone on to
reach the European Finals. Having made
our presentation to a panel of judges in
Paris we await the results in early March.
Finally, to become the first company 
within our industry to receive the Good
Corporation's Ethical Business Award 
yet again reinforces our belief that doing
the right thing is good for the long-term
health of your company.The process 
for this award involves surveying all
stakeholder groups, which included a
cross-section of our shareholders at 
last year's AGM.
Details of the various awards and press
coverage can be found on the revamped
About Us section of our website
adnams.co.uk/aboutus
Our people
All of the initiatives set out above are the
seed corn for tomorrow's growth but it is
important to recognise that it is talented
people who transform innovative ideas
into commercial success.The organisation
has achieved a great deal in the last 12
months despite the current adverse trading
environment. In March we said goodbye
to Steve Curzon, who has been Marketing
Director for the past four years. Steve has
been a great ambassador for Adnams and
it is with our best wishes that Steve moves
on, leaving the company well prepared for
future growth. I trust shareholders will join
me in thanking my fellow Directors and all
Adnams employees for their continued
passion and enthusiasm during the last
year and for their commitment to delivering
our ambitious plans.
Outlook for 2008
Whilst we enter 2008 in a stronger position
than ever, we are aware that the external
economic environment continues to be
volatile.This is contributing to reduced
levels of consumer confidence and the
prospect of a tough year ahead.
We have adopted an ambitious strategic
plan under which we aim to more than
double our profits over a five-year period.
We believe that by building on the
strength of the Adnams brand and our
commitment to doing the right thing we
will be able to deliver improving value for
shareholders.
Jonathan Adnams Executive Chairman 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT