 2 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
To Our Shareholders,
Our focus on improved and consistent execution has delivered a
solid financial performance for the year ended 28 February 2004,
with good growth in operating profit, a sharp increase in earnings
per share and strong cash flow.
During the year, we opened our 2000th store and entered two
new countries, bringing the total to 50 countries. We now have a
global breadth and balance to our business which, coupled with 
the good financial performance, provides a strong foundation for 
the future. Following a detailed strategic review, we are launching 
a  100 million expansion programme which, over the next several
years, will significantly expand our operations, open new channels
and install new infrastructure.
Results Summary
Worldwide retail sales were flat at  699.5 million, with comparable store
sales down by -4%. Retail sales through The Body Shop at Home
increased significantly.
These comparable store sales reflect strong performance 
in the USA (+4%), the Middle East (+4%), Nordic countries (+4%),
and most parts of Asia Pacific (+2%), offset by weak sales in the
United Kingdom (-13%), Canada (-10%), and certain parts of Europe
(-7%). The disparity in sales growth is mainly due to differential
timing in implementing our new directions. We are confident that 
The Body Shop brand can achieve sustainable comparable store
sales growth, given reasonable growth in a country's economy.
Full year operating profit for the 52 weeks to 28 February 
2004 increased to  30.3 million, up 25% (2003:  24.3 million).
The performance of the Americas region (+110%) was excellent.
Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa performed well
whilst the UK and Republic of Ireland region was disappointing.
Profit before tax increased by 40% to  28.5 million. Profit after 
tax increased by 60% to  21.7 million, resulting in an increase 
in earnings per share of 57% to 10.7 pence (2003: 6.8 pence).
The current effective tax rate of 23.9% is kept low by the utilisation
of brought forward operating losses in the US business. A significant
proportion of these losses are expected to be utilised within the next
three years.
The growth in profit, combined with the continued focus on the
management of working capital, has resulted in strong cash inflow
and a significant year on year reduction in net debt to  9.4 million
(2003:  22.2 million).
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 3.8 pence per
share (2003: 3.8 pence).
Focus on Our Customers
Providing excellent customer service remains a key objective.
By sharing global best practices among our four regions, we aim 
to ensure that our customers are being offered consistent and 
best service wherever they shop. In the UK we were rated top for
customer service and satisfaction in a recent survey by Retail Week.
The survey covered 90 of our shops, and service standards tested
included staff appearance, sales technique and product knowledge.
Product Development
Our strategy is to move the brand to a  masstige' positioning by
developing innovative and credible products for our customers 
at affordable prices. Major developments during the year included 
two ingredient-led, technically advanced product ranges: a complete
performance-driven Sun Care range that combines 100% mineral
sunscreens with advanced antioxidant and moisturising benefits; 
and a new Hair Care range (containing six Community Trade
ingredients, including beeswax and honey from Zambia, and sesame
oil from Nicaragua) that has been expertly formulated to deliver
outstanding results. These are being launched in 2004.
We have built on the success of our ingredient-led Bath and
Body range with the extension of the range into new variants such 
as Papaya and Sesame. Other launches during the year included:
Ultra Smooth Face Base, a new foundation with innovative leading
edge technology; our masstige Global Fragrance collection; and 
the New Everyday Aromatherapy range, which features four of the
most popular pure essential oils (Ylang Ylang, Lavender, Peppermint
and Bergamot).
A disappointment this year has been the roll out of our re-
launch of The Body Shop Make-up. We believe that the make-up
stand and packaging, although researched, has not delivered the
expected consumer experience and therefore we have suffered 
a shortfall in make-up sales. Obviously this has impacted those
markets with a high percentage of sales in this category. Work has
commenced to remedy the situation and testing of a new stand will
be in-store this spring.
Marketing Development 
During the year, we launched a number of initiatives aimed at
augmenting our  masstige' brand positioning. We have introduced
global marketing programmes designed to support new product
launches and seasonal events. These included added value
promotions, increased sampling and gift with purchase initiatives 
to drive customer loyalty and repeat visits.
The Body Shop at Home
The Body Shop at Home continues to show impressive growth 
in the UK, the USA and Australia. This strong performance is
attributed to our dedicated consultants whose ability to successfully
demonstrate the qualities of our products within the home
environment has ensured that the brand is being offered to a wider
audience. Strong support systems have also yielded operational
efficiencies in this area.
Systems and Supply Chain Development
We are on track with the installation of the second phase of the
merchandise planning system in the UK. We have already seen
improvements in sales and in-stock availability in trial stores coupled
with lower inventory levels.
Franchising
Our franchisees operate 1,411 shops under our brand around the
world. Over the years our franchisees have helped us build a global
business and have made a significant contribution to our affairs.
We salute that contribution and record our appreciation.
From time to time some of our franchisees wish to liquidate
their investments. In such cases we will review the request from 
Letter from the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Expanding around the world is more than growth for growth's sake.
Not only are we seizing new opportunities, we are also spreading our
risk and continuing to establish firm foundations for the business. replenishment system, also already in the USA) and a global
internet structure - to resolve these issues. These initiatives 
will take at least three years to complete, and our plan shows 
a positive return on investment.
In rolling out all these strategic initiatives we will be disciplined and,
in particular, we will be sure not to over-extend our people or our
finances. Capital expenditure to fund these initiatives will exceed
 100 million over the next several years.
Organisation
We have appointed a Director of Strategic Planning and Business
Development, Jim Hurley, who will help us realise our future strategic
direction. Andy King also joined us as Director of Marketing in
November 2003, and Paul McGreevy will be joining us as Director 
of Product in July.
Outlook
Trading since the year end is in line with our expectations. Our focus
remains on delivering positive comparable store sales performance,
and on ensuring that the strong and disciplined operating practices
already put in place continue.
The Group is exposed to movements in the US Dollar and the
Euro. Continued weakness of the US Dollar will have an impact on
our results in the coming year, affecting both transactions and the
translation of overseas profit. Despite this, we still expect another
year of progress.
We would like to thank all our employees, business partners 
and our Board of Directors for their contribution and commitment 
to the successful development of The Body Shop.
Adrian Bellamy Peter Saunders
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
3 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Adrian Bellamy
Executive Chairman 
Peter Saunders
Chief Executive Officer 
the franchisee and determine whether we wish to make a strategic
investment and acquire the business ourselves, or facilitate the
acquisition by an acceptable third party. Examples of strategic
investments include the USA, Germany and France. Examples of 
third party acquisitions include West Malaysia and Finland. We will
continue to manage these opportunities, if and when they arise,
for the benefit of our shareholders.
Our Values - Making a Difference
The Body Shop built on its strong values heritage in 2003 by
launching a global campaign against domestic violence. The 
success of the campaign has demonstrated that this is an issue 
of high concern to both customers and staff. In the UK, our stores
have raised  90,000 for the charity Refuge in less than 6 months
through the sale of badges and the recycling of 18,000 mobile
phones. Each phone collected raises  2.75 for Refuge and helps
provide a lifeline for women and children affected by domestic
violence. In the USA, 50,000 mobile phones were donated by
customers, raising $80,000 for The National Coalition Against
Domestic Violence and The Wireless Foundation.
Future Strategic Direction
During this past year we have remained very focused on improving
our execution. While we still have much more to achieve, the time
has come to review our longer term strategies. To this end our
Management and our Board have completed a comprehensive review
of our strategic imperatives and options. Highlights of this work are:
- Product and Marketing: We will continue our focus on new
product development and marketing initiatives.
- New shops: In many countries, notably the UK, the USA, Central
Europe and Japan, we have the opportunity to open additional
shops. We are provisionally planning to open about 300 new shops.
- New markets: We have opportunities to enter new markets.
Prime targets include North and South Asia, South America and
Eastern Europe.
- The Body Shop at Home: We plan for The Body Shop at Home
to be a prime growth vehicle over the next several years. Growth
will come from the existing operations in the UK, USA and
Australia, as well as a number of additional countries which 
we see as having the opportunity to develop the concept.
- The Body Shop.com: We have continued our project for 
The Body Shop.com in the USA. This consumer channel is
expanding rapidly worldwide and we hope to expand our global
coverage once the concept has proven successful for our brand.
- Shop design: We have under consumer test a  recycled' shop
concept which takes our traditional  green box' and updates it 
with our current branding and layout principles whilst minimizing
destruction of the existing structure. The results have been very
encouraging. We plan to roll out this concept over the next several
years. We will also shortly be putting under consumer test a new
shop design and a new make-up presentation.
- IT: Our information systems are generally old and not fully
compatible globally. We have launched several initiatives - SAP 
(an Enterprise Resource Planning system, which is already
operating successfully in the USA), FOAD (our automatic inventory