 Booth Industries Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
02
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
It is now five months since I was appointed Chairman and Chief
Executive and along with my new management team we have
completed a detailed strategic review of the Group's operations.
I have spent time at our operating subsidiaries with our senior
management gaining a thorough understanding of both the
challenges but more importantly the future market opportunities
that the Group can capitalise on.
The Group consists of niche engineering service businesses
operating on an international basis. We operate with global
clients in markets that have growth in the short, medium and
long term. Our principal markets include:
Nuclear
Oil and Gas
Defence, Safety and Security
Transport Infrastructure
I am encouraged by the Group's prospects in manufacturing and
contracting in the nuclear industry and by continued solid
demand and performance of Booth Industries Limited in the oil,
gas, defence and tunnel infrastructure sectors. 
I will expand on the Group's prospects later in my statement.
Trading Results
Trading on ordinary activities for the year ended 30 September
2005 produced an operating loss before exceptional items of
 263,000 on turnover of  27.9 million (2004:  28,000 loss on
 27.4 million). After exceptional items detailed below, interest
and taxation the loss carried to reserves is  3.7 million (2004:
 609,000 profit after crediting a further profit on disposal of
Oakland Elevators Limited of  846,000).
The impact of the loss on net assets has been mitigated by a
revaluation surplus of our freehold and long leasehold properties
of  1.0 million at the balance sheet date. The majority of this
revaluation has been treated as a prior year adjustment.
Exceptional Item
The results for the year are materially affected by the treatment
of two legacy contracts at the year end. We have reviewed
these contracts which were undertaken by Jordan Projects
during 2002 and provided for the amounts now considered
irrecoverable. We continue to progress discussions for a
negotiated settlement rather than expose the Company to
further extensive legal and professional costs in the pursuit of an
arbitrated settlement. 
Review of the Year
The overall operating performance of the business was mixed,
with the highlight being an improved contribution from Booth
Industries Limited, the Group's specialist designer and
manufacturer of door and wall systems, whilst the major
disappointment was the continued loss at Jordan Manufacturing
Limited, our stainless steel fabrication operation.
Booth Industries Limited is a solidly run and solidly performing
business. Turnover in 2005 was marginally down on 2004 but
improved margins and tight cost control resulted in an improved
operating profit.
Jordan Nuclear Limited is beginning to find its feet as an
independent contractor with turnover in nuclear up by 10% on
2004. The major contract undertaken in the year was the
completion of the MA 1 Cell contract at Sellafield which totalled
 7 million over a two year period.
CHB-Jordan Engineering Limited saw turnover increase by 16%
year on year. Margins fell due to the mix of work and the
decision taken at Group level to abandon project engineering
activity. Tight overhead control enabled this business to return to
operating profit.
A major operating loss was made in Jordan Manufacturing
Limited as the business failed to recover from the loss of the
contract to supply vessels for the transportation of spent nuclear
fuel referred to in last year's statement. The award of the first
tranche of the Sellafield Product Residue Store (SPRS )
contract at Sellafield should enable this business to return to
profit in 2005/6.
Financial Position
The Group has remained cash positive throughout the year and
gearing at the year end stood at 3% (2004: 15% adjusted for
property revaluation). Cash generated from operating activities
was  206,000, after absorbing  738,000 into the defence of
legacy contracts, and reflected the robust management of
working capital. 
In order to give the business more flexibility in its cash
management we have secured  3.0 million of senior debt
facilities with Bank of Scotland Corporate who will become the
Group's bankers.
In light of the positive cash generation in the year, the Board has
given notice to redeem on 17 March 2006 a further  500,000 of
outstanding unsecured convertible loan stock at par plus accrued
redemption premium and interest from existing cash resources.
Dividend
In line with last year, the Board has decided not to recommend a
dividend for the year ended 30 September 2005. However, we
will return to a dividend payment as soon as sustainable trading
profits are achieved.
Trading Prospects
The prospects for the business going forward are most
encouraging. The underperformance in recent years can be
attributed to many factors including legacy contract issues,
unforeseen order cancellations in manufacturing, high central
and divisional costs relative to the scale of business and a
limited focus in certain operating subsidiaries. To a large extent
we believe these issues have been addressed and I look
forward to reporting an improved performance in 2005/6. 03
We are fortunate that trading opportunities for the operating
subsidiaries are currently buoyant and we anticipate turnover
growth in the current year of approximately 30% enabling the
Group as currently structured to return to operating profit. We
are also working on ways of restructuring the Group to improve
operational and financial efficiency and reduce the impact of
central costs which will be more evident in 2006/7.
The principal opportunities that will enhance trading activity this
year and next are:
(i) Booth Industries continues to diversify away from its
traditional offshore oil and gas market. The business is now
recognised as a specialist designer and manufacturer of blast
walls and blast, security and tunnel doors.
The threat of worldwide terrorism and safety incidents such
as the huge fire at Buncefield provide Booth with increasing
opportunities. The business through its design innovation
has created new and growing markets in flood defence,
nuclear and tunnel infrastructure. Most notably the business
is benefiting from major tunnel works undertaken in the
Channel Tunnel Rail Link and at Dublin Port.
(ii) Jordan Nuclear, the Group's nuclear mechanical installation
and asset maintenance business, has grown over recent
years. The creation of the Nuclear Decommissioning
Authority (NDA ) in April 2005 has resulted in changes in
the procurement strategy of our principal client with a main
driver to consolidate its supply chain. This change has
resulted in some short-term workflow issues which we
expect to reverse as we progress through the year.
The current level of tendering for nuclear infrastructure
projects and ongoing maintenance framework contracts from
2007 is significant with the Group in a strong position to
bring together the efficiency, innovation and quality of
delivery of both nuclear plant manufacture (see below) and
installation.
Whilst Jordan Nuclear has been recognised historically as a
Sellafield focused business, recent strategy has resulted in
contract successes elsewhere including at Trawsfynydd,
Wales which has allowed further investment by the business
on site. This geographical expansion will be accelerated
during the year with additional efforts to develop the
Defence Estates market.
(iii) CHB-Jordan Engineering's principal focus will be to extend
the current geographical base of facilities management and
maintenance contracts to the oil, gas and petro-chemical
industries.
With greater returns being made by our principal global
petro-chemical clients in the past twelve months, which are
allowing them a greater degree of investment for the future,
we have decided to extend our offering going forward to
project engineering where we consider our expertise can
create additional margin opportunity. We will, of course,
consider the business risk in re-introducing this policy.
(iv) Jordan Manufacturing is participating in the first major
construction contract to be let by British Nuclear Group
(BNG ) since the formation of the NDA. We have received
a  3 million enabling works contract on the new  118 million
SPRS facility at Sellafield.
We are the preferred bidder for the balance of the
manufacturing order which would total a further  6 million
over the next eighteen months. This high profile contract
gives Jordan Manufacturing a unique position in the market
for bespoke design and manufacture of engineered solutions
to the nuclear industry. The business is also well placed to
benefit from future NDA capital and decommissioning
projects that have already been identified and announced
and are expected from 2007.
Whilst opportunities in the nuclear market are buoyant, the
business continues to diversify with successes in the
specialist stainless steel process engineering and
architectural markets.
Change of Name
To avoid confusion between Booth Industries Group PLC and its
subsidiary Booth Industries Limited we will propose a change of
name for the Group at the AGM to Redhall Group plc. 
Staff
The quality of staff across the Group is strong and I believe that
the introduction of more autonomy within the management of
the trading subsidiaries and the introduction of a growth strategy
within the Group will bear fruit in the form of improved trading
performance. Morale is high and expectations of reward for
performance will be honoured. I am grateful to the staff for their
ready acceptance of the new management team.
David Jackson
Chairman & Chief Executive
22 February 2006