 Booth Industries Group PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
1 Booth Industries Group PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
01
Chairman's Statement
Results
Group turnover for the year ended 30 September 2003 was
 43.8m (2002:  54.8m). Within that, turnover from continuing
operations was  31.7m (2002:  43.2m), the overwhelming
part of the decline in turnover occurring within Jordan Projects
Limited (JP ).
Net profit after taxation was  2.98m (2002: loss  2.4m). The
operating loss from continuing businesses was reduced to
 677,000 (2002: loss  2.64m, which includes the goodwill
impairment charge taken in that year).
In terms of the group's operating result, each of Booth
Industries Limited (BIL ), Jordan Manufacturing Limited (JM )
and CHB-Jordan Engineering Limited (CHB-J ) performed
satisfactorily, showing in aggregate an improvement over the
previous year. However, JP had a very difficult year as it went
through a programme to withdraw from certain markets and
refocus the business on its core skills in the nuclear industry.
Finally, the discontinued Oakland Elevators Limited (OEL )
business   normally our strongest contributor   produced a
disappointing result for the year.
Disposal
As announced in our interim results, your board has been
reviewing ways to revitalise the market price of shares in the
group, including restructuring the portfolio of business assets.
The exercise, undertaken during the course of the financial
year, revealed a significant undervaluation of OEL in the
balance sheet and the decision was taken to crystallise a
more realistic value through the disposal of that business.
The disposal took place on 30 September 2003, for an initial
cash consideration of  6.8m. Some  545,000 of that
consideration was returned to the purchaser following
determination of the net asset position of OEL at the time of
disposal. A further sum to a maximum value of  900,000 may
become receivable as deferred consideration, dependent
principally upon the performance of OEL in the twelve months
following disposal. No account has been taken of this
potential, deferred consideration in calculating the profit of
 3.9m recorded on the disposal.
In connection with the disposal of OEL, a sum of  760,000
was paid to the final salary pension scheme in which a
number of Oakland's employees participated.
Dividend
The group's operating results for last year did not justify the
payment of a dividend. However, in recognition of the gain on
the disposal of OEL, the board is recommending a final dividend
of 5p per share. Shareholders are asked to regard this as a
special dividend, funded out of a capital transaction and
somewhat in the nature of a partial return of investment. If
approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 1 June
2004 to shareholders on the register as at 14 May 2004.
Future dividend recommendations will be made in the light of
operating results and the availability of cash surplus to the
requirements of the ongoing businesses.
Financial Position
The proceeds of the sale of OEL allowed the group to retire its
overdraft facilities in full. Despite a small operating outflow,
cash at the year end amounted to some  4.3m, which
exceeded the aggregate of loan stock and bank term loan
outstanding, resulting in zero gearing at that date.
Operating cash outflow for the year was helped by the
presence of two significant, cash positive contracts which
were in their early stages at 30 September 2003. In the
course of the coming year that cash benefit is to be applied to
meet costs on those contracts. Since the year end the costs
associated with the disposal of OEL were expended, together
with a return of part of the purchase consideration as
described above. Further, a dividend amounting to some
 668,000 is proposed. For all of these reasons the level of
cash recorded at the year end is not anticipated to be
sustained in the future.
The group ended the year with a much stronger net asset
position of some  5.4 million after charging the proposed
dividend noted above. None of our assets are intangible. 02
Chairman's Statement
continued
Review of the Year
The results for the year under review have been dominated by
two major programmes: the refocusing of JP and the disposal
of OEL.
As previously reported, the Jordan businesses, acquired in
2001, have required considerably more effort than expected in
order to put them on a satisfactory footing. In particular JP ,
which was heavily engaged in capital projects, was unable to
secure and execute profitable contracts in a number of
industry sectors in that arena. That resulted in the decision to
concentrate its efforts on its core skills in the nuclear industry.
This exercise has required a major downsizing of resources
and a realignment of its customer base.
We are pleased to report that this major initiative is now
almost complete, and that there has been success in
achieving a satisfactory workload for the current year   a
significant portion of which is for decommissioning and
decontamination. We see that area as becoming increasingly
important in the current move towards management of the
nuclear legacy in the United Kingdom. We are still in the
process of closing out non-nuclear contracts; however, to do
that purely on negotiated, commercial bases is made more
difficult in the absence of potential ongoing relationships with
some of our customers. Taking into account the operating
results on unsuitable contracts, redundancy costs and final
contract provisions, an overall operating loss of some
 900,000 was suffered for the year.
OEL has been in the group since 1996. Since that time, its
business saw significant growth as it established itself as one
of the leading manufacturers of elevators in the UK, with a
particularly strong presence in the retail sector. The strategic
importance of that position was fully recognised in the value
achieved for the business on disposal. The sum of  6.8m was
received as initial consideration, of which  545,000 was
returned to the purchaser to make good a shortfall against
target net asset value. After expenses and associated pension
costs and charges arising from the disposal, the transaction
produced a gain of  3.9m. A further sum to a maximum value
of  900,000 may become receivable as deferred
consideration, dependent upon the extent to which OEL
retains its service portfolio customers and recovers its trade
debtors at the time of disposal. No account has yet been
taken of this potential, deferred consideration.
OEL's operating performance in this last year was
disappointing, both in terms of its new equipment sales and
its service and repair activities; these were compounded by
reduced margins and pre-sale provisions against potential
environmental and health and safety matters. Overall, a small
operating loss was incurred for the year. 
BIL was able to consolidate on its operating achievement of
the previous year, making a further satisfactory operating
profit. In particular, it continued to capture an increasing share
of both the onshore and the offshore markets for its fire and
blast resistant door and wall systems. This was reflected in a
very significant increase in its closing order book.
The benefits of the re-streaming exercise for the Jordan
businesses, undertaken in the previous year, were evident in
the performance of CHB-J, which produced a much improved
operating result from its site-based maintenance activities for
process industries. CHB-J is now able to offer services over a
much wider geographical area, winning important shutdown
work for major customers.
JM suffered a reduced workflow for the year. However,
operating results were improved in that business as a result of
careful margin and cost control. 
Pensions
In common with other employers operating final salary pension
schemes, changing actuarial assumptions with regard to life
expectancy and investment returns have impacted on the
group's pension scheme arrangements producing an
assessed deficit at 30 September 2003. Unfortunately, such
new legislation as is currently being proposed will not be
helpful to the ongoing control and management of the group's
scheme and your board remains watchful in this respect. Booth Industries Group PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
3 Booth Industries Group PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
03
In recognition of the sale of OEL and a consequent reduction
in the number of active employees in the group's final salary
scheme, it was decided to recognise that deficit to the extent
of  1.1m. Concurrent with that, it was considered appropriate
to accede to the Trustees' request to make a cash
contribution into the scheme of  760,000.
Directors
I became chairman in October 2003, following the retirement
of Roy Jordan, who had held that post in both executive and
non-executive capacities since 1997. I am pleased to report
that Mr Jordan agreed to rejoin the board in February of this
year, in a non-executive role. At the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting his appointment will be put to members for
ratification. At that meeting, C Lewis-Jones will retire by
rotation and offers himself for re-election.
Employees
This has been a challenging year for our employees and senior
management, both in terms of redirecting some of our
businesses, and also in seizing those positive opportunities which
have become available. However, I am pleased to be able to
express our sincere appreciation of their efforts in driving through
the programmes of change needed in the year. I wish to offer
particular thanks to the employees of OEL and trust that they will
continue to develop that business under its new ownership.
Prospects
The group enters the current year in a shape very different to
that of last year. The disposal of OEL has permitted us to
effect a significant reduction in debt, but the group is a much
smaller entity and is now without its largest historical
contributor to profits. We must also concede that growth by
acquisition is not a possibility. Our efforts will be to continue to
refine the remaining businesses in order to enhance their
values and move them all towards stable profitability. Whilst
we have some concerns about the workflow at JM, we are
encouraged by the strength of the order book at BIL and the
new focus in JP towards remaining, and succeeding, within its
competencies. Further, we believe that CHB-J is capable of
taking benefit from its new operational structure.
Notwithstanding the improvement in our share price since the
disposal of OEL, we remain sensitive to the way in which the
market reflects the value of our businesses and are keen to
ensure that shareholders will be able to achieve an exit from
their investment on a proper basis.
D N Ablett
Chairman 
25 March 2004