 2011
Botswana Diamonds plc (Botswana Diamonds  or the Company ) is a diamond explorer active in 
Botswana, Cameroon and Zimbabwe.  The Company was admitted to AIM in February 2011 having been 
spun out of African Diamonds plc, on its sale to Lucara Diamonds Corp.  The new company contains the 
former exploration interests of African Diamonds and the spin out was on the basis of one share-for-
one share.  The Company is managed by many of the team responsible for the AK6 diamond discovery 
in Botswana, now known as Karowe, which is coming on stream as a high value one million carat a year 
mine in Q1 2012.  On admission to AIM we strengthened our board by the addition of Andre Fourie, a 
former senior De Beers executive, as Technical Director, and subsequently we added further expertise 
with the addition of Robert Bouquet as Commercial Director.  Robert is a widely experienced diamond 
market specialist.
The fundamentals of the diamond business are improving.  Demand is expected to grow at over 6% a year 
while supply growth will be less than half of that.  Demand growth is focused on Asia and within a few 
years China, India and Korea will dominate world demand.  The supply side is more restricted because 
diamonds are hard to find.  There are only seventeen kimberlite diamond mines in the world and there is a 
lack of new discoveries.  There is an expectation of a growing supply gap from 2015 onwards.  This augurs 
well for prices which rebounded in 2010 and 2011 to peaks above those seen in 2008.
The Botswana Diamonds' approach to exploration is simple, but rigorous - go where the geology is best, 
go where there are or were mines and remember that you cannot find a mine in an office.  These rules 
dictate low overheads and an acceptance of political risk in return for better geological opportunities.  
Our focus is Botswana, the best diamond address in the world and home to some of the world's greatest 
mines such as Jwaneng and Orapa.  Botswana, which is the largest diamond producer by value in 
the world, is a landlocked country with a small population of 1.7 million, excellent infrastructure, a 
stable government, a strong economy and clear mining / foreign investment rules.  It is known as the 
Switzerland of Africa.  The centre of the diamond industry is the Orapa region where there are four, soon 
to be five hardrock mines.  Botswana Diamonds is focused on this area where we have existing licences 
and we are applying for additional ground.
In 2011 we conducted extensive bulk sampling on two diamondiferous kimberlites, AK8 and BK5.  The 
objective was to upgrade previous work, to define grade and value per carat.  This would feed into a 
scoping study estimating the commerciality of an open cast mining operation to supply one of the existing 
ore processing facilities.  Neither kimberlite produced the necessary results.  AK9, the third kimberlite 
with existing prospecting results, is proving enigmatic.  It has a thick basalt cover which could have diluted 
earlier drilling results.  We continue to evaluate options.  We have a licence in the northern part of Orapa 
on which we have discovered known diamond indicator minerals, but we have not yet identified the source.  
This area will be explored in 2012.
We believe there are more diamond mines to be found in Botswana and we are in advanced negotiations 
to partner with a group who have new technologies and approaches.  The objective of the joint work is to 
identify large diamondiferous kimberlite pipes with the potential to become high-volume, high-value long 
life mines.  The initial focus of this new venture will be in North East Botswana including the Orapa area.
The second area of active exploration is in Cameroon.  Cameroon, located in west central Africa, is 
a socially and politically stable country, blessed with extensive natural resources.  Having been split 
between the British and French states, Cameroon became a united republic in 1984.  Cameroon has 
extensive oil and timber industries and is developing gold and iron ore industries.
Cameroon is not yet known for diamonds.  Few people, if any, in the diamond industry, believed that 
Cameroon has geological potential for diamonds, yet a Korean company CNK Mining (CNK ), with no 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
01
BOTSWANA DIAMONDS PLC history of diamond mining, is developing a mine in the Mobilong area on the border with the Central 
African Republic.  The answer to the apparent conundrum is what are known as palaeoplacers.  
Palaeoplacer deposits are ancient alluvial type deposits which have cemented together over time into 
consolidated rock.  Until recently, gold and uranium have been the only minerals commercially mined 
from palaeoplacers.  The massive diamond discoveries in the Marange area of Zimbabwe are set in 
palaeoplacers.  Diamond industry professionals have found it difficult to understand, never mind accept, 
that commercial quality gemstones can be recovered, in economic quantities, from these deposits, but 
they are being mined.
In Cameroon, diamonds were discovered whilst CNK worked on a palaeoplacer gold opportunity at 
Mobilong.  On the basis of this initial discovery it obtained a mining licence and is now developing a 
mine which is due to come onstream in 2012.  Botswana Diamonds, because of our work in Zimbabwe, 
understands palaeoplacer diamonds and so applied for the licence adjacent to Mobilong.  A concession 
of over 8,000 sq kms was obtained.  During 2011 we prospected the concession, identified palaeoplacer 
rock and obtained a Stage 2 exploration permit over 400 sq km.  We believe that diamonds have been 
discovered and recovered by local artisans on our concession.  The next phase of exploration in early 2012, 
is to sample the ground to confirm if it contains diamonds and, if so, the type and quality of diamonds.  
Equipment and people have already been sourced.
Zimbabwe, our third theatre of action, is a country of immense potential in both agriculture and natural 
resources.  There is a well developed infrastructure and an educated workforce.  Recent years has seen 
political uncertainty and international sanctions which have held back development.  Zimbabwe has long 
been known for diamonds.  Two hardrock kimberlite mines exist, the Murowa mine and the smaller River 
Ranch mine.  De Beers and Rio Tinto controlled most of the diamond exploration concessions for many 
years.  They explored for kimberlite pipes - a search continued today by Botswana Diamonds and others, 
but the real excitement lies in palaeoplacers.
The huge Marange deposits in the south east of the country were prospected by De Beers who 
discovered diamonds but thought them to be of poor industrial quality - though some of them were as 
large as golf balls.  No development took place until recent years when Chinese, Lebanese and a South 
African company set up joint ventures with the state mining company, Zimbabwe Mining Development 
Corporation (ZMDC).  Current activities are focused on mining the alluvials which have eroded from the 
hard conglomerate; grades of between 2,000 and 8,000 carats per hundred tonnes of ore (cpht) are being 
reported.  Compare these grades to the mines in Lesotho which yield 1 to 2 cpht and those in the richest 
diamond mine on earth, Jwaneng in Botswana, grading about 100 cpht.  The difference is in quality: the 
Marange diamonds are reputed to be worth $20-$40 a carat compared to $2,000+ a carat for Lesotho and 
$400 a carat for Jwaneng.
While precise figures are difficult to obtain it is thought that current output from the existing mines at 
Marange would place Zimbabwe in the top 3 world diamond producers by volume.  Botswana Diamond 
directors and personnel have extensive experience in Zimbabwe.  We have been seeking a way into 
Zimbabwe diamonds for some years and we have a joint venture between ourselves, a strong local 
agribusiness and ZMDC.  We have put a proposal to government on a specific licence area and the 
application is before the President.  There is no indication when, or if, the proposal will be approved.
Approximately 30 kms to the Southwest of Marange, in the Chimanimani area, some diamonds have been 
discovered, once again in palaeoplacers.  Botswana Diamonds has an agreement with the group hoping to 
obtain a licence that we will act as operator to trial mine and, if viable, build and operate the mine.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued)
BOTSWANA DIAMONDS PLC
02 In a more traditional approach to diamond exploration, Botswana Diamonds holds 80% of Metro Mining 
Ltd, a local Zimbabwe company holding seven claims in the southeast, although local ownership is likely 
to rise to 51%.  There is a known 2.5ha kimberlite on the claims and it is proposed to conduct a bulk 
sample on this in early 2012.
FUTURE
The business fundamentals for diamond exploration are strong and the company's strategy is clear.  
Diamond demand is vigorous while supply is at best stable.  We are operating in the best areas to find 
diamonds.  We have strengthened an already successful team and we are confident that there are more 
mines to be found in Botswana where we hope to repeat our earlier success using new technology 
and new insights.  There is significant potential in the new palaeoplacer diamond fields.  We are at the 
forefront of this emerging sector.  We have prospective ground in Cameroon and an active programme in 
Zimbabwe.  The coming months will see activity in all three countries.  The board is confident of a bright 
future for Botswana Diamonds.
John Teeling
Chairman
16 December 2011
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued)
03
BOTSWANA DIAMONDS PLC