 2 Botswana Diamonds plc
Botswana Diamonds is about to enter a high powered phase of exploration. In early January 2014 the
first ground phase of our joint venture with Alrosa will begin when four Russian geologists will start
fieldwork on PL117 in the Orapa area of Botswana. It has taken two years to negotiate the joint venture.
Most of the time was well spent with Botswana supplying mountains of data and Alrosa analysing it and
identifying targets. PL117 contains the top ranking targets. A series of other targets are lined up to follow
including areas where deep sand cover has meant that no kimberlites have ever been discovered.
Ladies all over the world want diamonds. As 2 billion people become middle class in the next two
decades the demand for gem quality diamonds is expected to grow at a faster rate than the supply of
new diamonds coming to market. The result is expected to be rising prices.
Contrast this benign environment with the economic turmoil in the rough diamond segment, the
weakness in the share prices of diamond producers and the depression in the prices of diamond
explorers who find it almost impossible to raise fresh equity.
For a century De Beers maintained an orderly market in diamonds. They held a virtual monopoly on
supply which is the key to controlling prices. In recent years there has been significant structural change
and De Beers' monopoly is no longer. Our partner, Alrosa, the recently listed Russian producer, is now
the largest diamond producer in the world. A number of multinational miners, RTZ and BHP tried to gain
a foothold in the industry with limited success. A number of independents have emerged with a small
impact.
Marketing of rough diamonds has changed dramatically. The sight  in London has moved to Gaborone
in Botswana which is fast becoming the hub of the world diamond industry. Dubai has become a major
if not the major diamond trading centre and Indian buyers now dominate the trade. One result is
significantly more volatility in prices as auctions replace the sight . 
Botswana Diamonds, formed in 2011 from the exploration assets of African Diamonds, is focused on
Botswana. We hold very good prospective ground and in July 2013 signed a joint venture with Alrosa of
Russia to explore the Orapa area of Botswana. In addition to our Alrosa joint venture we hold ground in
the Gope region in a joint venture with a South African company while we have sole ownership of three
licences 30 km east of the Lethlekane mine in Orapa.
The Alrosa Joint Venture
Alrosa believes that its exploration techniques can predict the location of diamondifereous kimberlites
up to 100m below a cover of Kalahari sand and basalt. The first test of this will be in Q1 and Q2 2014
when the joint venture will explore PL117, a 2.9 sq km licence in Orapa, very close to the new Karowe
mine which is producing spectacular diamonds.
Few, outside of the mining industry, understand the difficulties of seeing  into the ground. Most new
discoveries are made from surface indicators or by exploring where there is or was a mine. But, once
the surface is explored you have to go deeper. There are no magic bullets. Despite the best efforts of
the world's leading mining companies the only lie detector is a drill hole.
Chairman's Statement
300986 Botswana Annual Report  21/11/2013  15:49  Page 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3
Chairman's Statement (continued)
Alrosa working in Siberia, with no access to Western technology, developed new techniques and
adapted existing methods to handle the tundra which has an overburden up to 200m thick before they
hit rock. Over decades Alrosa has refined these techniques and has had remarkable success to the
extent that they are now the number one diamond producer in the world by volume, with 17 producing
mines.
The directors of Alrosa believe that their techniques can work in Botswana, the home of diamonds and
the world's biggest producer by value. Most of Botswana is covered by the Kalahari desert. For 18
months Alrosa and Botswana Diamonds have gathered and analysed as much data as possible on
Botswana geology in the Orapa region - the logical place to start where four of the world's great diamond
mines exist.
Twelve targets have come from this analysis. We have applied for ground covering these targets. The
process is slow and opaque. Some of the ground was already under licence so we have had to adapt.
The top target identified by Alrosa was in an area covered by a small 2.9 sq km licence held by local
interests. We farmed into this licence. This is ground we know well having held it earlier under the African
Diamonds name. In 2004 we discovered a five hectare kimberlites, AK10, containing diamonds. We
spent over $2,000,000 exploring it only to drop it in favour of the AK6 discovery 6 km to the South. AK6
is now the Karowe mine of Lucara. A detailed work programme using four Russian geologists will
commence in January 2014. The objective is to refine drill targets. This should be followed by a drilling
programme in March/April 2014. There are high expectations for this work but it is grassroots
exploration.
Other Exploration Activities
While Alrosa is focused on the Orapa region they ran an analysis of the Gope area of Botswana. This is
in the Kalahari Game Reserve so environmental considerations are paramount. The area is highly
prospective. The Ghagoo mine is expected to come on stream in late 2014 while a significant discovery
has been made on KX36 in the East of the area.
South African and local interests had obtained a substantial block of 13 licences covering much of the
area. Botswana Diamonds has a joint venture with the licence holders whereby we can earn a 51%
interest in the block by spending US$940,000. Farming in makes sense. If you discover something
exploration spending very quickly brings you to 95%. If you find nothing it matters little what percentage
you hold.
Our geologists, with the assistance of Alrosa, have identified a series of targets which, finance
permitting, we will explore in 2014.
We had high hopes for PL170 a 100% owned exploration licence to the West of Orapa. The ground has
good geophysical signatures while diamond indicator minerals, garnets, ilmenities and spinels were
found. We drilled 4 holes in early 2013 but found no kimberlites.
The geology is good. The indicator minerals have come from somewhere. We successfully applied for
two adjacent licences. During 2014 we will collect, collate and analysis all of the available data. The
licences are valid until 2016.
300986 Botswana Annual Report  21/11/2013  15:49  Page 3 4 Botswana Diamonds plc
Other Projects - Cameroon, Mozambique and Bugeco
The outstanding opportunities and potential in Botswana led to a board decision to focus our activities
in this country. We have excellent ground in Cameroon adjacent to a developing Korean owned diamond
mine. We maintain contact with the Korean firm.
We evaluated an alluvial opportunity on the banks of the Save River on the Zimbabwe/Mozambique
border. The Save drains the Maranage area of Zimbabwe which is now a major world class diamond
producing region. There is undoubtedly potential in the area but the terms of the joint venture and the
costs of exploration outweighed the benefits.
A legacy asset of African Diamonds transferred to Botswana Diamonds at no cost is, a 35%
shareholding in Bugeco, a privately held Belgian explorer focused on the Congo. A diamond joint
venture came to nothing but a 20% interest in a large base metal licence has attracted the interest of
Robert Friedland the legendary mining entrepreneur. He is taking control of Concordia, a TSX company,
which owns the other 80% of the Congo licence. He wants 100% ownership so Bugeco is selling the
20% for cash and shares. When the Concordia and Bugeco transactions complete in Q1 2014 Botswana
Diamonds will look to dispose of its interest in Bugeco. Whilst the sale is dependent upon the completion
of the wider transaction and the structure of any disposal is yet to be agreed current estimates are a
return of about US$450,000 cash to Botswana Diamonds for the interest in Bugeco.
Future Strategy
Our exploration ambitions are limited by our finances. The retail market for fresh equity in AIM listed
explorers is virtually non-existent. Falling share prices not only dilute existing shareholders when funds
are raised but also make funding more difficult as investors believe that by waiting prices will be lower.
Often they are right. We are hoping to place shares with long term investors. The directors take shares
instead of financial compensation.
We will have the funds to operate the Alrosa joint venture which has a 2014 budget of  600,000 on a
50/50 basis. Our second priority is to fund the Gope area exploration. Diamonds have wonderful
demand fundamentals. They are very scarce and hard to find. The best way to find them is to use the
best technology, best and experienced people on the most prospective ground. This we are doing. We
look forward to the future with great confidence.
John Teeling
Chairman
21 November 2013
Chairman's Statement (continued)
300986 Botswana Annual Report  21/11/2013  15:49  Page 4