 The Group has achieved a year of record performance. 
The good results announced at the interim stage were followed
by a strong second half year performance, accompanied by
positive cash flow and an increase in land held for
development.
Results > Profit on ordinary activities before taxation for the
year ended 31 December 2002 increased by 30.9% to  104.7
million, compared with  80.0 million in 2001. This result was
achieved from total turnover of  461.3 million, 28.7% greater
than the previous year.
An expanding part of the Group's business is related to the
provision of affordable housing on land owned by third parties.
This activity provides early positive cash flow and high return
on capital employed. For the first time in the commentaries on
the full year results of the Group, the turnover associated with
this element of the business, some  8.0 million (2001:  7.0
million), has been separately identified from housing turnover.
Housing turnover stood at  445.4 million compared with
 334.5 million in 2001. This increase arose primarily from an
11% increase in the volume of legal completions and a 20%
increase in average sales price.
For the year, the operating margin remained stable with the
previous year at 23.8% whilst return on capital employed
increased to 25.1%. Basic earnings per share improved by
28.5% to 63.5 pence per ordinary share.
Dividend > The Board proposes a final dividend for the year
ended 31 December 2002 of 9.4 pence to be paid on 23 May
2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on
25 April 2003. This dividend, when added to the interim
dividend of 4.6 pence paid on 22 November 2002, totals 
14.0 pence for the year and is covered 4.5 times by the basic
earnings per share of 63.5 pence. The total dividend per share
for the year represents an increase of 10.2% over the total
dividend for 2001.
Market conditions > Activity in the housing market during
2002 was strong with well publicised increases in house prices
whilst property transactions in England and Wales increased by
some 9% to 1.6 million transactions. According to the Office of
the Deputy Prime Minister ( ODPM'), new private completions
in Great Britain in 2002 increased by 7.6% to 150,800 units.
Notwithstanding this increase, many forecasters are predicting
a requirement to supply new housing over the next twenty
years, in England alone, of some 225,000 homes per annum.
Base interest rates at 4.0% remained unchanged during the
financial year, and subsequent to the year end have been
reduced by 25 basis points. Although house price increases
have exceeded earnings growth during 2002 and as a result
affordability as measured by the house price/earnings ratio has
deteriorated, the competitive mortgage market and low base
interest rates have ensured that buying a house with a
mortgage remains approximately 39% cheaper than the
average mortgage cost over the last twenty years.
At the end of the third quarter of 2002, affordability trend
indicators reported that first year mortgage interest payments
as a percentage of average net earnings for a two income
couple was 17%. The same indicator reported 37% for 1990,
the highest the indicator has recorded in the last twenty years,
coinciding with the housing  boom' of the late 1980s. 
The average figure for this indicator between 1983 and 2002
was 19.8%, some 2.8 percentage points higher than the latest
published figure.
Notwithstanding that the demand versus supply relationship
and affordability remain positive for the housing market, much
of the resilience in the economy has been fuelled through
consumer confidence which remained strong throughout 2002.
Understandably, the geopolitical uncertainties in the Middle
East have raised fears that consumer confidence may not
remain so resilient.
Strategy > During 2002, the Group advanced its corporate
strategy to grow the business organically whilst retaining its
strong operating margins. This was, in part, facilitated through
the launch of the Northern region which enjoyed a successful
first full year of autonomy. The Group has now appointed a
Managing Director to run its new Eastern region which will
follow the now established regional development model
pioneered by Northern. This will ensure that the Eastern region
utilises internal services provided by other regions until such
time as it reaches critical mass, thus maintaining tight cost
control on the administrative overheads of this embryonic
region. The expansion plan of the Group will involve further
launches of regions, particularly in locations where the Group
has a satellite office of an already established region. 
As always, this expansion will be subject to market conditions.
Chairman's statement | Sir Nigel Mobbs
Page 4 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.bovishomesgroup.plc.uk Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 5
The financial objectives of the Group remain consistent,
focusing on achieving strong operating profit margins, above
target levels of return on capital employed and attention to
sound management of health, safety and environmental
matters. The Group has continued to invest in product
innovation and research and development into build techniques
with a view to enhancing profitability.
The Board > Further to the reconstitution of the Board on 
1 February 2002, positions on the Board have remained
unchanged. During 2002, Malcolm Harris continued to lead his
executive team and Stephen Brazier became Group Operations
Director on 1 February 2002. Previously, Stephen Brazier held
the Board position of Regional Chairman. Ron Walford, having
notified the Board of his intention to retire, did so effective
from 30 June 2002. I would like to express my thanks to Ron
Walford for his 30 years' service with the Group and for his
wise and meaningful contribution to the Board. David Ritchie
was appointed Finance Director effective from 1 July 2002,
having previously been employed as the Group's Financial
Controller. The three non-executive directors remained
unchanged during 2002 including myself as Chairman.
Corporate governance > The Group continues to be
committed to good corporate governance and applies the
provisions of the Combined Code. After careful consideration of
the Higgs Review (Review of the role and effectiveness of non-
executive directors) issued in January 2003, the Group is
generally supportive of the re-affirmation of the principles of
best practice. However, the Board considers that certain
recommendations contained in the report are too formulaic
and prescriptive and as a result, if implemented, could lead to a
control environment which subordinates the valuable
judgement of the Board and a flexible and common sense
approach to individual company circumstances. Consequently,
the Board is making representations to the relevant authorities
outlining its concerns. In raising these concerns, the Board aims
to assist in the development of a strong corporate governance
culture which in turn will assist the Group in its aim of
maximising shareholder return.
Employees > On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all
of our employees. It is only with their commitment, enthusiasm
and expertise that the Group has been able to achieve the
record profits during 2002. I am pleased that through their
hard work our employees have been able to share in the
success of the Group, historically by way of the Group's Profit
Share Scheme and currently from the recently launched Share
Incentive Plan. Many of the Group's employees hold shares in
the Company and the strong take up for the Save As You Earn
Share Option Scheme means that many employees are saving
monthly to acquire shares. This will enable our employees to
participate further in the future of the Company.
At the 2002 Annual General Meeting the Company passed a
resolution approving and adopting a Share Incentive Plan. This
plan has been launched and will allow the award of shares in
the Company to employees based on performance. It will also
provide employees with an opportunity to purchase shares in
the Company each month.
Prospects > The housing market in 2002 witnessed a period
of strong growth both in activity and in sales prices. It is
unlikely that the growth in sales prices, reported by the Halifax
for the year to December 2002 at 26.4%, will be repeated in
2003. A period of sales price growth more in line with earnings
growth is expected and would most likely return a sense of
stability to the housing market. The fundamentals of the
housing market are sound with demand in the areas in which
the Group operates exceeding supply and affordability
remaining positive. Underlying retail price inflation in 2003 is
expected to be benign, at or around the Government's target
rate of 2.5%. This will support continued interest rate stability
such that the cost of mortgage finance should not adversely
affect affordability during 2003.
The Group's strategy is to offer good value housing in locations
close to large conurbations within easy commuting distance
and along strong employment corridors. The Group has no
current developments in central London and monitors closely
investment levels within the M25. This approach, established by
the Group some years ago, minimises its exposure to changes in
the housing market. The Group's trading experience to date in
2003 suggests that the housing market will be less buoyant
than in 2002 but that demand in the sectors in which the
Group specialises will remain firm and that prices will continue
to rise.
Nigel Mobbs
Chairman  Operating in a good housing
market, with a stable
economic environment, the
Group delivered an excellent
performance with all
segments of the business
increasing their profit.