 4 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Dear Shareholder BP's performance in 2006 can be best
described as mixed. A great portfolio of assets and excellent
people who are executing a consistent strategy remained as
our core strength. However, results could and should have
been better. The ability to benefit from higher oil prices was
impaired by some of our major assets not being available.
For many years, BP has been a greatly admired group,
reflecting its strategic vision, determined execution and high
aspirations in areas such as safety, the environment and the
community - and I believe it still is. However, a number of
events in the US, starting with the tragic incident at the Texas
City refinery in March 2005, have deeply shocked the group,
led to increased public scrutiny and had an effect on BP's
reputation as a responsible operator. We must ensure that the
lessons we have learned will enable us to demonstrate rapidly
that we are again in the forefront of our industry in all respects.
Our aspirations remain unchanged and, in the vast majority
of our activities, we continue to be justly proud of our safety
record, our environmental initiatives and our high ethical
standards. However, it is quite clear to your board that the
group's record in some areas has not met the standards
to which we aspire. Above all, we must ensure that, at all
locations, those who work for us do so safely.
The board's governance system has long balanced support
for the executive team in the development of the group's
strategy with the need to ensure effective monitoring of its
implementation. In this context, both the full board and its
committees have considered the significant events of the
year and their impact on BP's business and reputation.
The work of each of the committees is described in more
detail in the governance: board performance report on pages
36-43 of Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2007 and also
on pages 76-82 of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee,
chaired by Dr Walter Massey, has played a particularly
important role during the year. The audit committee, chaired
by Sir Ian Prosser, has similarly had important work. I remain
confident in the work of all the committees and our overall
system of governance.
There have been a number of inquiries into the events at
Texas City and other aspects of the group's operations. In
particular, on the recommendation of the US Chemical Safety
and Hazard Investigation Board, which was investigating the
Texas City incident, an independent panel was commissioned
by BP to examine the safety culture of our US refineries. The
panel was chaired by former US Secretary of State James A
Baker, III and reported to us in early January. It found that,
while the focus of the group had been on personal safety
performance, where significant improvement had been
achieved, there was insufficient emphasis on process safety.
The panel further found that, by concentrating on improving
personal safety statistics, the group had developed a false
sense of confidence in its safety culture. In essence, the panel
concluded that BP had fallen short in its approach to process
safety at its five US refineries. It made a number of
recommendations, all of which we have considered and
will implement. One recommendation was that the board,
for at least five years, should engage an outside expert,
independent of the executive, to report to it on the progress
of the implementation of the panel's recommendations.
Your board will keep you fully advised on the implementation
of those recommendations to which we, and the group's
executives and employees, are fully committed. Indeed, we
have long had a tradition of emphasizing safety and, in nearly
20 years of reporting, we have seen a significant improvement
in our safety performance.
It is important to stress that we have a clear strategy and
an underlying business that remains robust. BP has a set of
world-class assets that will ensure the continued success of
the group into the medium term. Our cash flow has remained
strong during the year. The board has therefore been able
to continue its policy of returning value to our shareholders
through both increased dividends and buybacks. I am pleased
to confirm a dividend, to be paid in March, of 10.325 cents per
share. The annual dividend paid of 38.40 cents or 21.104 pence
represents an increase of 10% in both dollar and sterling
terms. During 2006, we repurchased some $15.5 billion
of shares. Of these, 27% were for cancellation and the
remainder placed in treasury. Your board will continue to
keep its distribution policy under review.
I would like to pay tribute to John Browne, his executive
team and all our employees for their contributions to the
creation and maintenance of a robust, cash-generative
business. It has been a major task for the executive team
to respond to the pressing issues of 2006 while diligently
managing and guiding the business forward in a challenging
market. Although oil prices have remained high, we are in a
softening market and prices are some way from their peak;
costs of capital equipment and services, however, have risen
faster than inflation.
This year, the board, like many companies whose shares
are traded on both sides of the Atlantic, has streamlined the
company's reporting process by using a common document
as the basis for both our Annual Report and Accounts and
our Annual Report on Form 20-F. As a result, the Annual
Report and Accounts now contains information that, in the
past, would only have appeared in our US reporting. The
short-form Annual Review continues to give a summary
of the group's operations for the majority of our private
shareholders. We will keep our reporting process under
review, including a greater use of electronic communication
wherever we are able to do so.
In the summer of 2006, John and I agreed that he would
stay as chief executive until the end of 2008. Early in 2007,
we both decided that it would be in the group's interest to
name a successor in order to provide a short orderly transition
Chairman's letter over a period of six months. The chairman's committee was in
a position to identify a succession candidate in Tony Hayward,
then chief executive of the exploration and production
segment. Accordingly, John will retire on 31 July 2007 and
Tony has been appointed by the board to succeed him.
Tony has had an outstanding career at BP and the board
believes he has the intellect, skills and personal qualities to take
your company through the coming challenges and changes.
John Browne is one of the great businessmen of his
generation and has led the transformation of BP into one of
the biggest energy groups in the world. His performance over
the past 12 years has been extraordinary. He has consistently
been identified by his fellow chief executives as the most
impressive businessman in Britain.
I would like to thank John on behalf of the board for his
great achievement in leading the transformation of BP from
a mid-ranking regional oil company to what it is today.
Following Tony Hayward's appointment as group chief
executive designate, Tony has passed his responsibilities as
chief executive of exploration and production to Andy Inglis,
who was appointed to the board on 1 February 2007. Andy
was previously deputy chief executive of exploration and
production and has held a number of posts in that segment
during his career with the group, which started in 1980.
Michael Wilson stood down as a director last year to take up
the post of Canada's ambassador to Washington. He had joined
the BP board in 1998 at the time of the Amoco merger after
a distinguished political and business career. He had a keen
interest in corporate governance matters, being the chairman
of the Canadian Coalition of Good Governance. He had brought
all these strengths from his political and business background
to our board and committee deliberations.
John Bryan will stand down at the forthcoming AGM. John
also joined the BP board at the time of the Amoco merger
and has made significant contributions to both the audit and
remuneration committees. His experience as a former CEO
in the US has been invaluable to the board over the years.
We shall miss his contribution at the board and his
commitment to board and committee work.
I was pleased to welcome Sir William Castell as a new
non-executive director in July. Bill is chairman of the board of
governors of the Wellcome Trust and is a non-executive director
of the General Electric Company, having been chief executive
of Amersham plc and subsequently president and chief
executive officer of GE Healthcare. Bill is a member of the
chairman's, the audit and the safety, ethics and environment
assurance committees.
I believe that the board has the right mix of skills and
experience to address the issues that we face. I will keep this
under review as we refresh the board over time. There remain
significant challenges for the group in securing its business into
the medium and the longer term. The board will be focusing on
these in the coming year. On behalf of the board, I would like
to thank you for your support.
Peter Sutherland
Chairman
23 February 2007