 8    BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
Carl-Henric Svanberg
Chairman
Dear fellow shareholder,
In 201 1 we re-laid the foundations of BP . Our objective was to ensure your 
company is able to deliver sustainable shareholder value in the months and years 
ahead. Above all else, this is dependent on BP having the trust of the societies in 
which it works - today and over the long term. 
During the year the board oversaw a major reorganization designed to 
establish a stronger, safer BP . The progress made demonstrates that the company 
can and will recover from the consequences of the Deepwater Horizon accident. 
We remained mindful of the tragic events seen in 2010 and the need to ensure 
such an accident never happens again. 
 I thank you for the patience you have shown as we work to rebuild your 
company.
The board set three priorities for BP . Safety must be enhanced and 
embedded. Trust must be regained. Value must be created through a clear 
strategic plan. While these priorities are simple to express, substantial activity  
is required to turn them into tangible and lasting change.
On safety, the board supported and challenged Bob Dudley and his 
executive team as they restructured and enhanced BP's processes, systems and 
culture. Furthermore, the board initiated a review of the way BP manages, reports 
and acts on risk, including board oversight.
On trust, we ensured that BP continued to meet its commitments in the 
Gulf of Mexico. We co-operated with every official investigation and prepared 
for litigation. We worked closely with governments and regulators, and we 
communicated openly with shareholders and the wider world.
On value, the board set a 10-point plan focused on growing operating cash 
flow and increasing shareholder returns. The company will play to its greatest 
strengths and prioritize value over volume. Relentless execution of this strategy  
is now needed so we deliver value to our shareholders.
BP's financial and operating performance in 201 1 has created a springboard 
for growth. In the upstream, we secured 55 new exploration licences in nine 
Chairman's letter Business review: Group overview
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011    9
countries, and our Refining and Marketing segment delivered very strong 
earnings. Our $38-billion divestment programme is strengthening the group's 
financial position and focusing our portfolio.  
In 201 1 we restored your dividend, and I am pleased to report that we 
increased the dividend by 14% in February 2012, in accordance with our policy.
The wider world did not stand still in 201 1. We saw rapid and sometimes 
unpredictable change. This included escalation of the European debt crisis and 
political upheaval in countries where BP has significant operations, such as Libya 
and Egypt. We kept a close watch on these developments and acted where 
required. Our international advisory board assisted us in this task.
The company continually looks for ways to form new relationships and 
enhance its partnerships around the world. Our new alliance with Reliance 
Industries in India is a significant venture in a fast-growing market. Russia is 
particularly important for BP . Our TNK-BP alliance is hugely successful. Since 
acquiring 50% of the company for around $8 billion, BP has received around 
$19 billion in dividends - which equates to around $2 billion per year. In 201 1, 
we saw new opportunities in Russia, but these did not progress. This region 
still has excellent potential for BP and we remain committed to it. The nature 
of our industry is rarely straightforward, and BP will never shrink from pursuing 
opportunities simply because they involve challenges.
 In my letter last year, I commented on the evolution of the board. This has 
continued. My goal is to ensure that the board combines a broad set of skills and 
experience. BP's board should be diverse in the widest sense. It should have 
the best blend of the best people from our industry and from other sectors. BP 
remains committed to meritocracy as well as diversity.
Andrew Shilston and Professor Dame Ann Dowling have joined the board  
as non-executive directors and Brian Gilvary has joined as an executive director.
Left BP's LNG activities 
are focused on building 
competitively advantaged 
liquefaction projects. 10    BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
Chairman's letter
Andrew, a former finance director at Rolls-Royce, brings substantial experience in 
the oil and gas industry through previous roles at Enterprise Oil and Cairn Energy. 
Ann is Head of the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge, 
where she is Professor of Mechanical Engineering. She brings exceptional 
academic and engineering expertise to BP . 
Brian Gilvary is now our chief financial officer. His broad experience of BP , 
gained over 25 years in influential roles such as the chief executive of integrated 
supply and trading and as deputy group CFO, makes him a valuable addition. 
Our previous CFO Byron Grote takes up a new role as the director responsible 
for corporate business activities. Byron has made a substantial contribution over 
his lengthy BP career and I am pleased we have retained his services as a board 
member. 
Bill Castell has decided not to seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM. Bill 
has made a substantial contribution to the board, not least as chair of the safety, 
ethics and environment assurance committee. Bill has devoted all the time that 
was asked of him and more in the service of the board and the company. I speak 
for the whole board when I thank him sincerely for all he has done. Bill's role 
as senior independent director will be taken by Andrew Shilston, who will be 
supported on internal matters by Antony Burgmans.
The board committees have always played an important oversight role, 
freeing the main board to concentrate on strategic matters. All of our committees 
have been heavily involved this year. Each committee has dealt with different 
challenges, and all of the directors have been unstinting in the time they have 
given. 
The Gulf of Mexico committee, formed in 2010 and chaired by Ian Davis, 
has been invaluable in allowing the board to prioritize its work during the 
restoration of the Gulf of Mexico and the ensuing litigation. During the year, 
Antony Burgmans became chair of the remuneration committee and Brendan 
Nelson became chair of the audit committee. Paul Anderson took over the chair  
of the safety, ethics and environmental assurance committee in December.
Left The East Azeri 
platform in the Caspian 
Sea in Azerbaijan. BP 
is the largest foreign 
investor in the country.
Right In 2011, the 
chairman visited the 
Alberta oil sands in 
Canada including the 
Sunrise Energy Project 
- BP's joint venture 
with Husky Energy.
In detail
For more information  
on the board and its 
committees, see 
Corporate governance 
report. 
Page 126 Business review: Group overview
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011    11
During the year, the remuneration committee has worked with Bob Dudley and 
his team to remodel the reward system within the group. The system below 
the board is now clearly focused on the long term and is similar to that used for 
executive directors. I believe our approach to rewarding directors balances the 
company's priorities of driving financial performance, meeting our responsibilities 
as a corporate citizen and providing value for our shareholders. 
Against all of this background, I have been keen to see how the board 
could work more effectively. During the year, a working group of non-executive 
directors reviewed board tasks, roles and processes. This work, coupled with 
our board evaluation, has led to a number of changes in the way in which the 
board operates. These are set out in the board performance section of this 
annual report.
201 1 was a testing year for everyone at the company. The board was 
impressed by the way in which Bob and his executive team tackled a range of 
considerable issues. We were also struck by the tenacity and dedication of BP's 
employees. On behalf of the board, I thank everyone for their efforts. 
In 2012 we must execute our 10-point plan and continue to meet our 
commitments in the Gulf of Mexico. While many of the investigations into the 
causes of the accident have been completed, we still face major litigation in the 
US during 2012. This must run its course, although we are pleased with the 
continuing progress that we are making with settling some of these claims. 
As part of its strategic role, the board must be mindful of the long-term 
developments in our industry. BP Energy Outlook 2030 tells us that rising 
populations, increasing levels of life expectancy and improving standards of living 
will continue to generate growing demand for energy. The challenges in terms of 
supply are immense. I expect these dynamics to provide BP with opportunities 
for decades to come. The report projects that fossil fuels will be providing around 
80% of the world's energy in 2030. This will require companies such as ours to 
overcome substantial technical and physical challenges. Lower carbon resources 
and energy efficiency technologies are required to play their part in addressing 
both demand and emissions. BP must understand and adapt to these changes  
in order to remain sustainable in this changing world.
I believe BP ended the year stronger and safer, with increasing forward 
momentum and a clear strategy matched to the world we see ahead. This 
is a great company, with a strong board and excellent people. I thank you for 
your continued support. I will report back to you on BP's progress at this point 
next year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg
Chairman
6 March 2012