 Chairman's Statement
Introduction
It has been a year of major change.
We have completed the refocusing of the group on its regulated water business. During the year we completed the sale of
Lawrence and sold our interest in Purton Carbons, we also agreed with our partners to terminate our involvement in Watergrid and
after the year end completed the sale of the majority of our international leakage control business. Accordingly the group will in the
foreseeable future undertake no material activities apart from the regulated water business.
Ofwat completed its determination of price limits for the five year period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010 for the group's regulated
water business as part of the industry wide review. In December 2004, Ofwat set out its Final Determination which, after careful
consideration, the board of the regulated water business accepted.
Return to Shareholders
In light of the finalisation of the price limits and related output assumptions for the regulated water business for the period 1 April
2005 to 31 March 2010 and the disposal of Lawrence and the other non-regulated businesses, the Board carried out a review 
of the group's capital requirements. The review concluded that shareholders' interests are best served by increasing the level of
gearing in the regulated water business, increasing its inter-company loan to Bristol Water Group plc and reducing the level
of cash held elsewhere in the group. This will increase the capital efficiency of the group and allow a further return
to shareholders.
Accordingly on 20 May 2005 the Board announced proposals to effect a return to shareholders of 148
pence per share (approximately  30m in aggregate). Full details were set out in a Circular posted to
shareholders on 20 May 2005. The proposals are subject to shareholder and Court approval and the
required additional finance being put in place. It is expected that the proceeds will be posted to share-
holders by 15 July 2005.
In order to make the future share price more comparable with the historic share price and to try to
maintain the value of options over ordinary shares, subject to shareholder approval and the return
proceeding, the company is proposing a consolidation of its ordinary shares. For every 13 ordinary
shares held at 6pm on 5 July 2005, shareholders will receive 10 consolidated shares.
The group plans to raise  57m of additional long term borrowings within the
regulated water business through the Artesian programmes.
Approximately  35m of these borrowings will be utilised to finance the 
capital expenditure and debt maturity requirements for the current year and part 
of 2006/07 and a contribution of  7m to reduce the deficit in the final salary 
pension scheme. Approximately  22m of the additional borrowings will be used
to provide a loan from the regulated water business to the parent company.
Should approval for the return not be obtained, the surplus funds will be used
to finance the regulated water business's longer term capital expenditure,
debt maturity and working capital requirements. The contribution to the 
regulated water business final salary pension scheme is conditional on the
return proceeding.
2
Bristol Water Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 On a pro forma basis including the contribution to its final salary pension scheme,
the return will increase the net indebtedness in the regulated water business from
 140m at 1 April 2005 to approximately  169m, representing approximately 62 per
cent and 75 per cent respectively of the regulated water business's Regulatory
Capital Value (RCV) at 1 April 2005, and will reduce the level of cash balances held
elsewhere in the group by approximately  9m to approximately  5m.
Whilst the regulated water business will need to raise additional debt over the 
current regulatory period to fund its capital expenditure obligations, debt maturity
and working capital requirements, the Board believes that it will be able to maintain
a debt to RCV ratio in the range of 75 to 80 per cent over the current regulatory period.
The cash balances retained by the group will assist the group in managing its working capital
requirements and any outstanding obligations from its previous non-regulated businesses.
Dividends
As previously announced, for the financial year ended 31 March 2005 the Board is proposing, as with the interim dividend already
paid, a final dividend equivalent to that for the preceding year. This will result in the total for the interim and final ordinary share 
dividends for each of the two financial years being approximately  5.3m. Given the return of value completed in February 2004, this
represents a significant increase in the level of underlying dividends. Assuming the proposed return and share consolidation 
are approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be proposed and paid on a per consolidated share basis. Accordingly, the final
dividend is expected to be 24.43p per share, equivalent to 18.79p per existing ordinary share.
The following table summarises actual and proposed dividends per share and their equivalents in relation to the February 2004 
consolidation and the proposed consolidation:
Relating to ordinary shares held
Prior to the After the After the
2004 2004 proposed
Financial year 53 for 100 53 for 100 10 for 13
ended consolidation consolidation consolidation
31 March 2004 Interim dividend paid 4.16p
Equivalent per share after the February 2004 
consolidation to 7.85p
Final dividend proposed and paid 18.79p
Total 26.64p
31 March 2005 Interim dividend paid 7.85p
Equivalent per share after the proposed 
consolidation to 10.20p
Final dividend per consolidated ordinary share 
expected to be proposed at the 
2005 Annual General Meeting 24.43p
Equivalent per ordinary share prior to the 
proposed consolidation to 18.79p
Total 26.64p 34.63p
3
Bristol Water Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005

The group is now 
focused on its 
regulated water business.
 
MOGER WOOLLEY
CHAIRMAN The Board anticipates recommending dividends for the year ended 31 March 2006 of approximately  5.8m. Whilst actual dividends
declared or recommended will depend, inter alia, on the trading performance of the group, pension charges, the cost of debt 
and the effect of the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards, it remains the Board's intention to pursue a 
dividend policy that maintains such value in real terms for the period to March 2010. This represents a significant underlying
increase in the dividend per share given the reduction in the equity base of the group when the return is implemented.
Trading and operational performance
The group results for the year are significantly affected by exceptional items relating to the exit from the majority of our non-
regulated activities, together with exceptional operating costs of  2m related to the restructuring of the regulated water business.
The results also reflect for the first time, the full year effect of the additional interest costs following completion of the  51m return
to shareholders in February 2004. The results and disposals are discussed in detail in the Operating and Financial Review.
The regulated water business continued to deliver high quality services to customers and at the end of March had substantially
delivered the key required outputs for the five year period 2000-05 as agreed with Ofwat in the 1999 Final Determination of price
limits.
Rainfall during the winter period was much lower than normal, but impounding reservoirs have
now recovered to approximately 84% full against a normal guideline target of 93%. The 
difference does not represent a significant operational risk but does mean that full 
use of abstraction available from the Sharpness Canal will be made during the next
few months to manage the rate of reservoir draw down.
Board changes
I have been asked by my fellow directors to seek re-election at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting and continue as Chairman for 
a further year, which I have agreed to do.
Sir Richard Gaskell has decided to retire and not seek re-election
having served as a non-executive for 15 years, including 6 years
as Deputy Chairman and 6 years as Senior Independent Director.
Subject to his re-election at the forthcoming annual general
meeting, Trevor Smallwood will become Deputy Chairman and
Senior Independent Director.
After 17 years of service as a non-executive director of the company ,
including 4 years as Chairman of the Audit Committee, Tom Lachelin
resigned from the Board at the end of March 2005.
I would like to thank both Sir Richard and Tom for their independent
thinking and considerable contribution and commitment to the group.
The Board proposes that Chris Curling be appointed a director of the company
with a resolution being put to the annual general meeting. He has been a 
non-executive director of Bristol Water plc since March 2004. For 15 years until
December 2003 he was Managing or Senior Partner of the law firm Osborne Clarke.
4
Chairman's Statement continued
Bristol Water Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
Following these changes the boards of the company and Bristol Water plc will have
the same non-executive directors.
After 37 years service to the group, Roger Wyatt, managing director of the regulated
water business has indicated that he will retire at the end of March 2006. We currently
expect his duties to be shared between the other executives rather than seek a
replacement, reflecting the more focused nature of the group going forward.
Prospects
The year again saw the delivery of high quality services to our customers. Other than this the results
for the year are not representative of the future. They reflect the final year of the 2000-05 regulatory period for the regulatory 
business, restructuring costs preparing for the next five year period together with the financial impact of the disposal of Lawrence
and exit from our other non-regulated activities.
Following the disposal of all material non-regulated activities and the increased focus on the regulated water business, the group's
future performance will be closely linked to that of the regulated water business.
The new price limits agreed with Ofwat for the five year period 2005-10 will enable us to deliver the obligations set out in the PR04
Final Determination and to improve the profitability of the regulated water business. Although Ofwat set challenging efficiency 
targets, the board of the regulated water business believes that it will be able to deliver the relevant service outputs within the 
targets set. We remain determined that our consistently high standards of service to customers and quality of water supplied will
remain key features of the business.
Future interest charges will increase as a result of the additional debt and 
reduction in group cash balances resulting from the proposed return to
shareholders.
The Board is confident in the prospects for the refocused group.
It remains for me to thank all of our staff for their continuing 
contribution and willingness to take on the challenges of the
future.
Moger Woolley
Chairman
26 May 2005
Bristol Water Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005