 BULLION RESOURCES PLC
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
- 1 -
Bullion Resources PLC (the Company) was listed on The Alternative Investment Market of The London Stock
Exchange on 10 June 2002. This followed a successful private placing of 12,500,000 ordinary shares of 1p each at a price
of 40p per share.  The Company has three subsidiaries - Black Reef Gold Limited and its two mining operations in South
Africa, Addeney Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited and Drylands Goldmine (Proprietary) Limited, all of which
were acquired as set out in the Prospectus.
Significant excitement existed at the Board, Adviser, Broker and Investor level. During the week of promoting the
Company to the London investors the gold price was at a five year high and the market was very bullish on gold. The
South African Rand was trading in excess of eleven Rand to the US Dollar. Market belief was then that since the
Company would be incurring costs in a soft currency and paying dividends in a hard currency, the Company was ideally
positioned to benefit, on both the gold price and an expected further weakening of the Rand.
It was envisaged that the Company would implement its vision speedily and commence mining at Drylands by July 2002
and at both Palmietfontein and New Machavie by April 2003. Full production was anticipated to be achieved by
December 2002 for Drylands and December 2003 for both Palmietfontein and New Machavie.
Because of the envisaged low cost capital acquisition philosophy, a mill house comprising nine complete used mills, of
which seven were in good condition, was acquired in July 2002 for an amount of R2.9m. This was at a cost lower than
budgeted.
Whilst earthworks and civils commenced for the plant comprising two mills at Palmietfontein, surface rights owners
created delays at New Machavie and the Drylands plant commissioning ran into difficulties.  During construction at
Palmietfontein an electrical accident occurred which tragically resulted in a fatality.  An official inquiry was held and the
outcome is awaited.
The media reported in November 2002 that a complaint had been lodged against Dr. Deon Vermaakt, the competent
person who had produced the Competent Person's Report contained in the Company's Placing Document. The complaint
was eventually submitted to Dr. Vermaakt on  23 April 2003 and he undertook to provide the Company with details of the
complaint and his response.  Despite numerous requests to both the Geological Society who allegedly lodged the
complaint and to The South African Council of Natural Scientific Professions, Dr. Vermaakt's governing body, as well as
to Dr Vermaakt personally, the Company has been unable to determine details of the complaint as it is sub judice.
Accordingly, Dr. Vermaakt declined his previous undertaking to the Company to provide a copy of the complaint and
outline the details of his response. Dr. Vermaakt's position remains that he stands by his report and denies all allegations.
As a result, as appears later in this Report, the Company resolved to carry out its own investigations with respect to the
Drylands and Palmietfontein properties.
At that stage a full mining authority had not been granted and mining at Drylands was restricted to the previously mined
heap leach pad dumps. Management felt confident that they would overcome the difficulties and the Board announced on
30 October 2002 that the Drylands plant would produce its first gold in December 2002. However, only meagre gold
recoveries emerged in January and February 2003.
To compensate for the loss in late production at Drylands and for the loss of planned production at New Machavie,
construction of a second mill and Carbon in pulp (CIP) plant was commenced at Drylands. This was intended to also
serve as a back-up for the existing Drylands plant.
As a result of the various problems facing the Company, the Board met with the Company's Advisers and Brokers on 28
January 2003, following which Mr. Mellett resigned as a director. The executive responsibilities were realigned, an
experienced engineer appointed and various candidates interviewed to supplement executive management. In addition,
the Chairman commissioned a risk review to identify and quantify all known and potential risks. A firm of metallurgical
consultants was appointed to reassess the metallurgy composition and advise on recovery improvement. From this
assessment it became clear that the initial Drylands plant was inadequately and inappropriately constructed as a CIP plant
as opposed to a Carbon in leach (CIL) plant and that metallurgy and grade were issues that had to be addressed. As a
result all further capital expenditure was put on hold.
These issues were discussed with the Company's Advisers and Brokers following which an announcement was made on
16 April 2003 that its operations at Drylands and Palmietfontein had been put on hold, that the Managing Director, Mr.
Van Den Berg had resigned, and that Mr. Mellett who had resigned as a director had been suspended from his duties. The
Chairman was appointed to oversee the day-to-day control of the Company.  It was further announced that Lion Mining
Finance of London (LMF) had been appointed to advise on the status of current operations, their future potential and to
assist the Board with evaluation of acquisitions currently under discussion. BULLION RESOURCES PLC
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
- 2 -
Following an initial report by LMF and after discussions with the Advisers and Brokers, the Board voluntarily requested
the suspension of the Company's shares on The Alternative Investment Market on 25 April 2003.
The LMF report was finalised and concluded that in view of the operational and construction difficulties, the marginal
and complex grade of the resource and the present economic conditions (strong Rand and a low gold price), it was
uneconomical to continue with the present resource base.
Since the LMF report the Company has sourced further information from companies previously involved with Drylands
and Palmietfontein including information on drilling previously carried out.  This information is presently being digitized
and interpolated and an appropriate report will be made to shareholders.
It was accordingly decided by the Board, after consultation with the major investors and shareholders, together with the
Company's Advisers and Brokers that alternative investment opportunities would be pursued and existing cash resources
be conserved.
As a result, three major investments have been identified and discussions are presently underway to reach an early
conclusion with regard to the way foward.
Whatever investment the Company ultimately decides to embark upon the Directors have resolved that it must be one of
substance and one which will not involve any unacceptable risk or significant outlay of the Company's funds in the
acquisition cost.  Paramount in the Board's thinking is that shareholder value must be restored as quickly as possible but
also as safely as possible. The Company is also mindful of the effects of any large dilution of its present share base and
this is being addressed as part of the negotiations.
The Company is further considering a substantial restructure of its Board of Directors including the appointment of
several new directors one of whom will become the executive head of the Company.  Announcements will be made as
soon as agreement is reached.
The Company is also cognizant of the need to keep its shareholders informed on all matters and has resolved to issue
regular bulletins as to all of the above matters.
Full and final settlement agreements have now been completed with Messrs Mellett and Van Den Berg with respect to
both their involvement as directors and employees of the Company.  As part of the settlement each of them agreed to
enable the Company to make use of 80% of their shareholdings in the Company in its sole discretion for the purposes of
use in future acquisitions by the Company, as part of incentive packages for new employees and directors and for transfer
to investors.
Under the rules of The Alternative Investment Market the Company was due to have published its Annual Report by the
30 June 2003.  Because of the decision to cease the two mining operations the Board has decided to treat the accounts on
a discontinued operation basis, which has resulted in a significant diminution of asset values. As a result the accounts
needed to be reassessed in order to incorporate this change. The net effect of this assessment is now reflected in the
Annual Report published herewith. This treatment can be re-adjusted should operations recommence.
The Company's suspension has now served its purpose insofar as it has enabled the Company to investigate the problems
of its operations and management, drastically cut costs and, accordingly, the Company has requested its Nominated
Adviser, Grant Thornton, to lift the suspension with immediate effect upon publication of the Annual Report.
I wish to thank my other Board members for their assistance and co-operation during this difficult period and specifically
thank Patrick Kennedy for his leadership and hard work in finalising the Annual Report. And for the hard work by Daryl
Bank in assisting your Chairman.
14 August 2003
Johan Meiring
Chairman