 3
Annual Report 2008
This year has seen continuing progress by the Company. Sales continued to grow and we achieved our
modest sales target; a combination of direct sales revenues together with income from royalties and
licences. We continued to strengthen the protection of our intellectual property with new patents applied
for and existing ones granted. During the last quarter of the year there were some important approvals
received and contracts won. The scale of those orders which were met on time proved our manufacturing
partnership was capable of meeting the rapid growth and scaling of quantities that our current plans
demand.
Highlights of the year include:
  Sales in March 2008 in excess of  400,000
  Marks & Spencer approval of Byosan for the food industry
  European Patent Granted for Byotrol's technology
  Consumer Products joint venture formed and fully functional
  Two igniter brands containing Byotrol sold by Fellowes & Byofresh, sell over 1,000,000 and 
500,000 SKU's respectively
Financial Results:
During the year, the company achieved revenues of  947,873 (2007: 673,542) which was an increase
of 40.7% and recorded a loss of  2,773,186 compared with a loss of  1,744,140 in the previous year.
The balance sheet reflects a net worth of  2,612,294 at the year end and the cash in hand was
 1,312,960.
We were pleased to achieve its first profit break-even month in March 2008. The Board is aware that
continued progress is needed in building revenue and every effort is being made to ensure sales growth.
Margins achieved during the year have met targets and expenses have closely followed the budgeted
expectations.
Strategy:
We believe that Byotrol's technology is creating a hygiene revolution. The properties of Byotrol combine
to give the potential to beneficially affect the lives of virtually everyone. There have been no significant
breakthroughs in generally available hygiene materials for over 25 years. Byotrol's powerful, safe, long
lasting/residual, broad spectrum, ecologically benign technology creates vast opportunities across a
huge number of extremely large global markets.
To properly exploit the potential the company aims to:
  Work in partnership with key providers in target markets
  Be a globally recognised expert in the field of safe microbial control
  Target certain markets for small scale direct sales as igniter brands
  Target niche areas and use success there to demonstrate larger market potential and the
technology's wide applicability
  Create a global brand that is synonymous with safe effective trusted microbial control
Healthcare:
This year has seen progress, albeit occasionally frustrating, in this very cautious but highly visible market.
  Restated and focused partnership with Synergy plc which led to a  125,000 order in March 
2008 and expansion and re-energising of their Byotrol product ranges for the UK and into their
international network which has expanded substantially over the last 9 months to over 60 countries.
  Synergy installed circa 4,000 Byotrol hand mousse dispensers throughout Care UK's care 
home network
Chairman and Chief Executive's Review
Wesley Devoto
Byotrol A4 Annual Report 4 col TEXT 2008   27/6/08  1:38 pm  Page 3 4
Chairman and Chief Executive's Review
  Initial supplies to small numbers of USA hospitals of EPA approved Polysphere and FDA hand 
sanitiser
  Lord Norman Warner joined the company as an advisor
  Health Protection Agency's  Rapid Review Panel level 3 recommendation with a consequent 
major study commenced in Manchester Royal Infirmary
Food & Beverage:
This key target market has shown good progress in the UK during the year. Our major task has been to
differentiate Byotrol from older less efficient technologies by a combination of high level approvals and
rigorous testing in situ.
  First new disinfectant product approved by Marks and Spencer in 9 years in January 2008
  Heinz adopts Byotrol mousse and disinfectants in its high risk Baby Food facility in Kendal
  Opening orders received from Perdue Poultry in the US
  Supplies to US restaurants through distributor network
   150,000 of teat wipes and dips for agricultural milking parlours was delivered in March 2008
Industrial & Technical:
Our main objective in this field is to prove our technology's adaptability and acceptability in a selection of
niches chosen to demonstrate Byotrol's exceptional features in difficult and or highly visible sectors.
  Our partner Byofresh achieved sales of over 500,000 units of Byotrol containing pet grooming 
products, winning new product of the year from Pets at Home
  Fellowes have distributed over 1 million Byotrol SKU's with Byotrol in their Virashield range to 
office retailers in over 25 countries in the EU & ROTW
  Byotrol materials have successfully been used to protect Venetian architecture from algal risk 
and damage. The first chemical product this century to be approved for use.
  Unipart, the marine and leisure company, launched a range of Byotrol based cleaners and
protectors after the financial year end
Consumer Products:
This is the largest potential market for Byotrol technology, and considerable resource has been applied
with highly satisfactory results. Following the successful completion of our joint venture with ?What If!,
the world's largest innovations company in July 2007, several important steps were undertaken and
important discussions and negotiations continue including:
  Two new patents were scoped and submitted to ensure maximum possible protection of our IP
in this sector
  Consumer market research on the claims made possible by Byotrol was undertaken in China, 
India, Western Europe and the USA
  Discussions were opened with four of the world's global consumer suppliers; of those
discussions three are still ongoing
  Talks commenced with a small number of international companies that are sector leaders or 
similar in major consumer fields. Board level conversations are taking place with four of them.
Hospitality & Leisure:
During the year we have achieved a few small but very significant Igniter brand  opportunities. We
recognised the need for focus on other key markets and this applied a constraint on human resources
available for this large market.
Annual Report 2008
Lord Norman Warner
Byotrol A4 Annual Report 4 col TEXT 2008   27/6/08  1:38 pm  Page 4 Annual Report 2008
Chairman and Chief Executive's Review
  Working with our distributor Integrated Resources International, we achieved Boeing approval 
for use on and in aircraft and Polysphere is now part of the routine cleaning of Alaskan Airways
  In the UK Techclean Plc, an office hygiene service company, signed a supply contract for office 
equipment contract sanitisation products based on Byotrol.
Agriculture:
Byotrol's safety (it can safely be sprayed directly onto living plants) combined with its other properties led
to some very encouraging results in field trials in the USA. These tests were designed to support future
products for fruit vegetable and cereal growers. Our focus in the food and beverage sector also resulted
in our launch of a highly effective hoof  foot bath for sheep and cattle, improving farm animal welfare in
line with European initiatives and improving milk production.
  50% reduction in use of heavy metal fungicide when used in rotation with Byotrol gave
significant performance improvement against citrus canker
  UK niche success in the treatment of equestrian hoofs led to the launch in January 2008, of 
Byotrol containing hoof guard for farmers where we are seeing significant progress
Intellectual property 
In total the company has six patent streams; three covering core technology, one dealing with applications,
one with test methods and one with detection. These are being actively supported and maintained across
the globe.
  European Patent granted
  Australian patent granted
  A specialist patent was granted in the field of tissue preservation.
  Two specialist patent applications were submitted one to protect a unique testing protocol the 
other a device for rapid assay of microbes present on a surface.
  Byotrol is a registered trademark in the EU, USA and several other important target nations
  The company has protected a number of its product trademarks worldwide 
Quality Management:
The company maintains high standards of quality assurance, management oversight, and supply chain
diligence. These were audited during the year by T V, international quality standard auditors.
The Byotrol Team:
During the year the Byotrol team was placed under intense pressure to deliver our strategy. The stringent
standards we set ourselves for partnership and the brand values we are developing demand extraordinary
talent. This has meant a continuing process of upgrading and training our staff to meet the challenges of
our business. We are proud to say that those very same values have acted as a magnet to some of the
very best and most able people in our industry who have strengthened our small but outstandingly
qualified group.
It our very pleasant duty to thank all of that team and to express our fullest confidence in their ability to
deliver our future successes.
Current Trading and Outlook
The business has an almost overwhelming degree of interest in its products. This comes from both our
primary and secondary target markets. Significant workstreams are developing regularly and the
prioritising of these is a challenging task.
5
bef ore
after
Venice 2008
Byotrol A4 Annual Report 4 col TEXT 2008   27/6/08  1:38 pm  Page 5 Chairman and Chief Executive's Review
There is a hugely significant balance to be struck between sales revenues in the short term and business
value in the long term. It is certain that the best and most significant deals and partnerships are almost
without exception the ones that take greater time, effort and data to bring to fruition.
We are extremely confident of success for Byotrol and are committed to the maximisation of the
company's value for our shareholders and will continue to work diligently to implement our strategy.
Wesley Devoto David McRobbie
Chairman Chief Executive
3 July 2008
6
Annual Report 2008
David McRobbie
Byotrol A4 Annual Report 4 col TEXT 2008   27/6/08  1:38 pm  Page 6