 1
AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
Overview 
I am pleased to report that AEC returned to profit during the year ended 31 December 2011. This 
result was underpinned by a particularly strong performance in our Singapore operations as well as 
the return to profitability of our English language teaching business in London despite the ongoing 
challenging trading conditions in the UK. 
Revenues were up by 6% to  19.1m and profit before tax of  0.36m represented a  0.80m 
turnaround on last year's loss before tax of  0.44m. This profit was delivered after one-off costs 
totalling  0.53m, which comprised a  0.35m investment in the expansion of the Malvern House 
brand overseas together with goodwill impairment of  0.18m relating to the Group's withdrawal 
from non-core areas.
Our plans to develop the Malvern House English language teaching brand outside the UK 
progressed well and, during the year, we brought our English language offering in Singapore and 
Malaysia under the Malvern House brand. After the year end, we opened Malvern House English 
language colleges in Ireland and Oman. In March 2012, we also expanded into a new market in the 
UK, the government-funded sector, with the acquisition of Skye Training Ltd (Skye Training ).
The Group's financial position remains strong and net cash at 31 December 2011 was up 23% year 
on year to  3.81m (30 June 2011:  3.19m and 31 December 2010:  3.09m). We believe that AEC 
is well placed to take advantage of the opportunities available to us and the Board continues to 
view growth prospects positively.
Financial results
Revenues for the year to 31 December 2011 rose by 6% to  19.1m (2010:  18.1m). The pre-tax 
profit for the year was  360k compared with a loss of  439k in 2010. Profits are stated after 
exceptional costs of  350k relating to investment in the overseas expansion of the Malvern House 
brand and a goodwill impairment of  176k, following the withdrawal from non-core areas. The
profit after tax was  342k (2010: loss after tax of  290k) and earnings per share was 0.73p (2010: 
loss per share of 0.85p).  
The cash inflow from operating activities was  1.1m (2010:  0.2m) whilst net cash inflow 
generated from operating activities was  2.0m (2010: outflow of  0.1m). Net cash at the end of the 
year stood at a healthy  3.81m (31 December 2010:  3.09m). 
Dividend
The positive outlook for AEC has given the Board the confidence to recommend a final and total 
dividend of 0.20p per ordinary share (2010: 0.20p). This will be paid on 24th August 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at 13th July 2012, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting. The ex-dividend date is 11th July 2012. 2
AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
Business Development
AEC has performed well despite mixed market conditions across its territories. In Asia, our 
Singapore operations outperformed, delivering record results, while in Malaysia student numbers 
were adversely affected by the turmoil in North Africa. Our London operations, which form the 
hub of our English language teaching provision, returned to growth and profitability although the 
uncertainty surrounding student visas, especially the entitlement to work while studying, continued 
to have an impact. We completed the implementation of the Malvern House brand across our 
overseas English language teaching operations in Singapore and Malaysia, and invested in the 
establishment of new colleges in Oman and Ireland, which opened post-year end, as well as in 
Cyprus. These corporate initiatives should provide additional growth opportunities for us.
A major highlight in the year was the performance of our Singapore operations, where revenues 
increased by over 25% year-on-year. This was supported by structural changes in the private 
education market which have followed the Singapore government's introduction of new quality 
standards in 2010 requiring education providers to achieve the EduTrust certification. As one of 
only 40 providers to have attained the EduTrust Certificate for a four year period, we have been 
able to take advantage of the market consolidation and expect to see students numbers continue to 
rise during the course of 2012. Our University of Wales Bachelor and MBA programmes 
performed exceptionally well with student numbers more than doubling. This is particularly 
pleasing as we implement strategies to increase our Higher Education provision in Singapore. We 
are seeking to establish relationships with other UK universities and have also strengthened our 
recruitment resources in China and the rest of the region. On 1 May 2012, we were pleased to 
appoint Dr Chong Chee Leong as head of our Singapore operations. He brings over 25 years' 
experience in the academic sector and previously was deputy chief executive officer and academic 
dean of one of Singapore's largest independent education and training institutions.
The colleges in Malaysia were affected by a significant drop in the number of students, especially 
for English language training, from the high volume markets in Northern Africa but were broadly 
able to maintain overall revenues. Despite this drop and the cost of replacing volumes, operations 
in Malaysia were breakeven at the pre-tax profit level. The professional programmes all performed 
well, particularly ACCA and CFA. Our Malvern House brand is now the market leader in 
Malaysia for the provision of these programmes and was awarded the Gold Standard by ACCA in 
recognition of its achievements. We have been working on the development of new areas of 
opportunity during the year and invested further in the markets in Northern Africa where we are 
beginning to see some return to growth. Malvern House Malaysia now offers a full degree 
programme with the University of Wales, which is based  in country'. The college will also 
continue to raise the level of its programmes to prepare for the opportunities being granted to high 
performing education institutions in Malaysia to become  deemed' universities, with their own 
university campuses. 3
AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
Malvern House in the UK grew by 5% and returned to profit, reflecting the benefits of the 
remedial actions taken in the second half of 2010. The market in the UK remained difficult as 
overseas students in private institutions are now unable to subsidise their study costs by working 
part time and this has affected long term courses in particular. We expect this will continue to 
affect our UK performance during 2012 however we are implementing a new business plan to 
support profitability. After the year-end, in March 2012, we took the decision to expand into the 
government-funded training sector with the acquisition of Skye Training. Skye Training adds a 
complementary revenue stream to our UK business and we anticipate the business growing 
strongly in 2012 and beyond, albeit from a small base.
The expansion of English language teaching overseas under the Malvern House brand continued 
strongly during the year, with our operations in both Singapore and Malaysia successfully 
rebranded. Our English language teaching joint venture in Cyprus is profitable and will continue to 
contribute in 2012. We opened our two new Malvern House colleges in Ireland and Oman in 
March 2012 and expect both to be in profit in early 2013. The Malvern House results were 
achieved after the investment of  0.35m in the new locations in Oman and Ireland and in 
continuing to research potential UK university partnerships. The underlying turnaround from a loss 
in 2010 to a profit before tax in 2011 was therefore approximately  1.3m.
During the year, the Board also took the decision to scale down activities in Vietnam, following a 
review of operations and we have reduced costs and the operations to a minimum level.
Educational Resources Ltd (ER ), the Group's London Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
examinations subsidiary, experienced a difficult year and investment was increased to seek new 
opportunities in both new and existing markets. In particular, we are focusing on new markets in 
India, Pakistan, Nepal and the Philippines. Hong Kong continued to be slow as changes to the
education market there impacted further and the market in Malaysia remained very competitive. 
These conditions resulted in a reduction in revenue of 16% compared to the previous year and 
profits also declined compared to the previous year. As we grow our college activities, 
examinations become less of a strategic focus and now represent only 10.8% of our overall 
revenue. 
Staff 
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome the staff from our new operations to the Group 
and to thank all staff for their hard work and efforts during the period. It is rewarding to see the 
positive attitude as we have implemented the necessary changes to ensure the Group returns to 
sustainable profit growth. 4
AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
Prospects
During 2011, the Board focused on returning the Group to profit and establishing the platform for 
sustainable growth, including expansion into new geographic locations. In 2012, our focus is on 
the expansion of the Malvern House brand overseas as well as the growth of our operations in 
Singapore and Malaysia. In the UK, we are concentrating on the implementation of the new 
business model at Malvern House in London and the integration of our newly acquired 
government-funded training business, whose order books show significant growth potential.
With strong cash balances, AEC is well placed for ongoing development and the Board remains 
confident that the Group will record increased profitability in 2012.
Liam Swords
Chairman  
30 May 2012