 ANNuAl REpoR t AND fiNANCiAl st AtEMENts 2009
08
Chairman's Statement
following a difficult and sometimes traumatic last eighteen 
months, the past week has seen a dramatic development 
for the Company.
on 18 september 2009, we announced the terms of a 
recommended cash offer for the Company from Eurasian 
Natural Resources Corporation plc ( ENRC') at 20p per 
share. ENRC has already secured approximately 55.18% 
of the share capital of CAMEC through a combination 
of irrevocable undertakings, letters of intent and share 
acquisitions. Your directors are unanimously recommending 
that shareholders accept the offer and we have all 
irrevocably undertaken to do so in respect of our own 
beneficial shareholdings in the Company.  
for CAMEC, as with most other resource companies, 
2008/9 was a traumatic year with the global economic 
meltdown particularly affecting the mining sector, with a 
concomitant collapse in commodity prices and capital 
investment. fortunately, due to our swift and drastic action 
taken across the group, CAMEC is emerging from the 
downturn relatively robustly and as mentioned has now 
attracted a bid from a major mining company. ANNuAl REpoR t AND fiNANCiAl st AtEMENts 2009
09
CAMEC maintains a world class portfolio of assets 
which now includes, amongst others, copper and cobalt 
in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC'), coal in 
Mozambique, platinum in Zimbabwe, bauxite in Mali and 
fluorspar in south Africa, and whose production and 
development are supported by one of southern Africa's 
largest logistics and trucking operations. We have invested 
in advancing this portfolio and i believe with the rebound in 
the commodities markets, and the increase in demand for 
raw materials, CAMEC placed itself in a position to derive 
value from its portfolio.
in the DRC, following a strong performance in the first 
half of the year, shareholders will be aware that the Board 
reacted to the global crisis quickly in october 2008, halting 
all production following the dramatic decline in commodity 
prices, in particular cobalt tumbling from above us$50lb to 
below us$10lb and copper from in excess of us$8,000 per 
tonne to below us$3,000 per tonne. this notwithstanding, 
we took the considered decision to maintain our work 
force. Although this had a significant negative impact on 
our financial performance, with cost of sales exceeding 
revenues, i believe this decision benefited us in a number 
of significant ways, allowing us to recover and emerge from 
the downturn more quickly than many of our peers.  
firstly, i believe the decision to maintain our workforce 
demonstrated to the government of the DRC our 
investment strategy and commitment to the country and 
assisted us in the country's Mining Review administrative 
process relating to our mining licences. this was 
completed in March 2009 and confirmed our licences and 
ratified our relationship with g camines. CAMEC was one 
of the first companies to pass this country wide review 
process. there remain many other major companies who 
have yet to complete this process.
secondly, we had the ability to restart operations at 
our plants at kakanda and luita as soon as the market 
conditions allowed. Consequently, when we witnessed 
an improvement in the cobalt prices at the end of the first 
quarter, we were then able to restart cobalt operations at 
Mukondo Mountain accordingly.  
During the care and maintenance period, we also 
implemented a number of initiatives aimed at reducing 
future production costs, including removing overburden 
from the Mukondo Mountain ore-body which significantly 
reduced the strip ratio. these measures, while having an 
immediate impact on 2008/9 expenditure, benefited the 
economics of the operation as we restarted production.   10 ANNuAl REpoR t AND fiNANCiAl st AtEMENts 2009
11
in April this year, we also recommenced copper  
operations at luita. 
prior to the onset of the global economic meltdown, as 
part of our strategy of looking to consolidate copper 
and cobalt assets in the DRC, we also bought 47.14% 
of Copper Resources Corp. ( CRC') and then 50% of 
societe Miniere of kabolela and kipese sprl. the value of 
these transactions was greatly affected by the collapse in 
confidence in the mining sector which is reflected in the 
financial statements. the revaluation of the CRC investment 
was completed as part of the programme of write downs 
and impairments.  
in spite of the impact of the global economic crisis, we 
were able to continue to focus on our key assets in order to 
enhance their individual values, to the benefit of CAMEC's 
shareholders. We prudently reviewed our exploration 
expenditure in order to reduce our cost base and channel 
our capital into the projects that we believed would have 
most impact on the valuation of the Company in a recovery 
situation.  We are of course cognisant that any major 
development would require access to outside finance.  
in the DRC we are committed to providing JoRC compliant 
resource figures for a number of our exploration assets 
including Disele, Mukondo and kakanda North. this will 
not only place a definitive value on our concessions but 
also assist us in optimising the mining process in order to 
increase production operations at luita and kakanda.  
in the t ete province of Mozambique, considered by the 
Company as one of the world's largest untapped coal 
regions, an initial JoRC resource of 1.03 billion tonnes 
of coal was published by sRk Consulting (south Africa) 
(pty) limited ( sRk') on our licence area l871. sRk 
considers multiple coal horizons identified are of economic 
importance and shallow dip makes these horizons 
potentially amenable to large scale open cast mining.  
the next step is to implement a feasibility study to fully 
assess the production potential of the project and realise  
its inherent value.
following exploration and development work we now 
have a Ni 43-101 compliant, indicated and inferred 
Mineral Resource containing 10.69 million ounces of 4E 
at the Bokai platinum prospect ( Bokai'), located within 
the selukwe subchamber, on the southern extent of 
the Zimbabwean great Dyke. All indications are that, 
conditions permitting, t odal Mining, of which we hold 60%, 
Chairman's Statement (continued) ANNuAl REpoR t AND fiNANCiAl st AtEMENts 2009
12
is set to deliver a world class platinum mine out of the 
Bokai prospect, ultimately producing circa 120,000 ounces 
4E per annum. the project continues to progress well 
and we are working closely with the local companies and 
organisations to ensure that the benefits of such a project 
are received by the local community as well as investors.  
With the decline in the platinum price from above 
us$2,000 per oz to below us$1,000 per oz, we also  
made a significant write down of this project. 
in Mali, Butty, Herinckx & partners B.V. ( BH&p'), 
independent experts in bauxite geology, metallurgy and 
mining completed a JoRC compliant inferred, undiluted 
and washed resource estimate for our fal a licence of 
439 million tonnes of bauxite, equating to 152 million 
tonnes of contained, smelter grade Alumina (sgA). their 
submission also stated that fal a has the potential to be 
a world-class source of sgA with a preliminary projected 
cash cost of us$182 per tonne sgA, directly competing 
with the sangaredi project (BHp Billiton, global Alumina 
Dubai Aluminium and Mubadala Development Company) in 
neighbouring guinea, putting fal a in the lower quartile of 
the cost curve.
 
in south Africa we control the Doornhoek fluorspar 
project, where positive results from a recently completed 
revised scoping study doubled the sAMREC compliant 
indicated and inferred resource from a previous exercise 
at Doornhoek to circa 30 million tonnes at 20% Caf2.  
Doornhoek is believed to be one of the world's largest 
fluorspar deposits, with potential to contain in excess of 
50 million tonnes of Caf2 at similar grades to those in the 
scoping study. We recently expanded our interests with the 
acquisition of further contiguous licences which we believe 
are amenable to open pit operations.
A further area where we have benefited in relation to 
our competitors was through the control of our logistics 
operations. We have always seen logistics as crucial 
to operating in Africa, something that has been a huge 
contributing factor to our rapid progress into production.  
Additionally, this provided us with cash flow during the 
period when our copper and cobalt production operations 
were on care and maintenance. 
With regards to its agricultural operations, the Board 
considered it an opportune time to divest these assets 
and focus on mining. Accordingly DECA was spun out into 
Agriterra ltd.
Chairman's Statement (continued) ANNuAl REpoR t AND fiNANCiAl st AtEMENts 2009
13
Conclusion
this has been a highly challenging period for the Company, 
although i believe that through rapid decisions on strategy 
we managed to a certain extent, to weather the global 
economic storm. We have what we feel is a world class 
portfolio of assets which, subject to finance, can be 
developed rapidly to production.  
this position has been recognised in ENRC's offer for the 
Company, full details of which will be published in due 
course. 
finally i'd like to thank all those involved with the Company 
for their hard work and support.
phil Edmonds
Chairman
24th september 2009 