 Introduction
The financial year ended September 2006 has been one of
development and transition for the Company.
Following the withdrawal from all higher risk non-automotive
related activities and with the restructuring and re-financing of
the Company now completed, and with the disruption this
caused behind us, I am pleased to report that we are already
seeing the benefits of the difficult decisions taken coming through
in terms of new business and improved relationships with key
customers and suppliers. Customer volumes were up 9% in the
period, which is a trend the directors anticipate to continue.
The treatment of costs associated with the Company's
restructuring activities have been treated as a one-off exceptional
charge.
Against this background, I am pleased to report that we have
traded in-line with management expectations and that the
underlying results are slightly better than market expectations.
Centurion is now exclusively focused on the automotive market
and has all the necessary processes in place to meet the rigorous
demands of the industry.
Financial Performance
The year to 30 September 2006 has been one of transition.The
trading loss reported at the half year to 31 March 2006, largely
reflected the restructuring and exit from the high street sector.
The second half however, saw a recovery in the automotive
business, which moved into profitability. Overall, this produced a
break-even second half performance.
Turnover in the period was  7.25 million against  14.01 million in
2005, which reflects our withdrawal from non-automotive
activities.
Operating loss, pre-exceptionals was  0.43 million against a pre-
exceptional loss of  2.14 million in 2005.
Exceptional charges in the period includes an exceptional credit
of  1.01 million (2005:  nil) and relates to the write down of
debt following the re-financing on 13 March 2006. Also included
is an exceptional charge for redundancy and other costs
following restructuring of  0.57 million (2005:  0.78 million) and
a further charge of  0.09 million (2005:  0.48 million) relating to
the disposal of certain fixed assets.
The comparative 2005 year reflects an exceptional charge of
 5.92 million.The majority of this ( 5.77 million) related to a
stock write-down for obsolescence and valuation considerations
resulting from issues previously reported in the supply chain
management and stock purchase, categorisation and net
realisable value procedures.
The loss on ordinary activities before taxation and pre-
exceptionals was  0.69 million compared to a pre-exceptional
loss of  2.76 million in 2005.
Basic loss per share pre-exceptionals during the period
amounted to 8.81 pence per share, (2005: re-stated loss per
share of 435.00 pence).
The statutory operating loss was  1.0 million, loss before tax was
 0.26 million and loss per share 3.32p.
Net cash inflow from operating activities amounted to  0.36
million against  0.77 million in 2005.The cash flow implications
relating to the exceptional items during the year being reported
totalled  0.38 million (2005:  4.44 million).
Following the restructuring in February 2006, net debt has been
reduced from  4.54 million at the start of the period to  0.53
million, whilst stocks have decreased by around  1.51 million to
 0.62 million and debtors have reduced from  1.97 million to
 1.74 million in the period.
Shareholders' funds amounted to  0.75 million against a deficit of
 2.06 million in 2005.
Review
During the course of the financial year, the Company has
remained firmly focused on developing and strengthening existing
relationships with a number of high-profile car manufacturers,
whilst also looking at new opportunities to add further marques
to our portfolio.
2 Centurion Electronics Plc
Centurion Electronics Plc - Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006
Chairman's Statement Through intensive hard work and commitment at both
management and operational levels, the Company has, during the
financial year, become increasingly well placed to build-on and
exploit both new and existing opportunities within the
automotive infotainment sector.The Company supplies a variety
of in-car entertainment products to a total of 15 different
vehicles across our customer base.
We have placed particular emphasis on maintaining high levels of
service across our customer base, which includes leading
marques such as the Toyota Group and Renault. On the whole,
our customers have retained an encouragingly receptive view of
our products and work closely with us to promote the
installation of our products both commercially and geographically.
As a way of indicating our progress, it is very pleasing to report
that trading with Toyota has progressed particularly well, which is
witnessed through the significant increase in product sales during
the last quarter of the financial year.We believe that Toyota
remains a progressive installer of infotainment systems, although
most European OEMs have also embarked on projects to launch
a variety of systems. In addition, research shows that there is
clear evidence that installation rates are increasing for rear seat
entertainment systems overall.
Centurion has a number of opportunities in the pipeline to
increase the range of its products being  fitted as standard
equipment', and as such, we remain confident that we will be able
to further develop existing and new business relationships.
As part of this, we are already making satisfactory progress in the
development of our first factory fit  product for one of our key
customers.This program, which is expected to commence during
the first half of the new financial year, will see the introduction of
a specifically designed rear seat infotainment system being
installed on the assembly line directly into the vehicle.
Significant progress has also been made with our strategic supply
partners. For example, during the second half of the financial year,
we successfully introduced new Bluetooth headphone technology
for automotive applications.This product was developed for a
specific customer contract and to date we are pleased with initial
customer feedback.
New Business
During the second half of the financial year, we successfully
secured a number of new business contracts.
In April 2006, we secured contracts with a UK based luxury
carmaker, to develop and supply an in-car entertainment system.
We were particularly delighted as this contract added a further
highly respected car manufacturer to our existing high profile
client base.
The product, which consists of twin TFT headrest screens for rear
seat passengers, displays images from DVD, Auxiliary Input and
analogue TV sources. It has a unique wireless sound transmission
system. Initially the systems are being fitted as optional
equipment, but they will be installed directly into the vehicle at
the automaker's vehicle assembly plant; this is planned for the first
half of the financial year ending 2007.
In July 2006, we secured an additional contract to supply an
integrated in-car entertainment system for one of Renault's new
models being introduced in 2007.
This new vehicle to the Renault range will be offered with an
optional twin 8 TFT screen seat back mounted system with
integrated DVD loader, wireless headphones and remote control.
The system, which has been designed and developed in-house by
our own skilled engineering and technical teams, is designed to
offer independent viewing options for the rear passengers of the
vehicle whilst also being compatible with the latest media
formats.
It is anticipated that the entertainment systems will be supplied
directly into Renault's supply chain and will contribute to
revenues commencing during the fourth quarter of our financial
year ending September 2007.
3 Centurion Electronics Plc
Centurion Electronics Plc - Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006
Chairman's Statement (continued) Quality Accreditation
Our on-going commitment is to provide our customers with
products that adhere to the highest standards of quality, reliability
and performance.We continue to work with our approved
accreditation body,TUV Product Services in order to achieve
ISO/9001:2000 and ISO/TS16949 accreditation.
It is anticipated that the ISO/TS16949 accreditation will be
completed by July 2007.
People
On behalf of the Board and all our Shareholders, I would like to
welcome all staff who have joined the Company during the year
and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our
people for their on-going hard work, focus and commitment to
the business.
Developing Strategy
Our on-going strategy is to further broaden our automotive
business base whilst continuing to provide high-quality service
and innovative products to all our customers. Negotiations
continue to progress well with a number of highly-regarded
global automakers for the supply of a variety of in-car
infotainment systems.
Since the year end, the Company has opened an office in Hong
Kong in order to support our on-going business growth strategy.
The primary objective of this new Far East operation will be to
establish closer supplier partnerships within this increasingly
important geographic region, while also accelerating the
identification and introduction of emerging technologies.
Outlook and Future Prospects
The directors believe Centurion is well placed to benefit from
the changes made over the past 6 months.The relationships with
our customers are strong and over the next year the directors
expect additional volumes to be generated.
We are in discussions with a number of other leading
manufacturers, which could extend significantly the number of
manufacturers to which Centurion is the lead supplier.
It is the objective of the directors that Centurion become the
leading supplier of in-car entertainment to the automotive
industry and the board believes it is now strongly placed to
achieve this objective over the medium term.
Ernst Kastner
Chairman
4 Centurion Electronics Plc
Centurion Electronics Plc - Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006
Chairman's Statement (continued)