 C.H. Bailey plc Annual Report & Financial Statements: 2013 
 
 
2 
Chairman's Statement 
 
 
Chairman's statement 
Your company in the year under review made a net loss after tax of - 0.2m.  Nonetheless, I am pleased to report 
further improvements in the group's underlying performance. Total income from continuing operations 
increased for a third consecutive year to  5.3m (2012:  4.3m), as has our gross profit and operating profit.    
 
The group continues to benefit from increasing levels of economic activity in Tanzania, part of which can be 
ascribed to ongoing natural resources discoveries in the region.  Our Tanzanian business accounted for some 
 2.6m (2012:  1.8m) of gross group income from continuing operations in the period under review. 
 
Our single remaining UK non-services business, Bailey Industrial Engineering, continues to benefit from the 
economic downturn in Europe as our clients have sought to repair machinery and equipment rather than invest 
in new capital equipment. While gross income again has increased over the previous year's, we have seen 
pressure on our margins but have remained profitable.  
 
Results 
The group's consolidated pre-tax loss before taxation for the year was - 0.2m, compared to profit in 2012 of 
 8.9m, which was due in large part to the profit on the part disposal of the group's Maltese assets.  In 2011, the 
loss was - 0.5m.  
 
We are pleased that our operating profit from continuing operations, which excludes exceptional items, 
investment activities and depreciation, has improved for a third consecutive year (2013:  320,000  2012: 
 64,000). 
 
Our EBITDA has improved from a loss of - 0.3m in the previous period to  0.8m in this period. In 2011, EBITDA 
was - 0.5m. 
2013  2012  2011 
Revenue from continuing operations     5.3m    4.3m    4.3m             
Gross profit from continuing operations     1.4m    1.2m    1.1m  
Operating profit from continuing operations   0.3m   64,000   40,000 
EBITDA        0.8m  (  0.3m)  (  0.5m) 
Pre-tax profit/(loss) before tax    (  0.2m)    8.9m  (  0.5m)  
 
The group's cash holdings have reduced to  4.6m (2012:  6.8m) reflecting an active investment programme 
during the period, which is largely reflected in the balance sheet (Note 13) as an increase of  4.2m in freehold 
and leasehold land and buildings during the period under review, including exchange differences (2013:  13.6m 
2012:  9.4m).  These cash holdings of  4.6m will continue to give us an ability to make strategic longer term 
acquisitions as well as allow us to weather any economic storms or downturns.    
 
The net loss per share (based on the weighted average number of shares) after tax was -2.76p (2012: 93.99p). 
 
Tanzania 
Total group income derived from our businesses in Tanzania increased again during the period under review 
(2013:  2.6m 2012:  1.8m), and represents 49% (2012: 41%) of total group income, testifying again to the 
significance of our businesses there.  Given our additional investment in income producing assets here this past 
year, we expect this percentage to increase further in the coming period. 
 
In the tourism sector, we continue to own and operate niche, high-end properties at The Oyster Bay Hotel, our 
hotel in Dar es Salaam, and Beho Beho, our safari camp in the Selous Game Reserve.  
 
Hospitality revenues in Tanzania continue to be lower than expected, due to the recovery in the high end tourist 
market being weaker than we had hoped, and because Mikumi Wildlife Camp was closed for refurbishment for 
the second half of the year under review.  Having increased the rack rates for our other properties, we were not 
surprised by the small overall reduction in revenue, with gross income falling by 11% to US$0.8m (2012:  C.H. Bailey plc Annual Report & Financial Statements: 2013 
 
 
3 
US$0.9m). Forward bookings for the current year suggest that we will experience a stronger recovery this 
season, with higher levels of income per person.  
 
I noted in my statement last year that we had begun the construction of the final building on our Oyster Bay 
Hotel site, which we call Phase III - The Oyster Bay Hotel Club & Spa.  The development, I believe, will 
consolidate our reputation locally for providing high end serviced accommodation and commercial offices and 
retail space.  The building will offer a mixed use of some 6,000m
2
, of serviced accommodation and commercial 
office space.  There will be some retail space, which will be an extension to the services provided by the Oyster 
Bay Hotel facilities.  
 
Our Oyster Bay Hotel shopping centre continues to be profitable.  With some 2,000m
2
 of serviced retail space, 
we achieved an average occupancy of 95% at the current market rates. This occupancy level reflects the churn 
of some tenants during the year, which has resulted in new retail businesses now operating in the centre. 
 
In June 2012, we announced the acquisition of approximately 24 acres of prime, undeveloped beach front 
property, 45 minutes south of Dar es Salaam.  I am pleased to confirm that during the year we have been able to 
acquire an additional 4 acres adjoining our plot on the beach, and some further land which provides a buffer and 
better access from the nearest public road. This increased acreage affords us a greater number of development 
options, which we will begin to consider once Phase III at the Oyster Bay Hotel has been completed and is open. 
 
Malta 
Gross income from hotel operations are reduced, due to the sale of part of the property. In 2011, gross turnover 
was down some 9% on the previous year to  517,000 (2012:  568,000).  This reduction, combined with a small 
increase in administrative expenses, resulted in an operating loss of - 124,000 (2012: - 34,000).   
 
We did receive during the period a long outstanding compensation payment of  116,000 from the Maltese 
Government.  This payment was the principal factor in turning the operating loss into a net profit after tax of 
 27,000 (2012:  8.5m). 
 
As announced previously, the purchaser of our Maltese property has, as per the contract agreed in 2011, paid a 
deposit of  400,000 for the sale of the balance of the property held by St. George's Bay Hotel Limited, which is 
scheduled for completion on the 30
th
 March 2015.   
 
The renovation of the heritage property overlooking the Grand Harbour that we purchased last year is nearing 
completion. The work and our presence in Valletta has led to further properties being offered to the company. 
We are considering, therefore, investing in additional properties of a similar high quality in Valletta, which will 
be the European Capital of Culture in 2018. These properties could provide serviced accommodation, office 
space and one particular property is being considered as a boutique hotel.  
 
The United Kingdom 
Bailey Industrial Engineering (BIE ) has had another good year, with gross income increasing by 14% to 
 2.0m (2012:  1.8m).  Although very difficult trading conditions for our clients in the UK, and in South Wales 
especially, have put pressure on our margins, the business remains profitable 2013:  37,000 (2012:  47,000).  
 
Given current market conditions, this is a very pleasing result and it reflects the commitment of the BIE board 
and the whole team in South Wales, which has now provided the group with a third consecutive year of profits. 
 
Board and senior management matters 
Rod Reynolds joined your board in June 2012 as a non-executive director and brings with him experience 
gained globally over many years in financial services and investment.  He chairs the Remuneration Committee 
and will also serve on the Audit & Risk Committee. He succeeds Sir William McAlpine as your senior 
independent director. 
 
There have been no others changes to the board for the period under review, but, during the year, we have taken 
steps to strengthen our subsidiaries' boards and senior management, particularly in respect of those concerned 
with our Tanzanian operations.    C.H. Bailey plc Annual Report & Financial Statements: 2013 
 
 
4 
 
A new Chief Operating Officer has been appointed In Tanzania, which will allow more time to look for further 
opportunities to drive the business forward in both East Africa and elsewhere. We will look for projects that are 
in in accordance with our strategy of enhancing the underlying value of assets already held and considering new 
opportunities that would strengthen the revenue stream and bottom line. 
 
Dividend 
In light of both the group's cash reserves and operating position, which we believe to be sustainable, we will be 
asking shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for their approval to pay a special dividend of 5p per share 
to Members on the share register as at 25 October 2013. The shares will become ex-dividend on 23 October 
2013. 
 
Outlook 
We expect further growth with greater income and profits in Tanzania in 2014, due principally to the opening of 
the Phase III development at the Oyster Bay Hotel. There are signs which appear to herald a more positive 
outlook for our hospitality division, but I must remain cautiously optimistic given the past 2 years' results and 
the continued fragility of the global economy.     
 
The board continues to believe that the natural resources discoveries in the region will continue to make 
prospects in Tanzania exciting for the group as we continue to provide services to many companies involved in 
the natural resources sector, and we are evaluating a number of investment opportunities, including those 
presented by our existing clients as they expand operations in the region.   
 
The on-going hospitality operations in Malta will continue either at breakeven or show a small loss. This loss 
should be considered in conjunction with the successful redevelopment of our heritage property and sale of the 
St. George's Bay Hotel site, which will impact on both the local and global business model for new ventures 
both on Malta and elsewhere. 
 
We believe that Bailey Industrial Engineering will continue to grow both its turnover and profits, although the 
challenges facing its customer base should not be ignored. Recent appointments hopefully will impact positively 
on the company, through a wider customer base with increased sales and productivity. 
 
We continue to consider investment in high quality assets in geographical areas in which we have long term 
experience or trusted business partners.  Our reputation as a niche, quality developer and operator providing 
excellent service to guests and customers is evidenced by strong interest in our new developments at the Oyster 
Bay Hotel and in Malta.    
 
I remain an eternal, passionate, yet cautious, optimist - and believe that the group's prospects in the short and 
long term are sustainable and exciting. We will continue to increase the focus of our investment project 
evaluation process to ensure we continue to enhance the existing value of the portfolio and the strength of its 
income stream. 
 
I take this opportunity to thank all our staff for their continued hard work, commitment and enthusiasm. 
 
 
Charles Bailey  
24 July 2013 
  