  
2 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2007 
Introduction  
I am delighted to report record pre-tax profits of 
 11.78 million for the financial year ended 31 August 
2007, compared to  5.1 million for the previous year. 
 
Since the disposal of our digital business in February 
2006, we have been able to concentrate virtually all 
our efforts on developing our toys and games 
portfolio.  This, together with our strategy of 
acquiring new product licences and designing and 
developing products in-house, has proven to be a 
major factor in the Group's growth. 
 
This creditable performance not only reflects this 
focus but shows that our products continue to meet 
the market's needs and consumer demand. 
 
Financials  
The 2006/7 financial year is our first financial year 
where we have been able to focus fully on our 
continuing business following the sale of our digital 
business, although the comparative figures shown 
include revenue and contribution from the historical 
digital operation. (Note 2 compares the continuing 
business). 
 
Turnover for Toys, Games and Gifts was  94.52 
million against  69.55 million last year, an increase of 
approximately 36 per cent (2006:  95.53 million, 
including digital sales of  25.98 million). 
 
Operating profit for the continuing business 
increased by approximately 74% to  12.06 million 
(2006:  6.91 million). 
 
Profit before tax rose approximately 130% to  11.78 
million (2006: 5.13 million). 
 
Basic earnings per share in the period were 17.93 
pence, up 115% from 8.36 pence achieved for the 
continuing business in the comparable period (2006: 
5.80 pence). 
 
Stocks at year end were  10.83 million (2006:  10.67 
million, including digital stocks). 
 
Cash at bank at the year end was  15.7 million, 
compared to  7.4 million at 31 August 2006. 
 
Review of 2006/7 
Through the team effort of our senior management, 
we entered the year with a determination to 
concentrate our efforts on developing the brands 
that we had in the business, whilst at the same time 
ensuring that our products got the distribution base 
they deserved. 
 
Our growth to date in sales and profits reflects an 
outstanding performance for the Group, especially as 
we continue to operate in a difficult period for 
retailers, both in the UK and across Europe. 
 
Our Doctor Who product line-up performed 
exceptionally well once again. As Master Toy licensee, 
we celebrated another phenomenal year, with over 3 
million Doctor Who action figures projected to be 
sold through calendar year 2007 compared to 1.7 
million for the previous year. 
 
It is also satisfying to note that we experienced strong 
double digit growth in many of our other brands, 
including Scooby Doo, Disney Princess, Peppa Pig, 
Gr8 Art, Bindeez, Dragonfly (from our Robotic 
range) and Gloe Bears. 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT   
 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2007 3 
Overall, the growth that we have achieved has 
enabled us to increase our UK market share by 
approximately 30%. 
 
During the year, we secured a number of new Master 
Toy licences, including: 
 
  Primeval 
An Impossible Pictures production for ITV, 
ProSieben and M6, is a science fiction drama, which 
has been renewed for a second series and Character 
will be producing an extensive line of exciting 
products that will include a Dragonfly Rex and 
Carnivorous Pterosaur. These will be available from 
this month and will be followed by a number of other 
action figures and creatures from series one and two 
in January 2008. 
 
  Dork Hunters From Outer Space 
The Pan-European licence covers all standard 
master toy  products, such as basic plush; feature 
plush; action figures; toy vehicles and accessories; 
playsets; activity, arts & crafts; interactive toys; board-
games; toy writing and school instruments and toy 
accessories, including lipstick and make-up.  We 
envisage a full European roll-out in late summer 2008 
and we see Dork Hunters from Outer Space as a 
strategic cornerstone for our extensive branding 
initiatives. 
 
  Postman Pat 
The range of products for the UK and Eire market 
include toys, playsets, plush and collectables.  
Character will begin developing new product lines for 
Postman Pat, with new products to coincide with the 
brand new TV series which airs on CBeebies and 
BBC Two in 2009.  Character plans to produce a 
comprehensive range at a new scale to that previously 
seen in the market, including characters from the 
classic and new series.  The range will be available in 
early 2009. 
 
Postman Pat is an iconic brand with an established 
heritage which has continually delighted pre-schoolers 
for over 25 years.  We believe that this licence will 
become an important brand within our portfolio and 
a Top-5 pre-school property. 
 
Revenues from these new licenses will commence 
making a contribution in the 2008/2009 financial 
years. 
 
Product Quality 
We have, since the outset, taken quality control and 
quality assurance as a high priority in our processes, 
whilst also continually improving our standards and 
procedures. 
 
Following the recent problems which have been 
highlighted in the press, we have further reviewed 
these processes and have increased the testing of our 
products. We are pleased to confirm that none of our 
products have experienced the well publicised 
problems of one of our competitors. 
 
The Group will continue to focus on delivering toys 
and related products that not only meet the demand 
of the consumer but also have been manufactured or 
sourced to the highest standards, thereby adhering to 
the Group's and UK and international bodies' strict 
guidelines. 
 
Dividend  
In-line with our progressive dividend policy and to 
further underpin the Board's confidence in the 
Group's portfolio of product which has already been 
reflected through this year's robust performance, the 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED  
4 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2007 
Directors are recommending an increased final 
dividend of 2.4 pence per share, which together with 
the interim dividend of 2.0 pence makes a total 
dividend for the year of 4.4 pence per share, a 33% 
increase (2006: 3.30 pence). 
 
Subject to approval by Shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 16 January 2008, the 
final dividend will be paid on 25 January 2008 to 
Shareholders on the Register as at 4 January 2008. 
The shares will go ex-dividend on 2 January 2008. 
 
The total dividend is covered four times by earnings. 
 
Share Buy-Backs  
As we have clearly laid out to Shareholders, part of 
the Group's stated objectives is to continue its focus 
on ways to further enhance shareholder value, both 
through our on-going plans to implement a 
progressive dividend policy and monitoring the 
position in the market with a view to continuing to 
buy-back shares for Treasury and cancellation, when 
considered appropriate. 
 
The Directors believe that the Group has used its 
current authority to buy-back shares in the market to 
great effect, and in the period under review, this alone 
has resulted in an increase of 17.3% to the earnings 
per share. 
 
Over a two-year period, we have purchased 
approximately 9.15 million ordinary shares of 5p each 
in the Company (Ordinary Shares ) at an average 
price of 86 pence per share.  The buy-back to date 
represents approximately 20.6% of the current issued 
share capital of the Company (excluding shares held 
in Treasury). Following the cancellation of these 
Ordinary Shares, the Company has 44,452,937 
Ordinary Shares in issue (excluding 1,000,000 
Ordinary Shares in the Company held in Treasury). 
 
Share buy-backs have been used effectively to date 
and will continue to be considered as an effective tool 
for the future. In this regard, the Board has the ability 
to put in place a line of credit specifically for this 
purpose. 
 
At the forthcoming AGM, Shareholders will be asked 
to approve a resolution to renew the Company's 
authority to repurchase Ordinary Shares in the 
Company, up to 25% of its issued share capital 
(excluding Ordinary Shares held in Treasury). 
 
If this Resolution is once again approved by 
Shareholders, the Directors will continue to monitor 
the market position and will, if appropriate, make 
further purchases of the Company's own Ordinary 
Shares over the next financial year. 
 
People  
On behalf of the Board and all our Shareholders, I 
would like to welcome all new staff who joined the 
Group during the year. 
 
It is also an appropriate time to recognise the hard 
work and dedication of everyone within the Group, 
without whom, we would not have been able to 
produce another successful set of results; on behalf of 
the Board and Shareholders I thank all our 
employees. 
 
Current Trading  
The Group is fortunate to have within its product 
portfolio a strong, innovative and appealing range of 
toys, gifts and games. We are greatly encouraged by 
the continued growth of our brands, the reaction by 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED