 Adonis Pouroulis
Non-Executive Chairman
04 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2011  
Chairman's statement
Over the last ten months the Company 
has worked hard to successfully position 
itself and ensure that it is fully prepared 
for the significant developments that the 
forthcoming year will bring. The team has 
advanced its technical work, identifying 
key areas within our prospect and lead 
inventory to further mature targets 
for drilling. The addition of two new 
international Joint Venture partners 
has not only affirmed the high potential 
of our blocks but also mitigated our 
risk and enabled us to evaluate further 
projects as we seek to develop our 
portfolio. This, combined with our strong 
financial position, stands us in good stead 
as we look to initiate our four to five well 
drilling campaign with the spudding of 
Tapit South (1811/5-1) on the Tapir South 
prospect in April of this year. 
Continued portfolio development
The Company has spent a total of 
US$108 million to date progressing our 
highly prospective acreage. Throughout 
the period, the portfolio has continued 
to grow with total gross mean un-risked 
prospective resources now estimated 
at 20.0 billion barrels with 15 prospects 
and 16 leads, 11 of which were identified 
in the Central Blocks following the 
reprocessing and reinterpretation of 
previous data sets. This is a significant 
value enhancement of our portfolio 
that has been achieved through the 
ongoing disciplined and systematic 
efforts of our technical team. 
Through additional geological and 
seismic work, the Company has been 
able to increase its portfolio as well 
as de-risk certain prospects such as 
Tapir South, now poised to be spud 
in April 2012, and to develop other well 
targets. The continued development 
and better understanding of our 
portfolio as well as the subsequent 
de-risking of our prospects will only 
improve further, following the processing 
and interpretation of the extensive 
3,500km  of seismic data acquired 
over our Central Blocks in February. 
These results are due to be announced 
at the end of 2012.
The world class quality of our assets 
and prospects was endorsed during the 
period under review through a successful 
fundraising in April 2011 which resulted 
in net cash received of US$140 million. 
At the same time the Company 
completed farm-in partnerships with 
PGS and BP in August and furthermore 
secured the approval from the Ministry 
of Mines and Energy Namibia for the 
First Renewal Phase of the Central Blocks 
and Southern Block 2714A where Chariot 
was able to retain 100% of its acreage. 
In addition to this, the election of 
Petrobras to take up operatorship 
and their commitment to an exploration 
well later this year in Block 2714A 
demonstrates their confidence in 
our prospective resources.
Successful farm-out agreements
With the introduction of a second 
major and subsequent support from 
one of the world's leading seismic 
companies, Chariot witnessed an 
increase in confidence and interest 
not only in the potential of its highly 
prospective acreage but also in firmly 
placing Namibia as a new frontier 
region for major oil exploration.
The Company now has two international 
oil majors farmed into Block 2714A (BP 
holds 45% of the block, Petrobras 30% 
and Chariot 25%), a significant affirmation 
of the potential within our acreage. 
All partners have agreed on the well 
location of the first exploration well, 
Kabeljou (2714/6-1), on the Nimrod 
prospect and Petrobras is currently 
tendering for a drilling rig. Nimrod is 
a very large structural prospect, some 
500km  in area, which is estimated 
to contain 4.9 billion barrels of gross 
un-risked mean prospective resources. 
PGS' 10% farm-in into the Central Blocks 
has funded 50% of the 3,500km  3D 
seismic campaign that commenced 
in December 2011 and completed in 
Highlights
k  Continued progress on prospect 
and lead inventory, further matured 
targets for drilling
k  3,500km  3D seismic carried out on 
Central Blocks
k  Addition of two new international 
joint venture partners - endorsement 
of quality and potential of acreage
k  Fundraising during and post period 
end places Company in strong 
position to achieve its objectives
k  New additions to Board and 
Management further bolster 
technical and commercial team  The Company is in a position of strength, 
with a strong balance sheet, high quality 
joint venture partnerships and a good 
understanding of the hydrocarbon 
potential offshore Namibia. 
Company Overview
05 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2011  
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Overview
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2011
February 2012. The survey was designed 
to cover as many of the recently identified 
high graded leads as possible, with 
the intention of further expanding the 
prospect and lead inventory, mitigating 
risk and maturing further targets for 
drilling. The data acquired is considered 
to be of excellent quality and is currently 
being processed. The Company looks 
forward to providing a resource update 
once interpretation is complete. This 
will then be followed up by a further 
Competent Person's Report.
Whilst the addition of these farm-in 
partners is a significant endorsement 
of Chariot's acreage, it also provides 
the Company with further funds to 
concentrate on developing its portfolio 
and to focus on its longer term 
drilling campaign.
Financial review 
The Group remains debt free and as at 
31 December 2011 it held cash balances 
of US$129.0 million (US$9.2 million as 
at 28 February 2011). The successful 
fundraising in April 2011, whereby 
US$140 million (net) was raised, places 
Chariot in a very strong position to 
achieve its current strategic objectives 
and the Company's cash position 
was further strengthened with a 
placing announced post period end, 
in March 2012, for gross proceeds 
of approximately US$48.7 million. 
The BP farm-out on Block 2714A and 
the PGS farm-out on the Central Blocks 
have had a significantly positive impact 
on the Group's cash resources. In terms 
of Block 2714A, BP has paid a significant 
majority of Chariot's back costs in relation 
to the licence and will also meet Chariot's 
obligations in relation to the drilling of 
the first well on the block.
The PGS farm-out has also resulted in 
significant cost savings for the Group 
in terms of the 3D seismic acquisition 
programme, with PGS funding 50% 
of the cost of the programme. 
During the ten month period to 
31 December 2011 the Company 
incurred losses of US$9.2 million 
(Year to 28 February 2011: US$7.3 million) 
with other administrative expenses 
accounting for US$5.6 million (Year to 
28 February 2011: US$5.0 million), of 
this loss. Excluding foreign exchange 
losses of US$2.1 million and share based 
payments of US$2.4 million, the loss 
for the period reduces to US$4.7 million 
(Year to 28 February 2011: US$4.9 million). 
The US$140 million funds raised in 
April 2011 were received in Sterling 
and the majority was converted into 
US Dollars at the time of the fundraising. 
However, the Group continues to hold 
Sterling balances to cover its foreseeable 
costs in that currency and, due to the 
strengthening of Sterling against the 
US Dollar during the period under review, 
the loss for the period includes the 
foreign exchange loss of US$2.1 million 
(Year to 28 February 2011: gain of 
US$15,000) discussed above.
Capitalised exploration costs for the ten 
month period ended 31 December 2011 
amounted to US$15.3 million (Year to 
28 February 2011: US$4.1 million), a large 
portion of which related to the 3,500km  
3D seismic acquisition programme with 
PGS which was carried out on the Central 
Blocks and which was completed in 
February 2012. The balance of the 
material exploration expenditure incurred 
in the period relates to the preparation 
and planning for the Company's 
upcoming drilling campaign.
The Group changed its accounting 
reference date from 28 February to 
31 December to ensure that its reporting 
date is more aligned with its industry 
peer group. 
Board of Directors and 
management changes
We were pleased to welcome 
Larry Bottomley to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in September. 
Larry has been working in the oil 
and gas industry for over 30 years 
and has a wealth of experience in 
frontier exploration and a significant 
understanding of the hydrocarbon 
potential of Namibia. 
I would also like to take this opportunity 
to welcome Robert Mwanachilenga, 
who joined us post period end in our 
Namibian office as Country Manager. 
Robert is a Petroleum Engineer with 
20 years of international experience in 
the oil and gas industry. Prior to joining 
Chariot he worked for the National 
Petroleum Corporation of Namibia 
(NAMCOR), as Acting Managing 
Director, having also held positions in 
the Company as Engineering Manager 
and Development Engineer. We very 
much look forward to working with 
Robert, whose in-depth knowledge 
of Namibia and industry experience 
will be instrumental as we continue 
to develop our Namibian assets.
Conclusion 
The period under review has seen the 
Company prepare itself for an extensive 
drilling campaign offshore Namibia. 
The Company is in a position of 
strength, with a strong balance sheet, 
high quality Joint Venture partnerships 
and a good understanding of the 
technical merits of the hydrocarbon 
potential of the country. I would like to 
thank all staff and contractors for their 
efforts in achieving this and thank the 
Ministry of Mines and Energy Namibia 
and the Government of Namibia for 
their continued support throughout. 
Should the results of our exploration 
wells be positive, Chariot looks forward 
to becoming an integral part of the 
economic growth of Namibia that will 
inevitably follow.
Adonis Pouroulis
Chairman 
20 March 2012