 Business  
REvIEW
CHair Man's  
state Ment
It is with pleasure that I report on the Company's year-end 
results, my first as Chairman, the position of which I was 
delighted to accept in December 2012. 
 
The past year was an operational one for Chariot and we fulfilled a number of our 
strategic and exploration objectives. We completed the acquisition, processing and 
interpretation of our 3,500km  seismic programme in the Central area of Namibia; 
participated in two wells offshore Namibia; secured significant acreage positions in two 
new regions of interest; and completed the acquisition of a 3,500km  survey offshore 
Mauritania. Whilst the results of the Namibian drilling campaign were disappointing, this 
activity has enabled us to improve our understanding of the petroleum geology within 
Namibia and this will inform our forward programme. We have also been able to 
position ourselves as an early entrant into areas which we believe have the potential  
for giant opportunities. 
Frontier Explorer - Namibia
Chariot has been at the forefront of exploration activity offshore Namibia. Only 1 1 
exploration wells have been drilled offshore Namibia to date, just four of which were in 
deep water on a coastline over 1,000km in length. In April to mid-May 2012, the Company 
successfully operated, safely and within budget, the Tapir South deep water well in its 
Northern Area, which reflected positively on the capability of the Chariot team. Following 
the completion of BP's farm-in to Southern Block 2714A, Chariot participated in a second 
well, Kabeljou-1, which was drilled in late July to early September. Whilst the wells were 
unsuccessful and plugged and abandoned, the information and knowledge we have now 
gained provides significant insight to the additional prospectivity within our acreage.
Leading up to and concurrent with drilling, Chariot acquired, processed and interpreted 
substantial amounts of seismic data. As a result, Chariot now holds the most extensive deep 
water well database and what we believe to be the second largest 3D seismic database in the 
country which is invaluable to the continued development of our Namibian portfolio.
Philip Loader, Chairman of Chariot Oil & Gas Limited, 
discusses Chariot's operational progress last year, 
the steps made in broadening the portfolio and the 
Company's corporate governance.
Extensive deep water 
well and seismic database 
offshore n amibia
Accessed significant acreage 
positions in underexplored 
regions with proven 
petroleum systems
Continuous pipeline of 
activity over coming years
06
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Broadening the portfolio and managing risk
In addition to this exploration activity, we have also broadened and diversified our 
portfolio through the acquisition of Block C19 offshore Mauritania and the Loukos, 
Casablanca/Safi and Rabat Deep licences offshore Morocco. 
We have continued to build on our ability to identify underexplored, highly prospective 
regions and access significant acreage positions within these areas prior to other 
competitors and in advance of incurring high costs of entry and high premium agreements. 
Mauritania and Morocco are of specific interest to Chariot as they are both relatively 
immature from an exploration perspective but have proven petroleum systems. This is 
where we see the greatest opportunity for transformational growth. 
The entry and participation of several major oil companies within both Mauritania 
and Morocco in recent months highlights Chariot's capacity to successfully execute 
this component of its strategy. The increased industry interest endorses both regions 
as highly prospective whilst indicating an appetite for increasing exploration activity, 
the results of which will continue to enhance the geological understanding of these 
basins  and also our assets. 
These acquisitions also contribute to balancing the risk profile of Chariot's portfolio. 
Namibia is a frontier hydrocarbon province with very early stage exploration; Morocco 
is an emerging hydrocarbon province, however our acreage is located adjacent to historic 
oil production and gas condensate discoveries, and in Mauritania we have moved into an 
area which is a proven hydrocarbon province with current production. We also now have 
a range of exploration maturity within our asset base and have constructed a continuous 
pipeline of activity in the coming years.
regional relationships
Chariot considers its working relationships to be of utmost importance and key 
to long term success. The Company has developed and continues to maintain close 
working relationships with the Governments and Ministries in all the countries in which 
we operate and it is a pleasure to work alongside them. This cooperation ensures our 
operations can be carried out smoothly and I would like to thank the Governments 
and Ministry of Mines and Energy of Namibia, Mauritania and Morocco, as well as the 
State Oil Companies NAMCOR, SMH and ONYHM for their continued support which 
is invaluable to Chariot's progress.
16
To view our  
Mauritanian acquisition 
18
To view our  
Moroccan acquisition 
12
Read our  
Operations overview
t his past year has seen the Company 
take some bold steps forward which 
have served to further develop our 
asset base on a number of levels.  
We now have a strong foothold 
in three very interesting geological 
provinces for oil and gas exploration 
and have created a portfolio that 
contains a variety of regional plays.
 Hig Hl ig H t s
  Fulfilled a number of strategic and 
exploration objectives throughout  
the year
  Hold significant acreage positions in 
areas that we believe have the potential 
for giant opportunities
  Strong working relationships with the 
Governments and Ministries in the 
countries in which we operate
  Independent Corporate Governance 
committee formed to continue 
to ensure clarity and transparency 
in decision making
  Fully funded to carry out our stated 
work programme through 2013 and 
all licence commitments are funded 
through 2014
07
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business  
REvIEW
CHair Man's st a te Ment  
Continue D
governance
There were a number of changes to our Board in December 2012 with Larry Bottomley 
appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, myself as Non-Executive Chairman 
and Adonis Pouroulis moving to Non-Executive Director. Paul Welch and James Burgess 
stepped down from the Board, Heindrich Ndume became a Non-Executive Director 
and we welcomed Mark Reid to the Board as Chief Financial Officer. Alongside this 
re-organisation, an independent Corporate Governance Committee was created which 
consists of the Independent Directors and is chaired by George Canjar who is now 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The Company, where practicable, 
is dedicated to ensuring that it maintains the strictest corporate governance standards and 
this new committee allows for a healthy combination of key experience and independence 
necessary to continue to ensure clarity and transparency in all decision making.
Financial review 
The Group is debt free and held cash balances of US$68.3m at 31 December 2012 
(31 December 2011: US$129.0m).
The Group incurred a loss of US$88.6m for the year ended 31 December 2012 
(ten months ended 31 December 2011: US$9.2m) which included an impairment charge 
of US$80.8m for the Tapir South well.
Share based payments charges of US$1.8m for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 
lower than the US$2.4m for the ten months ended 31 December 2011 primarily due 
to fewer unvested share awards being in existence during the year.
Other administrative expenses at US$7.5m for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 
higher than the US$5.6m for the ten months ended 31 December 2011 primarily due to 
a shorter accounting period to 31 December 2011 and organisational restructuring costs 
incurred during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Finance income for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprises interest on cash 
balances of US$0.9m (ten months ended 31 December 2011: US$0.9m) and exchange 
gains on foreign currency cash balances of US$0.7m (ten months ended 31 December 
2011: US$Nil). In the ten months ended 31 December 2011 an exchange loss on foreign 
currency cash balances of US$2.1m was included in finance expense. 
Capitalised exploration costs in the year of US$128.6m (31 December 201 1: US$15.4m) were 
funded by existing cash, US$48.7m gross share placing proceeds received in March 2012, 
the receipt of the BP farm-out cash relating to back costs and working capital movements.
Chariot is fully funded to carry out our stated work programme through to the end 
of 2013 and all contractual commitments in all of our licences are funded through to 2014. 
Conclusion 
This past year has seen the Company take some bold steps forward which have served 
to further develop our asset base on a number of levels. We now have a strong foothold 
in three very interesting geological provinces for oil and gas exploration and have created 
a portfolio that contains a variety of regional plays; exploration success in any of these 
regions has the potential to deliver transformational value to the stakeholders in Chariot. 
We look forward to continuing our work and taking these assets through the value curve. 
Philip Loader 
Chairman
19 March 2013
Boar D
MeMBers
PHiliP loaDer 
Non-Executive Chairman
larr Y BottoMleY 
Chief Executive Officer 
Boar D ex Pertise 
BREAKDOWN
Exploration
Oil and Gas
Finance
Africa
5/7
5/7
4/7
4/7
28
For more information on  
our Corporate Governance
MarK reiD 
Chief Financial Officer
aDonis Pouroulis 
Non-Executive Director
george C anJar 
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
roBert sinClair 
Non-Executive Director
HeinDriCH nDuMe 
Non-Executive Director
08
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012