 The financial results reflect continuing
difficult conditions for many of our
businesses - in particular a third successive
year of manufacturing recession. These
have hampered management efforts to
counteract rising costs and weak volumes. 
Even so, we have maintained slightly
higher margins than most UK-based
competitors in mainland Europe and our 
UK margins are in line with the industry
average.
We are still enhancing the quality of the
business. The quality of our customer base
continues to improve as we eliminate
unprofitable contracts. And our contract
renewal rate of over 85% confirms 
our customers' confidence in our service.
Overview
The Food and Consumer businesses
proved resilient in mainland Europe but 
in the UK delays in opening a new facility
reduced profitability. This sector remains
under severe pricing pressure.
Our Industrial operations' shared-user
networks are particularly sensitive to
declining volumes. Despite this, our French
business maintained its profits and margins.
In the UK after a poor first half, profitability
has been improving following the action we
have taken, but recovery has been slower
than anticipated, held back by the poor
economic climate.
In 2002 we said we would restore our
Spanish and German Industrial businesses
to profitability within two years, through
aggressive restructuring. Our progress 
in Spain has been good and we reached 
a breakeven run rate by the year end.
Despite our actions the German business
remained loss-making, hampered by the
declining economy, and it was sold to the
management in May 2003. This setback will
not deflect us from achieving our European
strategic goals over the longer term.
On 15 May the board announced that 
it had received an unsolicited preliminary
expression of interest from a financial
buyer regarding a possible offer for the
company. Since then we have confirmed
that we are no longer in such discussions
with any parties.
Group results
Total turnover, including our share from
joint ventures, increased 5.0% to  877.4m.
The Group is reporting a pre-tax loss of
 5.5m after exceptional costs of  21.4m
and goodwill amortisation. Earnings per
share fell from a restated 0.71p in the
previous year to a loss per share of 3.09p.
Underlying profit - before taxation,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items - declined 30.4% to  20.1m. 
On the same basis, earnings per share 
fell by 26.9% from 7.78p to 5.69p.
Margins slipped to 2.9% from 4.2%:
although much lower than three years ago,
they are still in line with the industry
average in the UK. 
The Group incurred exceptional costs of
 21.4m in the year. This was principally
the part loss on disposal of the German
industrial business totalling  9.6m and the
 5.2m cost of restructuring our operations.
There will be a further exceptional charge
in respect of the German business of
approximately  10m in the new financial
year following completion of the sale.
Jonathan Fry Chairman
Chairman's statement
Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2003 2 merchandise warehouses. And our unique
new COMET system, developed in-house
for controlling loose equipment in the
supply chain, was a key factor in winning
a major contract with Asda in June 2002
and more recently with Safeway, which
will use COMET at all its traywash sites.
In Europe our leading position in Benelux
frozen food distribution was strengthened
by a significant expansion of contracts
with both Laurus and Albert Heijn.
Strategy
Restructuring
In December 2002 we outlined a five-point
action plan to increase the profitability 
of our UK Industrial business. However,
the profit improvement resulting from this
plan has been held back by the decline 
in UK manufacturing output, which fell 
a further 4% during 2002. In February
2003 we announced the restructuring of
the UK Food, Consumer and Industrial
businesses into a single division to
optimise our transport and warehousing
expertise and to free our Support Services
business to develop separately in Europe.
The process of integrating the two
divisions is continuing and we are
confident that it will result in a more
focused and competitive business.
Our restructuring in Spain is working
well. We have exited unprofitable business,
while IT enhancements have further
boosted growth in the pallet network.
The enlarged sales team is successfully
building the customer base in new areas
and in the automotive aftermarket sector,
diluting our exposure to the more cyclical
automotive original equipment market. 
Sale of German business
Our decision to sell the German business
followed disappointing progress with
efforts - hampered by Germany's
employment law and weak economy - to
cut it back to a profitable core. Germany
is Europe's largest logistics market and 
a strategically important gateway to most
of the new EU member states in Eastern
Europe; we now plan to address these
markets through joint ventures and
alliances, a route which has proven very
successful elsewhere in the organisation. 
People
We thank our staff at all levels for their
contribution in a difficult year. 
Building a core team of competent
management is critical to keeping pace
with ever more agile and sophisticated
customers. Despite current stringencies
we maintained expenditure on training
and also appointed 25 graduate trainees. 
Turning to the board composition, I have
now completed two three-year terms as
your Chairman and a change at the top 
is appropriate. We are fortunate to have
an excellent successor in Dr David Fish.
David joined the board last autumn as 
a non-executive director after a long and
distinguished career with Mars Inc - the
global snack food, food and pet care
group. He has already made a substantial
contribution to our affairs and the board is
unanimous in electing him as my successor.
He will take over on 1 October 2003. 
Peter Cawdron has agreed to take on 
the role of senior independent director
and a further non-executive director will
be recruited.
Current trading and outlook
It will take time to rebuild shareholder
value but the sale of the German operation
is a substantial step forward. We will
continue to service this market through
an alliance with our former business and
additional partnerships or joint ventures.
Food and Consumer profits were hit last
year by disruption during the changeover
to the new cold store at Easton but 
will benefit now that the facility is fully
operational. Competition is likely to
remain intense, with resulting pricing
pressures, but in mainland Europe the
division is proving resilient.
Our UK Industrial networks will stay
under pressure while manufacturing
remains in recession; but the action we
have already taken is raising network
profitability and they are also well placed
to take advantage of any economic upturn.
We firmly believe we can restore historic
levels of profitability in Spain. 
Overall, the company is in better
competitive shape than a year ago, with 
a good new business pipeline. Tough
trading conditions are set to persist and,
with rising pension costs, will constrain
profits this year. We are confident that 
we are taking the right actions to weather
current market conditions and we expect
to make progress this year.
Jonathan Fry
Chairman
Capital cash expenditure was  40.9m,
mainly on new vehicles and construction
of cold stores at Easton and Bedworth 
in the UK. We expect to reduce capital
expenditure in the new financial year,
thereby improving cash generation. 
Net debt rose slightly to  133.3m.
Cashflow remains strong and the  20.6m
net inflow of cash before use of liquid
resources, financing, dividends and
acquisitions and disposals resulted from
good control of working capital and 
asset sales.
We have fully adopted FRS 17 Retirement
Benefits, restating the prior-period
accounts accordingly. A formal actuarial
review of the pension scheme was carried
out at 31 December 2001 and updated 
at 31 March 2003. The falling stock
market resulted in a pension deficit of
 64.5m after deferred taxation, compared
with a deficit of  9.6m in the previous
year. This will significantly impact our
pension costs in the new financial year.
To improve our capital structure we began
a share repurchase programme, buying
and cancelling 1.2m shares during the
year at a cost of  0.7m.
Dividend
The board has recommended a final
dividend of 1.0p, making a total of 3.65p
for the year. This level of total dividend
will form a sustainable base for dividends
in future years. In the medium term the
board intends to rebuild dividend cover 
to two times earnings before exceptional
costs and goodwill amortisation. The
dividend will be paid on 12 August 2003
to shareholders on the register at 18 July.
New business
Despite the conditions in the industrial
sector we have been making good
business wins. We won several large 
UK contracts, notably with Smurfit and
Goodyear/Dunlop, where our work won
us the 2002 European Supply Chain
Excellence Award. In total we won new UK
industrial contracts worth an annualised
 30m of revenue, partially offset by our
managed exit from underperforming
contracts. Our Industrial division in
France had a good year for new business
including wins with Valeo and Univar 
and a major new contract with Michelin;
in Spain we signed new business with
Renault Slovenia and Volvo Truck, and
entered new sectors such as ceramics.
Our UK Food and Consumer business
renewed a five-year contract with 
Marks & Spencer for three general
Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2003 3