 Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2005 10
Chairman's
statement
In the past year we have made good progress in stabilising the
business and positioning it for sustainable sales and profit growth.
The task is challenging but there is a great deal to play for. The
logistics market is well established, very large and growing strongly
across Europe. Yet it remains highly fragmented, Europe's top ten
contract logistics companies have less than half of the market
between them.
Christian Salvesen has sufficient scale and resources to prosper 
in this environment. With nearly half of our sales on the Continent
we have good coverage across Europe, which puts us among the
leaders in serving customers with international requirements. And
we have strong market positions in a number of business sectors.
These give us firm foundations on which to build future growth.
The challenge is that our markets are highly competitive and
margins have been squeezed by years of pressure on pricing. 
Our response has been twofold.
Firstly, we are focusing on top-line growth, because in a low-margin
environment we need to maximise the utilisation of our assets. To
do this we have been investing more funds and management
attention in achieving better targeted, relationship-based selling -
as well as working harder to enhance our service to existing
customers. This approach is beginning to pay off: in the past year
we have attracted 40% more new business and lost 20% less than
in the previous year. We expect to see the major benefit this year -
the past year's sales decline essentially results from the rollover of
lost contracts and a weak pipeline from the previous year.
Secondly, we have been striving to achieve a more efficient 
cost structure without compromising our well deserved reputation
for excellent operational performance. This should provide an
opportunity to boost our margins as we drive higher volumes
through our asset base. Over the past year we have made solid
progress in improving productivity in many areas of our business
but there is still some way to go.
Financial performance
Profit after tax almost doubled to  6.7m. Earnings per share
increased by 86% from 1.36p to 2.53p. Underlying profit (before
tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) was virtually
unchanged at  17.0m. Exceptional items more than halved to
 3.4m, and related mainly to the closure of a site in the
Netherlands, settling a dispute with a former customer and the
replacement of our Chief Executive.
Total turnover, including our share of joint ventures, decreased 5%
to  806m. Underlying sales (at constant exchange rates) fell by 4%,
reflecting a decline of 6% in the UK and 2% in mainland Europe.
Cashflow remained healthy, with a  27m net inflow before use 
of liquid resources, financing, dividends, and acquisitions and
disposals. This was achieved despite a sharp reduction in asset
sales to  6m and slightly increased capital expenditure of  23m. 
Strong positive cash generation enabled us to cut net debt by a
further  13m to  96m at the end of the period, compared with
some  133m two years earlier.
David Fish
Chairman
Salvesen is now heading in the right
direction. It is on track to become more
customer focused, efficient and innovative. Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2005 11
+86%
Earnings per share increased from 
1.36p to 2.53p.
+ 100m
Contract wins grew 40% to  100m.We
increased customer retention and doubled 
the year-end pipeline.
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 2.45p per share,
making an unchanged total of 3.65p for the year. This dividend
will be fully covered by net profit before goodwill - the first time
since 2001. The board continues to believe that this is a
sustainable base level for the future.
The final dividend will be paid on 30 August to shareholders 
on the register at 5 August. 
Developing the business
A year ago we set out to enhance both sales and productivity, 
with the aim of achieving a virtuous circle. Increasing productivity
will keep us competitive in the marketplace, funding more focused
sales and marketing initiatives and supporting development of
innovative solutions. In turn, driving increased sales through our
assets will further increase productivity.
On the sales side we have made a good start. Over the year we
won new contracts with an annual value of some  100m, and we
will feel the full benefit of these during the current financial year.
We also increased our renewal rate for existing contracts - evidence
of our success in maintaining high standards of customer service. 
We have also greatly strengthened the pipeline of opportunities
where we see a good chance of success. Over the year this more
than doubled - although we recognise that converting these
opportunities to contracts can take a considerable time.
Meanwhile, we continue to expand our existing customer
relationships - for example, with Tesco we have won additional
logistics business and developed a highly successful new range 
of frozen vegetables. For Unilever we have taken over the entire 
ice cream and frozen foods supply chain in Belgium. And our joint
venture with Danone continues to expand in Spain and Portugal.
We are also transferring proven expertise from one market 
to another - as our Support Services business has done by
transferring its tray management capability and expertise from 
UK supermarkets to the auto and bakery sectors and into France
for Carrefour and Spain for Asda.
We are also using our assets in a more co-ordinated way, to 
meet customer needs. For example, we are linking our shared-user
networks across borders to provide guaranteed on-time deliveries
internationally, with a full online consignment track and trace
facility. The new service, Salvesen International, initially links 
our UK and French industrial networks.
Our drive to improve productivity has made progress but still has
some way to go. It requires significant investment in our people to
support them with the right training, tools and systems, and this
will take time. Here, too, we can benefit from working in a more
co-ordinated way. For example, all our businesses have been co-
operating to identify and adopt best practice in fuel management,
infrastructure development and fleet renewal, as part of the drive
to become a more cost-efficient organisation.
Operational highlights
Our mainland European operations continued to perform well -
and for the first time contributed over half of our operating profit
before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
UK operating profit, before goodwill and exceptional items, fell
 4.5m to  11.1m on sales that were down by 6%. After including
the exceptional charge of  1.1m related to the customer settlement,
operating profit was  10.0m. Key factors were the loss of our
House of Fraser contract and renewal of our Marks & Spencer
general merchandise contract at a lower margin, both at the end of
the previous year - together with poor growing conditions for our
vegetable processing business, which cut the expected harvest by
25%. These changes are now behind us.
On the Continent, operating profit before goodwill and
exceptional items remained essentially flat at  12.2m. After the
exceptional charge of  1.2m related to the site closure and
goodwill amortisation of  4.2m, operating profit was  6.8m This
reflected efficient cost management and improving quality of
business in a year when underlying sales fell by 2%. Our French
Industrial business delivered strong profit growth and the Iberian
Industrial business continues to recover well. By contrast, the Food
and Consumer operations suffered from the impact of a large
contract loss in the previous year and pricing pressure on contract
renewals.
People
In July 2004 we welcomed Lawrence Christensen to the board as 
a non-executive director. Lawrence has exceptional experience in
both retailing and logistics. He had previously been for some years
a main board director of Safeway, where he had responsibility for
the supply chain as Group Operations Director. 
In May 2005 we welcomed back Stewart Oades as our new 
Chief Executive. Stewart joins us from Exel, where he has been 
a management board member and Chief Executive of Contract
Logistics for the UK and Ireland. He has also had wider
responsibility for retail, consumer and industrial logistics in Europe,
the Middle East and Africa and for the retail sector worldwide.
Stewart is already familiar with Salvesen - he led our food logistics
operations from 1993 to 1996. We are delighted to have someone
of such high standing in the industry to lead our management
team, which is significantly strengthened by his appointment.
Stewart's arrival enabled me to return to my previous role as 
non-executive Chairman after almost a year in an executive
capacity. During this time I have received enormous support from
people throughout the business, at every level. I would like to
thank everyone for their understanding, energy and active support
in stabilising the business. There is a great will to succeed in
Salvesen, which I am sure will sustain our continuing progress. 
Outlook
Salvesen is now heading in the right direction. Our interim 
strategy has been to reinvigorate the business and start the return
to top-line growth. The new business pipeline is fuller than it has
been for some years. With a stronger management team now in
place, we can begin to address the future with more confidence. 
However, that confidence must be tempered with caution. Our
markets are growing well but will remain fiercely competitive.
Salvesen remains on track to become more customer focused,
efficient and innovative. Combined with our strong operational
performance, this will enable us to deliver increasing value to
customers.
Our aim is to capitalise on the positive work that has been
completed over the past 12 months and we look forward to steady,
moderate improvement across all areas of the business. 