 Chairman's Statement
02 Compact Power Holdings plc
There will be much more local generation,
in part from medium/small community 
power plant, fuelled by locally grown
biomass, from locally generated waste, 
from local wind sources or possibly from
local wave and tidal generators. 
DTI (2003) Government White Paper.
Introduction
Steady progress has been made this financial year in projects
and in improvements in operating performance at the existing
plant in Avonmouth. Compact Power is now well established in
the medical and hazardous waste disposal market and is
regarded as a leading advanced thermal conversion technology.
There is increasing recognition of the renewable energy potential
of the technology as a producer of fuel gas, carbon char and
usable ash from a wide range of wastes and biomass. 
Financial review
The consolidated operating loss was in line with market
expectations at  1.6 million, and lower than the reported loss
before exceptional items in 2004 of  2.6 million, as a result of
higher revenues and reductions in development costs and
administrative expenditure. Revenues for the year increased 
by 260% to  1,506,000 (2004:  580,000). The increase was
principally due to increases in gate fees and to the new
sterilisation plant which became operational at the beginning 
of the year. 
As expected, development expenditure dropped to  24,000
(2004:  246,000) as the technology has been operating
commercially in the clinical waste market very successfully. There
will be a requirement for future development expenditure as we
continue to focus on operational improvements at the existing
plant and explore ways in which the technology can be adapted
to exploit different markets.
The net cash outflow from operating activities reduced by 40% 
to  1.4 million (2004:  2.3 million) as a result of the reduction in 
the pre exceptional operating loss. During the year the Group
drew down the sum of  150,000 from a loan facility of  500,000
provided by Cooper Holdings Limited to assist the Group with 
its working capital requirements. Since the year end a further
balance of  350,000 has been drawn down and the facility
increased to  600,000 to cover a further  100,000 advanced 
to the Company by Cooper Holdings. At the year-end, cash
balances stood at  104,000.
At 27 September 2005 the Group's cash balances remain tight
and the Company continues to rely on support from its major
shareholder, Cooper Holdings Limited, to meet its obligations. 
To meet the short-term working capital requirements the Directors
also intend to raise funds by way of a cash placing under the
Company's existing authorities. Potential investors have been
identified and terms are being discussed.
Medium term working capital requirements of the Group are
expected to be met from the Avonmouth project. The plant will be
owned by a limited liability partnership which will contract with
Compact Power for construction of the plant and will enter into 
an operation and maintenance agreement with Compact Power 
to operate and maintain the plant for an annual fee. DEFRA has
indicated that, subject to agreement on detailed terms, it will
support the project under the Government's New Technologies
Demonstration Programme (NTDP ) with the purchase of
services related to the project for up to  5 million. This new
project will provide Compact Power with enough working capital
to complete construction of the plant. I hope to be in a position 
to make an announcement in the next few weeks.
Dividend
The Company does not expect to pay dividends for the
foreseeable future therefore no dividend is recommended by 
the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Progress
In the last financial year Compact Power has continued to
establish its technology in the sector as a leading advanced
thermal conversion technology. 
In the clinical waste market Compact Power is now processing
about 2% of the national clinical waste arisings and has
established trading relationships with most of the waste
management companies in the sector. Gate fees have continued
to increase and the existing plant has made a profit before
interest, depreciation and tax consistently since October 2004.
In the municipal waste market there are the clearest signs that the
market is ready to adopt thermal technologies in future strategies
as one of the ways of dealing with the ever growing volumes of
waste and assisting local authorities to meet their obligations to
divert biodegradable municipal waste from landfill. Compact
Power's strategy of working with the other technologies that are
relevant to an integrated waste management approach is
attracting a significant number of expressions of interest but
clearly the NTDP is going to be influential in relation to the final
decision of many authorities.
Avonmouth MT2 plant, view of oxidiser chamber Chairman's Statement continued
The new Avonmouth plant will be a flagship project,
demonstrating how Compact Power can optimise conversion 
of waste to energy and supply heat and power meeting the
Government's Quality CHP criteria. The funding is likely to be
through a limited liability partnership which will own the plant,
leaving Compact Power with the profit on the plant sale and with
ongoing fees from operating and maintaining the plant.
Progress on the project which Devon County Council has
proposed, which DEFRA had previously selected for NTDP
support, remains conditional on a number of factors including
planning permission. 
At Dumfries the Company has exercised its option to acquire a
long-term lease of this prime site which has planning consent.
Although the municipal waste contractor has for the time being
suspended negotiations to supply waste to the plant, Compact
Power is now developing a project which does not rely on
municipal waste.
The Wrexham project is unlikely to proceed in the immediate
future, but the new lead contractor has confirmed that it is
reassessing the project and the Compact Power proposal
remains on the table. 
Outside the UK several municipal waste projects have reached
advanced stages of development and we are expecting that
construction will begin on more than one project during 2006. In
each case Compact Power will license the technology to a local
strategic partner to enable the plant to be constructed overseas
and will earn fees for technology support during construction 
and ongoing operation and maintenance. 
In connection with industrial and agricultural applications,
intensive energy users are under continuing pressure from costs
of energy and waste disposal, and there are also concerns about
security of energy supply. Embedded waste to energy facilities
are therefore of growing interest and we are having positive
discussions with potential users in various industrial sectors,
including cement manufacturers. We remain positive about the
potential for significant applications of the technology over the
next few years.
The small-scale plant being built with QinetiQ for use in Royal
Navy ships is now complete and commissioning trials are under
way. It is anticipated that if the land based trials are successful
this plant will be installed in HMS Ocean in 2006. Interest has
already been expressed in developing this product for land-
based military front line use and the Company will be making
arrangements to market this product in other suitable marine 
and land-based applications.
Finally, although our focus to date has been largely driven by the
economics of waste processing we have been encouraged by
the recent recognition of the significant contribution that biomass
can make to renewable energy supply if the potential of the whole
spectrum of organic wastes is taken into account. A recent report
concluded that by 2020 up to 21% of the total energy demand of
the UK could be met by the conversion to energy of biomass fuel
chains including organic waste arisings. 
Outlook
The Company will continue with the operation of the existing plant
at Avonmouth and will be strongly focused on the construction of
the new Avonmouth plant. In addition, it is expected that in the
coming year at least one other project will enter the construction
phase outside the UK in collaboration with overseas contractors.
This will see the implementation of our strategy of exploiting our
technology with strategic partners in overseas markets and we
anticipate strong interest following these initial demonstration
projects. 
There are clear signs that local and national environmental and
energy policies based on the principles of sustainability, both in
the UK and in various markets overseas, favour the technical
solution which we have demonstrated as a way of dealing with
wastes and of converting a wide range of biomass materials into
usable energy for the community.
It remains to thank all the Compact Power team who continue to
show the competence and dedication which is so crucial to the
success of our business. The visitors to our plant (who number
more than 4,000 over the last 4 years) are invariably impressed
and sense the positive view of the future which is shared by all
our personnel.
Nic Cooper Chairman
27 September 2005
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  03
Avonmouth plant, view of sterilisation vessels
This project is of major importance, not
only to Bristol, but to the waste industry
worldwide. We hope our decision sends 
a clear message to the Government that
Bristol is fully behind this project.  
Councillor Gary Hopkins, Bristol City Council.