 Chairman's Statement
Our goal of becoming an African based diamond
producer is coming closer. In the period under review
we have made significant progress in our three areas
of exploration, Botswana, Sierra Leone and Guinea. In
Botswana, we have a superb joint venture with De
Beers. In Sierra Leone, we are producing diamonds
from our trial mining on Pipe 3 in Koidu. In Guinea, we
have made significant progress on our alluvial projects
and we are ready to move to the next stage of
exploration.
Progress has been achieved on the corporate /
financial side. In Spring 2004, we listed on the
Botswana Stock Exchange, and in June 2004 we
raised fresh capital at 36p a share, more than 5 times
the listing price of July 2003.
I believe that the best is yet to come in Botswana. The
sampling results from kimberlite pipe AK6 in Botswana,
while very early stage, offer tantalizing prospects. We
have an ongoing programme of bulk sampling many of
the 29 known kimberlites in the De Beers joint venture
while a further 199 targets have been identified in the
Orapa licences from aerial exploration techniques.
In Sierra Leone, we continue to evaluate Pipe 3 while
we will shortly commence mini bulk sampling of the
kimberlitic dykes on our concessions. We have a
mining licence on a large tailings dump adjacent to the
former Plant 11 diamond alluvial operation. Initial
sample results suggest that the gold content in the
tailings should cover total operating costs i.e. the
diamonds will be free.
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2004 2
Figure 1 - 24 inch Tricone drill bit at BK11 in Botswana Chairman's Statement
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
As a gem quality diamond explorer, we have particular
interest in diamond industry trends. This is a good time
for the diamond industry and it is likely to continue.
There is a growing scarcity of gem quality diamonds
and demand is increasing while supply is at best, flat.
The major African mines are mature while new
Canadian entrants have not the size or quality output
to meet demand. The result is higher prices. Gem
quality diamond prices have risen by 30 per cent in the
past 2 years and look set to continue to rise.
But the scarcity is not only in big stones. Improving
technology and skills are enabling sophisticated
cutting of ever smaller diamonds. Stones, which until
recently would have been discarded or, worse,
crushed, are now in demand mainly from Indian
cutters. This trend is of particular interest to African
Diamonds as we expect to recover mainly small
diamonds from our Plant 11 project in Sierra Leone.
What is driving this growing demand for diamonds?
The improving world economy and diamond marketing
programmes are having some effect but the main
driver is new demand from India and China. It seems
that not only is a diamond forever, it also has universal
appeal. As per capita incomes grow in China and
India, tastes change. In India, gold jewellery is now
being studded with diamonds while in China diamond
jewellery is becoming increasingly fashionable.
So much for the demand, what about supply?
Botswana, Russia, Canada, Angola and South Africa
remain the principal sources of gem quality diamonds.
Sierra Leone will become a producer of very high quality
diamonds while Guinea is largely an unknown quantity.
It is a deliberate strategy of African Diamonds to focus
on countries with high quality large stone diamond
potential. This we have done. Our ground in Botswana
and Sierra Leone is top quality.
The Review of Operations which follows this statement
gives details of our operations. Let me give you a
flavour. Firstly Botswana. We have good ground, that is
the first and most important fact. In the Orapa area,
one of the world's greatest diamond provinces, we
hold over 3966 sq kilometres. To the Southeast, in the
Serowe area we hold a further 2483 kms. It is the
ground and the potential which attracted joint venture
partners. I believe that the agreement with De Beers
has company making potential for African Diamonds.
Initial results after six months work support my
contention. The early results from a 100 tonne bulk
sample on one of the 29 known kimberlites, AK6, in the
Orapa joint venture are impressive. A grade of 25
carats per hundred tonnes from a pipe greater than 5
hectares in size offers the hope of commerciality.
I should re-acquaint shareholders with the details of
the joint venture:
  Boteti, the joint venture company, is owned 51 per
cent De Beers and 49 per cent African Diamonds.
  De Beers pick up all costs on an agreed work
programme.
  If any discovery is taken to a full feasibility study,
the De Beers share goes to 70 per cent.
  Any or all mines with annual revenue less than $70
million US will be operated by African Diamonds
who will receive 70 per cent of the pre tax profit.
  All diamonds are sold to the Diamond Trading
Company (DTC) of De Beers.
Given that retail diamond prices are up to 9 times ex
mine prices, it is clear why De Beers do not want to
manage what they see as small mines. They want the
feedstock for their DTC operations.
There is an extensive ongoing exploration programme
in Botswana consisting of bulk sampling existing
kimberlites, defining pipe sizes and refining the 199
targets identified from the aerial exploration techniques
undertaken around Orapa. Put simply, what De Beers is
doing on our ground would not be technically or
financially possible for African Diamonds.
You will see from the review that we have added new
ground to the joint venture and we have also taken out
new ground wholly owned by African Diamonds. We
remain very keen on the Serowe area and will be
conducting an aerial survey in 2005.
Turning now to Sierra Leone. Here again we have high
potential licences, principally in the Koidu area. The
first hard rock mine in Sierra Leone opened in early
2004 about 3 kms away from our trial mine. Energem is
mining Pipes 1 and 2 - we are trial mining Pipe 3. Early
results from Energem indicate monthly recoveries of
15,000 carats of which a high percentage is gemstone
quality.
After a series of delays and equipment failure, we
began production in June. We are now processing
about 100 tonnes a day and recovering about 5 carats
per hundred tons with a high percentage gem quality.
We have treated 9,000 tonnes of mixed material. Our
results compare poorly with those of our neighbour
who is recovering as much as ten times our rate. There
are numerous reasons given for the difference. Over
the coming months a definitive analysis will be
completed. Chairman's Statement
Our second major project in Sierra Leone is evaluating
the commerciality of the 12km of kimberlite dykes
already mapped by African Diamonds. A significant
bulk sampling project will shortly commence with the
samples being processed through the Pipe 3 plant.
Our neighbour, Mano River Resources, has recently
announced a mining project on their dykes.
Our third significant project in Sierra Leone is an
evaluation of the 7/8 million ton tailings deposit around
the former Plant 11 diamond alluvial mine. Samples
from the deposit are being processed in South Africa
and Australia. Results suggest that a plant can be built
to recover diamonds and gold. The gold content
should cover all operating costs. Consideration may
be given to a joint venture whereby a plant will be built
at no capital cost to African Diamonds.
Our projects in Guinea are at an earlier stage, yet
results from 2 of our 3 concessions are impressive. We
have found diamonds in every pit on the Bomboko and
Seria licences. Application has been made to the
government of Guinea for a mining permit that will
allow semi industrial scale alluvial mining.
We had one significant disappointment this year. Our
joint venture proposal on the Kolo concession is
Lesotho has not moved forward and is unlikely to do
so. What appeared an attractive late stage
exploration/development project did not stand up to
due diligence. The Kolo site has a history of litigation.
Problems of title continue to exist. Furthermore, the
government of Lesotho has recently changed their
mining laws and would only grant a prospecting
licence over the concession. This was not by itself a
deal breaker but we were unable to obtain an
undertaking that we would be given a mining licence
after we completed the trial mining period. Together
with a co-director, I travelled to Maseru in Lesotho in
hopes of clarifying the issues but no solution was
forthcoming. We have not finally closed the door on the
project but it is most unlikely to proceed in the current
circumstances.
Finances
During the year we raised  2.1 m at 36p a share. This
money is being allocated mainly to Sierra Leone and
Guinea. Our budgets for 2005 show no need for
additional funds though I would be delighted to have
to raise money for a mining development in either
Botswana or Sierra Leone.
Future
The coming months will see a flow of exploration
results from Sierra Leone and Botswana. We will make
a decision on how best to proceed with Pipe 3 and with
the Plant 11 tailings project. More information will be
coming from the bulk samples on the existing
kimberlites in the Botswana joint venture while some of
the 199 targets will be assessed. African Diamonds will
itself explore the new Serowe licence. Guinea should
see the commencement of trial alluvial mining.
We have the ground, the people, the finance and the
technical capability to become a gemstone quality
diamond miner. We are a long way down the road
toward commercial production. No one knows what
lies under the Kalahari sands or deep in kimberlite
rocks which are hundreds of millions of years old but
the indicators are very positive.
John Teeling
Chairman
16 December 2004
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2004 4