 Chairman's Statement
African Diamonds is an exploration company.
Exploration is high risk, difficult, often dangerous, with
the chance that investors will lose their money.
Hard rock diamond exploration is among the most
risky of all ventures. It is reported that some 6,000
kimberlite pipes, the main source of diamonds, have
ever been discovered in the world and, of these, less
than 50 contain significant quantities of diamonds.
Even fewer, maybe 20, have become substantial
mines. These figures cover the entire history of hard
rock diamond exploration and mining!
Experienced explorers try to reduce the vast risk. You
try to avoid places where there is no known relevant
geology. It is said that the best place to find a mine is
where there is or was a mine. As you grow in
experience your admiration for ancient miners
increases. How they did what they did with the tools
available at the time is remarkable.
So it is with African Diamonds. We set out to become a
gem quality diamond miner within a short period. We
went to Botswana, the world's pre-eminent diamond
province, to Sierra Leone with a history of large
beautiful stones and to Guinea, which has geology and
a diamond mining history similar to that of Sierra
Leone. We looked at projects in other diamond
producing areas, Lesotho and Angola but decided not
to proceed.
In each area we sought acreage either close to an
existing producer, a former producer or with a relevant
history. In Botswana, we obtained top quality ground
containing 21 known kimberlites, now 30, close to the
world class Orapa and Lethlakane diamond mines. In
Sierra Leone, we obtained licences in Koidu adjacent
to where a new diamond mine was being developed
and another licence with known diamondiferous
kimberlite dykes. We also took further ground in
Botswana, Sierra Leone and Guinea, with no known
discoveries but with positive geological indicators.
Very occasionally fortune favours the brave. Our
strategy has been vindicated. Our joint venture, in
Botswana with De Beers, shows every indication of
being a company maker for African Diamonds. The
AK6 discovery near Orapa is a large pipe with good
grades and good quality stones. The pipe was one of
eight contributed by De Beers to our joint venture. The
discovery is on track to be declared commercial in the
next year. Current tonnage estimates are 54 million
tons of kimberlite. If the previously announced grades
of 25 carats per hundred tons (cpht) are maintained
and if the values of US$138 per carat are maintained
then a 5 million ton a year mine producing in excess of
1 million carats with revenues of US$150 million is
possible. I must caution you that it is still a prospect
but it looks good. De Beers is proposing to spend in
excess of $20m on AK6 in 2006. There is no cost to
African Diamonds.
We are hopeful of other discoveries, in particular
kimberlite AK8 has potential. A great deal of work
including Large Diameter Drilling has been done to
estimate size, carats and value. One lobe of this pipe,
about 2.5 hectares in size is, as previously reported,
estimated to have a grade and value which may have
commercial possibilities. This is of particular interest to
African Diamonds as the joint venture agreement with
De Beers specifies that small mines will be operated
by African Diamonds who, as a result, would keep 70%
of the profits. De Beers would buy all of the diamonds.
We will discuss options with De Beers.
While AK6 and AK8 are the focus of activities we have
other interesting projects in Botswana. Kimberlite
AK12 is a good size with interesting geology. It is
currently being drilled. BK11 estimated at 6.5 hectares
has been drilled. Results were mixed but more work
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2005 2
Diamonds recovered from AK6. Chairman's Statement
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
needs to be done. Our 100% owned Botswana
licence, Mmashoro, shows promise and needs to be
drilled. There are more opportunities in Botswana
which will be looked at in the coming year.
De Beers propose spending US$22 million on our
licences in 2006. At least as important as the cash
expenditure is the skill, expertise, experience and
facilities which De Beers bring to bear on exploration.
De Beers have unique exploration, processing,
evaluation and analytical competence. All of this is
being brought to bear on AK6 and the other prospects.
We have been active in West Africa in the period under
review. In Sierra Leone we completed an initial bulk
sampling of about 12,000 tons of weathered kimberlite
from Pipe 3 in Koidu. We had major difficulties with the
plant and with the material. We recovered 1,123 carats
of diamonds including some large stones. One, 7.22
carat stone, was valued at $2,336 per carat. The grade
obtained, is not exciting but a consultants' review of
the project revealed that over 50% of the material
needs reprocessing to recover diamonds. To do this
we need a new plant.
African Diamonds has mapped over 14 kms of dykes
on our Koidu licences. Kimberlite dykes tend to be
narrow, up to 1.5 metres wide, but if diamondiferous,
tend to be high grade. Petra Diamonds Ltd / Mano
River Resources Inc in joint venture, intend to mine
their dyke system, at a rate of 75 tons per hour. Their
dykes run into those of African Diamonds. Koidu
Holdings, who operate the mine at Pipes 1 and 2, are
developing a dyke project within 20 kms of our
licences. We have had discussions with a number of
parties interested in mining the dykes. Kimberlite dyke
mining, which is akin to narrow vein underground gold
mining, is challenging. To date we have not been
satisfied with the technical skills of potential partners.
In the coming year we intend to drive a number of
shallow shafts into the dykes, and to process the
material through a small new 5 ton per hour plant as
well as discussing proposals with potential partners.
We have a mining licence on the Plant 11 undersize
dumps. This 7 million ton resource accumulated during
the 23 year life of the Plant 11 alluvial operation which
processed the rich gravels from the Moinde and Oyie
rivers. The commercial value of a mining licence
should not be underestimated. It can take years to
negotiate such a licence. We have taken small
samples from Plant 11 dump and have recovered gold
grades and platinum indicators. The tests we used
recovered no diamonds but artisans working the dump
have recovered and continue to recover stones.
During the period under review we received a number
of proposals in relation to the undersize. We have not
accepted any of them. A project of particular
relevance to the development of Plant 11 undersize
dump is the proposal to mine the Plant 11 oversize
dump which is adjacent to our ground. The project is
at an advanced stage. Initial approaches have been
made to consider co-operating together.
In Guinea we obtained a small scale mining licence to
work the Bomboko alluvials. Initial production figures
indicate a grade of 0.257 carats per cubic metre.
Operations are being upgraded by the addition of
some mechanical equipment. We hope to establish a
small scale alluvial mine. Further details on operations
in Sierra Leone and Guinea are contained in the
Review of Operations.
The Diamond Industry
This is a good time to be in the diamond industry.
Demand is rising faster than supply particularly for
gemstone quality stones - which African Diamonds
expects to produce. The demand is being driven by
the United States, followed by India and China. The
Diamonds recovered from AK6. Chairman's Statement
powerful consumer advertising and promotion
campaign undertaken by De Beers seems to be
bearing fruit. Three stone engagement rings in the US,
diamond encrusted gold jewellery in India and in
China, the demand for diamond rings, are all
contributing to a demand estimated to be rising by 5
million carats a year.
Where are the new mines to meet this rising demand?
Existing gem quality large mines are mature with the
exception of Diavik in Canada. There are potential
mines in Canada but they will not be on stream for 4 or
5 years. Angola and the Congo are potential sources
but mines there will take even longer to come into
production. Russia is an unknown. For the next decade
Botswana is the most likely source of new large scale
gem quality diamonds. Our AK6 discovery in
Botswana is widely talked about as one of, if not, the
best diamond discovery in recent times. There is little
doubt that other discoveries are likely in Botswana. But
given the time lag between discovery and production,
a period of supply shortage is likely with a consequent
rise in prices.
Management
Since year end in June 2005 we have strengthened
management by recruiting two acknowledged
diamond experts. Alex van Zyl has joined the main
board as Technical Director. Alex has spent his entire
career spanning 40 years in diamonds, mainly with De
Beers where he rose to the highest levels.
Tafilani Machacha has joined the board of Kukama
Exploration, our Botswana subsidiary. Tafilani is a
career geologist and a former director of the Botswana
Geological Survey. Both men will have central roles to
play as our projects move towards commercial
development. Mark Scowcroft, a founding director,
resigned in August 2005.
Future
Our main outlay in the coming year is in Botswana
where De Beers will spend in excess of $22m on our
joint licences. We will spend nothing on these. Our
wholly owned operation in Botswana is expected to
expand but it will be low cost. Development proposals
on Plant 11 undersize dump and the dykes in Sierra
Leone are likely but they may very well be in joint
venture, so reducing capital cost. We have offers of
capital from numerous sources.
African Diamonds is facing a very bright future.
Beginning in early 2006 the likely development path for
AK6 will unfold. We are in the right place at the right
time with the right partner.
John Teeling
Chairman
21 December 2005
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2005 4