 Sustainability 
and 
discipline
Sir Roy Gardner
Chairman
I	am	delighted	to	report	another	year	in		
which	we	have	delivered	further	progress		
in	operating	profit	and	strong	free	cash	flow	
generation.	We	have	achieved	this	against	a	
backdrop	of	continuing	economic	uncertainty,	
high	food	cost	inflation	and	the	tragic	events	
earlier	this	year	in	Japan.	I	am	immensely	
proud	of	the	hard	work	and	commitment	to	
achieving	these	goals	shown	by	my	
colleagues	around	the	Group.
Our	strategy	is	unchanged.	Our	core	focus	
remains	on	delivering	shareholder	value		
from	the	significant	structural	opportunity	in	
foodservice	around	the	world	and	in	building	
our	capability	in	support	services.	We	are	
now	well	into	the	growth	phase	of	our	journey,	
a	phase	in	which	our	core	aim	is	sustainable	
and	disciplined	growth.	And	we	are	making	
good	progress,	building	on	the	strong	
foundations	we	have	put	in	place,	and	retaining	
our	emphasis	on	operational	excellence	in		
our	pursuit	of	growth.	
The	economic	backdrop	is	still	very	volatile	
and	is	likely	to	remain	so	for	some	time.		
Our	flexible	cost	base	and	the	significant	cost	
benefits	of	outsourcing	give	us	confidence	
that	amidst	the	challenges	of	this	economic	
environment	there	are	also	opportunities	for	
us.	Our	Management	and	Performance	
programme,	MAP,	is	fully	embedded	across	
the	Group	and	continues	to	drive	efficiencies	
and	act	as	a	framework	around	which	to	
share	best	practices	between	our	teams.	
Whilst	organic	growth	remains	our	priority,	over	
the	last	two	years	we	have	increased	our	focus	
on	small,	infill	acquisitions	and	these	are	now	
making	a	meaningful	contribution	to	growth.	
The	combination	of	a	solid	top	line	and	the	
continued	delivery	of	significant	efficiency		
gains	has	delivered	strong	profit	growth	and	
cash	flow	generation	and	has	enabled	us		
to	increase	our	investment	in	the	exciting	
opportunities	we	see	around	the	world.	The	
acquisitions	which	we	have	made	this	year	
have	taken	us	further	into	the	emerging	
Compass Group share price 
performance vs FTSE 100 Index 
over the last 3 years
Our clear and consistent focus on our growth 
strategy has enabled us to meet economic and 
operational challenges head on and come away  
a better and stronger business.
35
Position in the FTSE 100 Index
as	at	30	September	2011	(2010:	36)
10.3%
Total dividend up 10.3% to 19.3p
(2010:	17 .5p)
46.8%
36.4%
5.8% 1 year
2 years
3 years
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Chairman's statement markets	as	well	as	strengthening	our	offer		
in	support	services.	
This	year	we	have	more	than	doubled	our	
presence	in	Turkey	with	the	acquisition	of		
the	remaining	50%	of	our	former	joint	venture	
business,	SOFRA.	Since	the	year	end	we	have	
also	acquired	Obasan,	a	leading	foodservice	
business	in	Turkey.	In	India,	we	have	developed	
a	significant	national	presence	in	both	food	
and	support	services	with	the	recent	acquisitions	
of	Vipul,	UHS	and	Indus.	We	have	continued	
to	build	our	capability	in	support	services	in	
North	America	with	a	number	of	acquisitions	
across	Canada	and	the	United	States.	And	
our	commitment	to	building	scale	in	Europe	
and	Japan	can	be	seen	in	the	number	of	
acquisitions,	which	total	over	ten	this	year,	
that	we	have	made	in	the	region,	including		
the	Dutch	business	of	Elior,	as	well	as	VSG	
and	Cygnet	in	the	UK.
I	am	delighted	to	welcome	all	of	our	acquired	
businesses	into	the	Group	and	I	look	forward	
to	more	value	creating	acquisitions	as	we	
utilise	the	strength	of	our	balance	sheet	to	
drive	our	growth	plan	forward.
Commitment to corporate responsibility 
Corporate	responsibility	underpins	the	
responsible	and	sustainable	delivery	of	our	key	
business	drivers	and,	as	such,	is	an	integral	
part	of	achieving	our	overall	strategy.	The	
Board	believes	that	the	integration	of	corporate	
responsibility	across	the	Group	and	the	inclusion	
of	broader	social	and	environmental	issues	into	
our	decision	making	will	help	Compass	to	
achieve	our	business	goals,	act	as	a	building	
block	for	growth	in	shareholder	value	and	
benefit	the	communities	in	which	we	operate.	
As	such,	the	Board	remains	fully	committed		
to	this	important	aspect	of	how	we	operate.
We	are	now	into	our	fourth	year	of	measuring	
our	progress	and	our	drive	for	continuous	
improvement	is	set	out	in	the	Acting	
Responsibly	section	of	this	Report	on		
pages	32	to	41.
On	behalf	of	the	Board	I	would	like	to	thank	
Andrew	for	his	excellent	stewardship	of	the	
Group's	finances	and	to	welcome	Dominic	to	
the	Group.	
Our people
Over	the	year,	we	have	faced	economic	and	
operational	challenges.	But	our	clear	and	
consistent	focus	on	our	growth	strategy	has	
enabled	us	to	meet	them	head	on	and	come	
away	as	a	better	and	stronger	business.
None	of	what	we	have	achieved	would	have	
been	possible	without	our	people.	On	behalf	
of	the	Board,	I	would	like	thank	all	of	my	
Compass	colleagues	for	their	continued	
contributions	to	the	business.
Outlook
As	we	look	forward,	we	remain	very	optimistic	
about	the	opportunities	to	grow	the	business.	
Whilst	the	current	economic	uncertainty	is	likely	
to	put	ongoing	pressure	on	like	for	like	volumes	
in	parts	of	the	business,	the	opportunities	to	
grow	the	business	are	very	positive	and	our	
flexible	cost	base	will	enable	us	to	respond	
quickly	and	effectively.	We	are	well	placed	to	
capitalise	on	the	significant	structural	growth	
opportunities	in	both	food	and	support	services	
around	the	world	and	we	are	encouraged	by	
the	pipeline	of	new	business.	Whilst	we	see	
growth	potential	across	all	our	geographies,		
we	are	increasing	our	focus	on	expanding	our	
presence	in	the	fast	growing	and	emerging	
economies.	We	will	also	continue	to	drive		
cost	efficiency,	underpinning	our	expectation		
of	further	progress	in	the	operating	margin		
over	the	medium-term.	Strong	cash	flows	
should	continue	to	enable	us	both	to	reward	
shareholders	and	invest	in	value	creating		
infill	acquisitions.
Sir Roy Gardner 
Chairman	
23	November	2011
Dividend increase
Our	commitment	to	creating	shareholder	
value	remains	strong.	We	have	this	year	
completed	the	rebasing	of	our	dividend	with	
an	interim	dividend	increase	of	30%.	The	
Board	is	now	proposing	a	final	dividend	of	
12.8	pence	for	payment	on	27	February	2012.	
This	brings	our	total	dividend	for	2011	to		
19.3	pence,	a	year	on	year	increase	of	10.3%.
With	the	visibility	we	have	on	our	business	
performance	and	our	current	investment	
requirements,	we	have	taken	the	decision	to	
restructure	and	drive	greater	efficiency	into	
the	balance	sheet	through	a	 500	million	
share	buy	back	which	we	hope	to	complete		
over	the	next	twelve	months.	
After	concluding	the	buy	back,	we	expect	to	
retain	our	existing	credit	ratings	and	conserve	
an	appropriate	amount	of	financial	flexibility.	
Leadership
The	opportunities	and	challenges	that	face	us	
around	the	world	differ	from	region	to	region.	
We	are	therefore	adapting	our	management	
structure	to	give	each	area	the	required	focus.	
Our	Group	will	be	split	into	three	regions:	
North	America,	Europe	and	Japan	and	our	
fast	growing	and	emerging	countries.	
Arising	from	this	sharpening	of	our	geographic	
strategy,	we	will	be	making	some	important	
management	changes.	Our	current	Group	
Finance	Director,	Andrew	Martin,	and	our	
current	Group	Managing	Director	of	North	
America,	Gary	Green,	will	take	up	positions		
as	Group	Chief	Operating	Officers.	Gary	will	
continue	to	lead	the	North	American	business	
and	Andrew	will	head	Europe	and	Japan.	
With	Andrew	departing	his	role	as	Group	
Finance	Director,	we	are	also	pleased	to		
have	announced	the	appointment	of	Dominic	
Blakemore	who	will	assume	the	role	of	Group	
Finance	Director	from	next	April.	
Our strategy
We	have	a	clear,	focused	strategy	that		
is	delivering	value	for	our	shareholders		
and	has	created	a	well-balanced	and	
sustainable	business	model	with	significant	
opportunities	to deliver	continued	growth.
 		 Focus	on	our	contract	foodservice	
business
 		 Grow	our	support	services	business
 		 Committed	to	giving	our	customers	
superior	levels	of	service
 	Focus	on	driving	cost	efficiencies
Compass Group share price performance vs  
FTSE 100 Index 2011
470
500
530
560
590
620
 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 
2010 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011  
 
(1.8%)
(7 .6%)
Compass Group share price performance 
vs FTSE 100 Index 2011
 Compass FTSE 100
Over the last 
3 years
The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the Compass Group 
share price on 30 September 2010 (530.50 pence)
3
years
2
years
1
year
+00%
+00%
+00%
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 11 Focusing
on growth
The launch of our  Mapping for Growth' 
programme in 2010 marked the start of  
a new phase where quality, sustainable 
growth became a greater focus of the Group.
5.4%
Group organic growth
We're placing greater 
emphasis on growing 
revenues whilst retaining 
our relentless focus  
on efficiency. 
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Sustainable growth market,	which	is	of	a	similar	size	but	with		
an	even	lower	outsourcing	rate.	In	order		
to	capture	some	of	this	growth,	our	core	
strategy	is	unchanged:	we	remain	focused		
on	being	a	world-class	provider	of	contract	
food	and	support	services,	renowned	for		
our	great	people,	our	great	service	and	our	
great	results.	We	will	continue	to	invest	in	
both	organic	growth	and	infill	acquisitions	
without	losing	sight	of	our	relentless	focus		
on	efficiency.
Attractive Structural 
Growth Opportunity
Despite	the	good	levels	of	growth	we	have	
achieved	over	the	last	several	years,	we	still	
believe	there	are	plenty	of	opportunities	to	
capitalise	on	in	both	the	food	and	soft	
support	services	markets.	The	potential	size	
of	the	opportunity	in	both	markets	is	huge.	
The	total	foodservice	industry	is	estimated		
at	about	 200	billion,	of	which	less	than	50%	
is	believed	to	be	currently	outsourced.	The	
same	is	true	of	the	soft	support	services	
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 13