 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that your Company has made substantial progress during the period under
review. The focus of interest has clearly been on the AK6 diamond discovery in the Orapa area
of Botswana, though other projects, within Botswana are also showing promise. Operations in
Sierra Leone and Guinea have developed to such a level that your directors decided to create a
separate AIM listed company, West African Diamonds plc to hold and to develop these assets. The
demerger took effect on 26th October 2006, and as a result, shareholders in African Diamonds
received bonus shares in this new vehicle which is due to be admitted to trading on the AIM
market of the London Stock exchange prior to the end of 2006.
Botswana Developments
AK6 has grown in importance during the year. The initial resource estimate of 40m tonnes has
risen to more than 60m tonnes and is still growing. The modelled grade of 24 carats per hundred
tonnes (cpht) has been justified by ongoing Large Diameter Drill (LDD) results. Of particular
significance, was the discovery, in early 2006, of very rare Type 2 diamonds. These stones tend
to be large and contain no nitrogen. Only 2% of all known diamonds are Type 2 and they include
fabled gemstones such as the Cullinan diamond and large stones in the Crown Jewels. Type 2
diamonds were discovered in two holes 70 metres apart in the south lobe. Recovering these stones
intact adds challenges to the mining plan but is well worth the effort. In June 2006, the value per
carat was estimated at $150, which places AK6 among the highest value per carat kimberlite
projects in the world.  During the period some spectacular drilling feats were accomplished. A
diagonal core drill hole went 884 metres and intersected kimberlite nine times - both records for
De Beers. The Elephant drill rig drilled two holes deeper than 700 metres in the south lobe of AK6
- again a record. At these depths, the drill was still in kimberlite. The Elephant rig, one of only
three in the world, drills 23 inch diameter holes and, in effect, takes bulk samples from each hole.
Now that the geology and the resource are known with more confidence, detailed mine planning
is underway. The current studies assume an open cast mine down to 400 metres operating at
approximately 4 million tonnes a year to recover 48 million tonnes of ore containing over 11
million carats of diamonds. This will take the project up to 2020 after which the mine may go
underground. Alternative strategies which could expedite start up and lower capital costs are also
being evaluated. 
De Beers are spending up to $16m a year on AK6 alone. African Diamonds, which currently holds
a 49% interest in the project, is fully carried, which means that we incur no expenditure. Once a
Bankable Feasibility Study is declared on AK6, the percentages in the overall joint venture
change to 70/30 De Beers/African Diamonds. 
As an open cast mine deepens it also spreads out, often over a large area. When planning the open
cast, it was discovered that the mine could spread into an adjacent licence. Further, as the south
lobe deepened, it bulged into the same adjacent licence. The adjacent licence was a joint venture
between De Beers and Wati Ltd, a private Botswana company. We have agreed a three way deal
on AK6 which gives clarity on title, brings strong local Botswana contacts into the consortium at
the cost of a slight reduction in the African Diamonds participation - from 30% to 28.38%. Wati
African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2006
2 African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2006
3
will hold 1.35% and De Beers 70.27%. Two vital steps remain in the AK6 project, obtaining the
State Mining Lease and negotiating the Financial Structure. 
While AK6 is the obvious focus of attention and effort, indeed the volume of AK6 samples is
clogging the entire De Beers analysis facilities, there is substantial and significant ongoing
additional exploration activity on our ground in Botswana. Of particular relevance to African
Diamonds is the status of the AK8 discovery, the 5.1 hectare pipe which lies within 10km of AK6.
Exploration and evaluation to date suggests that this discovery could be a satellite supplier to
AK6, however, African Diamonds may have an alternative view of developing a smaller, stand
alone mine. Under the terms of the De Beers/African Diamonds joint venture, African Diamonds
will operate mines with annual revenue of less than US$70m. The AK8 pipe has two lobes. The
south lobe, some 2.5 hectares in size, has a modelled grade of 9-16 cpht. It is possible that a low
cost operation could be viable in this lobe. More exploration is needed to better define the
resource. This should occur in 2007. 
Since the joint venture began in late 2004, De Beers have drilled hundreds of core holes, dozens
of LDD holes and completed over 1,000 of kilometres of gravity surveys. Many additional targets
still remain on our JV ground.
It is with great pleasure that I report our success in obtaining PL36/2006, a 22 sq. km. licence in
Orapa. African Diamonds has been focused on obtaining this ground for years. It is well located
close to the Orapa mines and is known to contain numerous diamondiferous kimberlites. Boteti,
our joint venture company, proposed a substantial exploration programme for PL36. This
programme, which is already underway, will use the full array of exploration techniques in the De
Beers armoury. Three kimberlites, BK3, BK6 and BK7, are estimated to be 8.5 ha., 3.5 ha. and
2.5 ha. respectively, in size and to have good geology. They are the immediate targets. I would
hope to report initial results in Q1 2007.
West African Developments
In West Africa, three projects had moved to a stage where development was required. In addition,
significant exploration potential remained on our existing ground and on ground which could
become available. In Sierra Leone, the company obtained a mining licence over 7 million tonnes
of undersize diamond tailings in the Koidu area. These are known to contain gold and small
diamonds. Our exploration on the Pipe 3 kimberlite in Koidu, using inadequate equipment, had
recovered good quality diamonds. Exploration around Pipe 3 had mapped 14km of dykes
estimated to contain between 65 and 95 cpht. Across the border in Guinea, African Diamonds
operated a trial mine on an alluvial diamond resource on the Bomboko River which revealed
significant potential in the gravels. Additional licences around Bomboko, which have been
acquired in recent days, are estimated in the Competent Persons Report for the listing of West
African Diamonds, to have potential for up to 750,000 carats of diamonds. 
The three late stage development projects, along with significant exploration potential on our
licences, were being ignored by investors focused only on Botswana. In order to unlock value,
your directors decided to spin off the Sierra Leone and Guinea assets into a separate company,
West African Diamonds (WAD).  This company will manage and finance the developments in
West Africa. Shareholders in African Diamonds received bonus shares in West African Diamonds African Diamonds Annual Report and Accounts 2006
at a rate of one West African Diamond share for every 3.7 African Diamonds shares held on
October 26th 2006. These shares are due to be admitted to trading on the AIM market of the
London Stock Exchange prior to the end of 2006.
James Campbell, the new Managing Director of African Diamonds, is also the Executive Deputy
Chairman of West African Diamonds. He will appoint a Chief Operating Officer in early 2007.
He, in turn, will manage the existing management teams in Sierra Leone and Guinea.
African Diamonds will retain a 15 percent interest in WAD.
Financing
In early 2006, African Diamonds placed 7,125,000 shares at 63p a share, raising  4.5m. These
funds should finance the Company through the foreseeable future, certainly up to the Bankable
Feasibility Study on AK6. The Sierra Leone and Guinea operations have historically cost  80,000
a month. This expenditure is now part of West African Diamonds costs.
Staffing
We are fortunate to have obtained the services of James Campbell as Managing Director. James
obtained unrivalled experience during his 20 year career in De Beers. He has the contacts skills
and experience to drive the AK6 project forward and to source and evaluate additional projects
for the Company.
We are building our team. In addition to the appointment of James and that of Alex Van Zyl as
Technical Director, we are utilising the services of experienced people, skilled in geology, mining
and metallurgy.
James McGregor has been instrumental in driving forward the West African business. He has
become an Executive Director of West African Diamonds, where he will devote substantially all
of his time. Accordingly, James has decided not to stand for re-election as a director of African
Diamonds at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Future
African Diamonds has a very bright future. I am confident that AK6 will become a world class
diamond mine and AK8 has the potential to become a second mine.  Significant potential exists
on our ground in Botswana in particular, on PL36, where targets are identified waiting to be
drilled. We are building a management team to exploit fully opportunities presenting themselves. 
John Teeling
Chairman
12th December 2006
4