 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Since establishment in 2001 African Diamonds (AFD) has spent a total of  7m to acquire, a 28.38%
interest in the AK6 diamond mine development in Botswana, a 30% interest in Atlas the AFD/De
Beers exploration company, a 35.42% interest in Bugeco S.A., a Congo diamond company and,
a 12.5% interest in West African Diamonds, a diamond and gold company in Sierra Leone and
Guinea. Whilst we have previously been successful in indentifying attractive assets, we have no
intention of resting on our laurels. There are more diamond opportunities in Botswana, while our
Congo and West African operations look good.
The AK6 diamond deposit in Botswana, in which we currently hold a 28.38% stake, holds pride of
place in our portfolio. It is expected to produce diamonds toward the end of 2009. The capital
cost has been funded at no dilution to AFD shareholders by use of project finance and loans for
the AFD equity portion.
While the Botswana core focus is very clearly on bringing the AK6 mine into production, AFD
continues to actively explore for diamonds both through joint ventures with De Beers and solely
on our own acreage. There are more discoveries to be made in the country.
Outside of Botswana, we hold stakes in two diamond companies. Bugeco S.A. (35.42% AFD) has
a joint venture with De Beers in the Congo (DRC), where two new kimberlite fields have been
discovered, including two large (10 hectare) diamondiferous pipes. West African Diamonds
(12.5% AFD), is AIM listed and at the final commissioning stages of a gold and diamond operation
in Sierra Leone and, in addition, is currently on target to produce alluvial diamonds in 2008 in
Guinea. It holds exciting exploration prospects in both countries.
The diamond industry is unique. We do not sell carbon. We sell friendship, hope, romance,
mystery and love. An increasing number of people are buying into these values by purchasing
diamonds. Millions of Indian women are now adding diamond jewellery to their dowries and
millions of Chinese are accepting Western customs associated with diamonds, such as
engagement rings. In the advanced Western economies, in addition to engagement rings, ladies
themselves are buying big gemstone rings to wear on fingers on their right hands. These trends
augur well for diamond demand.
What of supply? Diamonds are fabled because of their scarcity as well as their mystical qualities.
For centuries, only royalty owned these fabulous stones. Finding and developing a kimberlite
diamond mine is one of the rarest events in mining. There have been only 50 or so kimberlite
diamonds mines ever developed. The biggest by value (Orapa) and the best (Jwaneng), are in
Botswana. With the exception of AK6, and a couple of possibilities in Canada, there are no new
kimberlite mines in development. Existing mines are mature or declining, meaning a stable supply
at best.
A situation where demand is greater than supply is good for prices. Expectations are for a
substantial price rise over the coming years.
The AK6 Mine
Botswana is the best diamond address in the world. The Orapa area in Botswana is the best street
within the address and the AK6 mine will be a fine new edifice on the best street. It really is as simple
as that. With our partner, De Beers, we were exceptionally lucky to discover AK6. Located about 20
kms west of the large Lethlakane diamond mine and 20km south of the world's number one
diamond mine by value, Orapa, AK6 was literally a hidden jewel. It is logical to attribute the
discovery to luck but careful selection of exploration ground in the most prolific diamond province
in the world and the application of cutting edge techniques reduced the risk of failure dramatically.
  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
When AK6 ramps up to full production in 2011 or 2012 it will be a world class hard rock diamond
mine producing up to 1 million carats a year of high value gem quality diamonds.
Most of the hard work is done. The planning and evaluation are completed, and financing is in
place. The last piece of the jigsaw, the mining licence, is under application. A final decision on
the licence is expected in early 2008 after which construction will begin.
The African Diamonds financial investment in AK6 is being met without any dilution to existing
shareholders. Three quarters of the capital cost is being provided as project loan finance. The
AFD equity portion is being loaned by De Beers at LIBOR plus 3.0%. The financial package was a
good deal when negotiated in mid 2007. Given the turmoil in equity markets the deal is now very
good.
The mine, when it comes on stream, will be state of the art, employing the most modern and
efficient processing technology. A full range of studies covering geology, mining, metallurgy,
hydrology, environment and economics, were undertaken as part of the Mining Licence
Application. The mine will be open cast for the first 12 years, after which an underground
operation will be considered. It is of interest to note that the two mines close by, Orapa and
Lethlakane, are likely to go underground in the near future.
Other Botswana Activities
It is easy to see AFD as a mine development company only, but this is far from the truth. We hold
extensive exploration ground in the Orapa area of Botswana, most of which is in the Atlas joint
venture with De Beers (30% AFD, 70% De Beers). Intensive exploration, ranging from early stage
anomaly identification, to large diameter drilling (LDD) on specific targets is underway. The
Makadikadi Pan licence, north of the Orapa mine, is an exciting enigma to diamond explorers.
A look at a map shows more than 75 kimberlites to the south, east and west of Orapa and only
one, an outcrop, north, in the Makadikadi. The salt, and deep Kalahari sand cover, make
exploration difficult but a new geophysical technique (SQUID) is being employed by De Beers
and will be used on the licence in 2008. Whilst we would need to be exceptionally fortunate to
find another kimberlite with the full potential of AK6, we are in the right place.
Two other Orapa kimberlites, AK8 and AK9, have interesting potential. The AK8 discovery, close
to AK6, is tantalising. It is not good enough to become a large diamond mine in its own right and
not bad enough to discard. It looks likely that the commercial opportunity lies in a smaller section
of the Southern Lobe where grades, and more importantly, diamond values, suggest that a
shoestring operation may be viable. Recent results from large diameter drilling on AK9 discovered
diamonds in one part of the pipe. This will be followed up.
Given the exciting prospects that exist in the area, we have strengthened our wholly owned
operation in Botswana. The new team will have as a priority, a commercial evaluation of AK8 and
a ramp up of our own exploration.
African Diamonds holds 100% of licences in Mmashoro as well as five new licences in the Kedia
area to the west of Orapa. Work will begin shortly to identify the source of diamond indicators
found on the Kedia block. These indicators do not come from Orapa or the Gope diamond field
to the south, so the hypothesis is that an unknown kimberlite cluster exists in the area. This is our
target.
Diamond Activities Outside of Botswana
We hold interests in two other diamond ventures. West African Diamonds (12.5% AFD) should be
producing gold and diamonds in Sierra Leone by end 2007. WAD also has a late stage alluvial
development at Bomboko in Guinea, a small medium grade (19 cpht) high value ($228 a carat)
  4 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
kimberlite pipe in Koidu, Sierra Leone and good licences in both countries. Bugeco S.A., a Belgian
company, (35.42% AFD) has a joint venture with De Beers on 22 exploration licenses in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Work to date has discovered two new kimberlite
clusters containing at least ten kimberlites, two of which are 10 hectares or bigger. Bulk sampling
will take place in the coming months.
Finance
There has been a distinct shift toward Botswana in the ownership of African Diamonds which is
listed in both London and Gaborone. Between 15% and 20% of the company is now owned by
individuals and institutions in Botswana. We are delighted with this development and hope that
it continues.
We spend very little money. Since foundation, we have raised  10m of which we hold  3m. The
cash balances will be used to fund our growing exploration activities in Botswana, both in our
own right, and in joint venture with De Beers. Our mine development costs are fully funded while
our associated companies should not require funding.
Future
Shareholders, investors and the public, find it hard to understand the rarity and value of the AK6
discovery. Despite hundreds of companies spending vast sums exploring all over the world,
commercial kimberlite diamond mines are rarely discovered.
I point again to the fact that only 50 kimberlite diamond mines have ever been built and only
about 30 are now operating.
AK6 will be one of these rare creatures.
John Teeling
Chairman
10th December 2007
 