  
2 
Chairman's Statement 
Business 
Summary 
 
We design, manufacture and supply high-end embedded computer products for the defence, telecommunication, 
aerospace, transportation, scientific and industrial markets. These high performance products are based on Intel
 
 
long life cycle components, and cover a range of central processing unit (CPU ) boards and computer systems, 
which include single and dual processor boards, many using dual-core processors and more recently, Intel
 
 
Core  i7 and quad-core Intel
 
 Xeon
 
 processors. Designed for the 3U and 6U CompactPCI
 
, VPX, VME, AMC 
and Multibus II open architecture standards, a common feature of our products is the low level of electrical power 
required for their high performance capabilities. 
Our products deliver very high levels of reliability with substantial processing power, making them ideal for use in 
projects ranging from high-performance military communications systems to commercial industrial control units. 
Furthermore we develop ruggedized versions of many of our products for use in harsh and wide temperature 
environments, making them very appealing for a variety of demanding applications. These long life-cycle boards, 
the vast majority of which are made in-house, are batch produced to highly detailed specifications. 
In addition to hardware design capability, our engineering teams undertake a significant amount of software and 
firmware development to provide interoperability between products, allowing customers to transition smoothly 
when new updates or designs are available. In this way we continue to see strong customer loyalty and long term 
relationships, as well as new sales following product launches featuring performance upgrades. We also generate 
software for both on-board and production test purposes, while also providing support for leading embedded and 
real-time operating systems. 
Financial 
Summary 
I am pleased to report a profit before tax for 2009 of  2,797,794 (2008:  2,951,603) a reduction of 5% over the 
previous year following a provision of  279,000 against a doubtful receivable. The Directors view this as a one-off 
incident and unlikely to be repeated in future periods. Profit after tax for 2009 was  2,538,306 (2008:  2,335,072), 
an increase of 8.7%. Increased investment in product design has resulted in a reduced tax charge arising from 
higher Research and Development Tax Credits. Earnings per share for the year increased to 3.55p (2008: 3.26p). 
In the second half of the year, profit before tax was  1,429,878, an increase of 5% over the first half of 2009 (H1 
2009:  1,367,916). This result was achieved on sales of  12,854,777, an increase of 2% compared with 2008 
(2008:  12,619,631). 
Gross margins for the year strengthened again to 56.4% up from 53.0% last year, a result influenced by the 
strong US dollar. Although expenditure on product development increased by 60% in the year from  2,031,970 in 
2008 to  3,250,465 we ended the year with cash and cash equivalents of  4,914,657 (2008:  4,994,266) and no 
borrowings.  
We continue to broaden our already diverse customer base most of which comprises large, high quality 
companies and organisations across multiple sectors and in many countries. Furthermore, in common with last 
year, our defence customers were the biggest contributors to our turnover. Exports accounted for 87% of revenue.
Review of 
Operations 
During the year the Company continued to market its products into high performance applications which require 
long term supply and where we see high levels of demand for innovative products. In addition to the launch of 
new processor boards, we continued to develop many environmentally superior products that can operate at 
extreme temperatures, elevated altitudes and at high shock and vibration levels. With slight variations in operating 
capacities and format, these products address many different customer needs. 
In 2009, we launched 10 new products, including boards designed according to the 6U and 3U CompactPCI
 
 
standards and products featuring the quad-core InteI
 
 Xeon
 
 processors which are particularly suited for use 
within the defence, telecommunications and homeland security market sectors. During this period we also began 
design work on the latest Intel
 
 Core  i7 products featuring many attributes which are desired by our customers.  
We continue to develop products using low and ultra-low power processors enabling us to supply products which 
feature large amounts of functionality on small boards which can then be ruggedized and made to operate in 
harsh environments. In addition, we continued to extend our family of single slot VME single board computers as 
well as our range of XMC and AMC products. Low power consumption, with consequent higher reliability, 
continues to be a critical requirement for end users of embedded computer products. 
One of the highlights since my Chairman's Statement in April 2009 has been the progress we have made on the 
development of VPX products and more specifically our involvement in the industry-wide effort to establish the 
OpenVPX  specification. As a result of its pioneering development work, the Company was at the forefront of 
releasing OpenVPX  products targeted at the defence and transportation markets in late 2009.  
Another significant highlight for Concurrent Technologies was the award by Lockheed Martin Corporation in 
February 2010 of their prestigious STAR Supplier Award for the Company's exceptional performance as 
measured by quality, delivery, affordability, management and administration.   
 
   
3 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
Future 
Plans 
The key to continued success is to expand our range of products, with a particular focus on the VPX and 
CompactPCI
 
 bus architectures. Our business aim will be to design more products for complex, high technology, 
low to medium volume and high margin applications, along with producing versions targeted for use in harsh 
environments, including military applications. We continue to look for acquisition opportunities but this is not our 
top priority; indeed there is plenty of scope for internal organic growth where we continue to see many 
opportunities to grow the business into new market areas without taking unacceptable risk.  
We continue to press for the expansion of our design engineering capability both in the UK and India and, 
therefore, maintain our policy of recruiting design engineers in both countries. The design facility in Bangalore, 
India is now fully operational (20 employees at the end of 2009, up from 16 at the end of 2008) and producing key 
designs. 
The Company has used its authority in 2009 to buy back its own shares and the Directors will continue to do this 
when they consider it appropriate. 
Dividend In March 2010 the Board declared a second interim dividend of 0.90 pence per share (2008: 0.85 pence final 
dividend) which was paid to shareholders on 1
st
 April 2010. The total cost of this second interim dividend 
amounted to  643,491. This second dividend, when added to the first interim dividend of 0.50 pence per share 
paid in September 2009, makes a total dividend for the year of 1.40 pence per share (2008: 1.30 pence). This is 
an increase of 7.7% over the dividends paid in for 2008. 
The Directors do not intend to recommend a final dividend given the payment of the interim dividends as 
mentioned above. 
Outlook 
 
Trading in the first quarter of 2010 has proceeded in line with our expectations.  
Reduced world economic activity has had a negative effect on companies in the telecommunications and 
industrial sectors, but we are seeing signs of recovery which we believe will be sustained in these sectors. 
Moreover, we have seen no contraction in that part of the defence market in which we operate and in this regard, 
our future looks positive. We see very strong interest in our products for projects involving the detection and 
detonation of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and for electronic, aerial and battlefield surveillance. Sales 
growth this year is likely to be modest, although at this stage we expect our financial performance to continue to 
remain satisfactory. Beyond 2010, we are confident that the investment we have made in creating new 
opportunities, particularly in defence applications, will produce rewards in future periods. 
Investment in product development was increased by 60% in 2009 over 2008 as we took the view that the 
improving economic climate warranted an enhanced focus on our core business and a substantial increase in the 
diversity of our product range. 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
As an AIM quoted company Concurrent Technologies Plc is not obliged to comply with the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance. We do however acknowledge the overall importance of the guidelines and apply as many 
of the principles therein as are appropriate to a company of our size and nature. 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting this year will be held on 21
st
 May 2010. 
 
 
Michael Collins 
Chairman 
 
14 April 2010 
 
All companies and product names are trademarks of their respective organisations. 