 Dear Shareholder
2006 saw further advances in the evolution
of your Company's strategy which is based
on maximising the benefits provided by the
quality and experience of our exploration
personnel by coupling them with the
expertise of industry partners with skills in
the development and exploitation of mining
projects. We are justifiably proud of our
people, their skills and their ability to find
good projects in the countries in which we
operate and to advance them to a stage
where they become attractive to other parties.
Our Review of Operations this year expands
more on the individual projects than in
previous years, giving me the luxury of using
my statement to elaborate on and illustrate
that strategy by addressing some of the
points which shareholders have raised
during the year. 
As you will see from the Review of
Operations, we have made, and continue 
to make, excellent progress at Mkushi and
Ndola. Despite the heaviest rains in decades
we've completed airborne and geochemical
surveys and undertaken additional drilling
programmes enabling further resource
definition, as well as securing development
partners of high quality for three of our four
key projects. Elsewhere, we have carried out
a major review of the entire data base for
Eagle Eye to identify new drill targets, we've
conducted extensive surface surveys on
several of our Lake Victoria properties and
we've continued to evaluate new projects and
potential partners in line with our strategy.
Only at Miyabi has a combination of the
weather and bureaucratic delays hindered
progress during 2006. Our joint venture with
Randgold signed on 2 May 2007 will now
benefit the project enormously as Randgold
commences work under that agreement.
Turning to some of those points I'm regularly
asked about.
Why does African Eagle bring in partners 
to progress its projects?
African Eagle's expertise lies in exploration:
the identification, acquisition and evaluation
of good projects with clear development
potential and a strong likelihood of value
realisation. Mine development takes time,
money, a different corporate culture and
people with different skill sets. For these
reasons, to take good projects through 
to production, we choose to work with 
high-quality industry partners who have 
the financial strength and the requisite
development skills and experience. 
This enables us to reach production
decisions more quickly and to mitigate
project risk through involvement in several
shared projects. With development and
exploration projects with several partners in
three countries and in various commodities,
we believe we are protected if any single
project should not deliver - our eggs are 
not all in one basket!
Moreover, our partners' investments free 
up our own cash for the project generation
and exploration activities which are African
Eagle's core capabilities. If all our partners
complete their full commitments under 
our various farm-in agreements, we expect
that they will invest US$50M or more into
African Eagle's projects.
We now have excellent partners at three 
of our four key projects: Miyabi, Ndola and
Mkushi. Randgold, our partner at Miyabi, 
is arguably one of the most accomplished
gold project developers operating in Africa.
Phelps Dodge, with whom we are exploring
Ndola, is one of the world's largest copper
producers and the management team 
at CGA Mining, our Mkushi partner, was
instrumental in the development of the first
modern gold mines in Tanzania (at Golden
Pride) and in Mongolia. We have also signed
up good partners for some of our non-core
02 Chairman's Statement
AFRICAN EAGLE RESOURCES plc REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
John Park
Chairman
African Eagle's expertise lies in exploration:
identifying, acquiring and evaluating good
projects with clear development potential 
70413 PRE   30/5/07  15:39  Page 2 projects, we are in negotiation with potential
partners of similar quality for many of our
other projects and we are looking at different
deal structures, including royalty deals, 
to get the maximum benefit out of future
partnerships on non-core projects. 
How far are African Eagle's projects from
starting production?
A decision to develop a mining operation 
can be made as soon as we (or one of our
partners) can demonstrate that a project is
economically feasible, that is, as soon as we
have identified a mineral reserve of sufficient
size, grade and character to be mined 
and processed at a profit. With our most
advanced projects, this decision could be 
as little as 12 months away. We are always
looking for opportunities to get production
started quickly.
Has African Eagle got a balanced property
portfolio?
We believe so. As an exploration and 
project generation company, we are always
evaluating our current project portfolio and
considering new properties that meet our
criteria for economic potential. We have been
able to take forward key projects like Mkushi
and Miyabi to resources status and to make
them attractive to partners. In both cases it
was our partner who initiated the approach. 
We believe that the current buoyant metals
market is a good time to be project rich, as
mining companies are very keen to acquire
new projects to replenish their depleting
reserves. Their investment leverages our
quality of our exploration teams in the field.
We know that not all good ideas bear fruit,
however, and we relinquish properties whose
commercial value we have assessed and
determined to be minimal, or where laying
off the risk has proved impossible or too 
time consuming. For example, we recently
dropped the Muazua project in Mozambique
when the strong nickel geochemical
anomalies turned out to be caused by
localised surface enrichment and we have
relinquished a number of Tanzanian gold
licences which failed to meet our criteria.
How does African Eagle promote the
Company through Investor Relations
activities?
In the last 8 months, we have presented 
at seven major shows and conferences in
London, Lusaka, Cape Town, Livingstone and
Toronto, conducted a site visit to Mkushi for
fund managers and analysts, participated
twice on Stockmarket-TV, been the subject 
of two very bullish analysts' Buy Notes and
talked with scores of analysts, investors and
fund managers. The IR programme for the
next 12 months promises to be just as busy.
In October 2006, we appointed Euan
Worthington as our Deputy Chairman with
specific responsibility for Investor Relations.
Euan has more than 20 years' experience 
in the City of London as a mining analyst 
and corporate finance specialist. 
As a service to our shareholders, African
Eagle has consented to its shares being
traded on PLUS Markets in London to
supplement our primary listing on AIM and
our trading facility on the Berlin-Bremen
exchange in Germany. At a time when the
number of minerals exploration and mining
companies on AIM has grown to well over
300, we continue to investigate ways to
differentiate ourselves from the herd.
Will African Eagle have to raise new funds
in the market?
As soon as we have a positive feasibility
study on one of our projects, we will have to
raise our share of the capital costs and other
development costs to bring the mine into
production. As a rule, part of these costs will
be met from equity and part by bank debt
raised on the basis that a feasibility study is
a detailed business plan which will include
clear forecasts of revenue and profits. In the
meantime, however, it is likely that we will
need to raise more working capital to pursue
our current exploration projects and to
continue to generate new projects. A good
deal of exploration, as I've said, is now being
funded by our farm-in partners.
How can investors place a value on a
company like African Eagle?
African Eagle's stage of development, the
nature of our assets and the way we manage
them makes it difficult to compare us 
directly with many of our peers. We do not
have a producing mine, or a project with 
very near term production. We do, however,
have two projects with JORC-compliant
resources, both being taken forward by
experienced mine operators and both
capable of being valued objectively by the
criteria used for any such resources. 
We also have a suite of earlier stage 
projects, some wholly owned by us and
others being explored by partners. We have
the potential, and intention, to generate
many more projects and we are looking 
to the means by which we structure our
partnership agreements in order to add 
and realise value.
In his review of operations, our Managing
Director Mark Parker sets out where we 
are now and our objectives for each of our
projects. I believe that most commentators
would agree that our current market
capitalisation belies the value of our assets.
As a substantial shareholder myself, I think
that the current low share price represents 
a considerable opportunity, and I hope that
this annual report will convince you of it.
John Park
Chairman
03
AFRICAN EAGLE RESOURCES plc REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
70413 PRE   29/5/07  15:31  Page 3
expertise and skills in target generation and the