 Dear shareholder
It has been a most significant year for African Eagle on a number of fronts
and one which I believe will be recognised in years to come as having
been a landmark one for the Company. We have continued our
development as a diversified, experienced exploration and emerging
mining company, with a competitive base in stable and highly prospective
countries in eastern and southern Africa. Highlights of the year included:
  The completion of the pre-feasibility study on the Mkushi Copper
Project which indicated an initial resource of 10.7Mt at 1.11%
copper. At this stage the project looks highly viable and we are looking
forward to the conclusion of the Definitive Feasibility Study later in
2008, which I hope and expect will increase both the size and the
grade of the resource.
  The listing of the Company on the Alternative Exchange of the JSE
Limited (JSE) (AltX), in August 2007, which coincided with the
placement of stock to the value of ZAR88M ( 6.3M) in South Africa
and   1.1M in the UK. This highly successful secondary listing was the
largest fund raising by a resources company on the AltX to date and
we were the first resources company to list on this market without any
assets in South Africa. Around 22% of African Eagle's issued shares are
now held on its South African register and we believe that about 30%
of our shares are now managed from South Africa. The funds from the
placing have secured African Eagle's near-term future and place us in
a position to progress key unencumbered projects further than we might
have otherwise.
  The funding of our Ndola exploration by Phelps Dodge (now part of
Freeport McMoRan) through subscriptions for two tranches of shares. 
  The introduction of Randgold Resources into the Miyabi Project in May
and their commencement of an exploration programme to improve the
geological model and to increase the resource estimate of the
500,000 plus ounces we have delineated there.
  The award of the Mokambo Copper Project licence in September and the
commencement in December of our drilling programme to demonstrate the
potential that exists in the eastern limb of the Mufulira syncline.
In March this year we announced that TWP Finance, a subsidiary of JSE-
listed South African consulting engineering company, TWP Holdings,
an EPCM (Engineering Procurement Construction Management)
company, had acquired a strategic stake in African Eagle, which TWP
expects to increase from the current 5% level. TWP has skills,
capabilities and assets which complement our own and we see TWP,
as our relationship with them grows, as a preferred partner, through
project development partnerships or via the provision of services by
TWP Consulting. As this relationship develops, we will also seek new
joint initiatives.
The detailed progress on our portfolio of projects is reported by
Managing Director Mark Parker and Operations Director Chris Davies in
the review of operations that follows my statement. From a corporate
perspective, however, there are a number of areas that I wish to address.
Our listing on the JSE was indeed well timed and beneficial to the
Company. While new shareholders may not yet have seen the benefit of
this, our share price having fallen since August in line with our peers', I am
positive that in the longer-term they will reap the benefits afforded by the
injection of capital that will give us the ability to weather the current storm
in the global markets. Moreover, our substantial cash position will ensure
that we are well-placed to take advantage of acquisition and joint venture
opportunities that are likely to arise in a cash-strapped exploration sector
over the next year or so. 
We have always encouraged investors to take a longer-term view as we
develop and deliver projects, as we believe that the market will ultimately
recognise the value of the Company. We consider, however, that our
share price performance has not reflected either the commodity price rally
or the significant progress we have made in augmenting and developing
our portfolio during the year. In respect of the former, while the major gold
and copper companies have benefited to some degree from the gold and
copper price rises, this has not flowed through to exploration companies
as yet, in an apparent disconnect between the value above and the value
below ground. There appears, too, to be a widespread lack of
understanding of exploration companies and their importance in the
development and production processes that culminate in the generation
of the cash flow so favoured by the market. We recognise that there is a
need for us to deliver near-term cash flow and this is something that we
are addressing.
Our policy of partnerships remains important to the Company and will
continue to deliver significant intrinsic value. By engaging with companies
which are well-placed in terms of skills and experience, financial support
and local knowledge, we exert significant leverage to our larger projects,
bringing them to fruition on an accelerated time scale. We will continue
to develop partnerships similar to those already signed with Freeport
McMoRan, CGA Mining and Randgold Resources.
I alluded earlier to the Board's recent review of our broad strategy,
which came to the conclusion that there is also significant value to be
attained through the development, in-house, of high quality, near-to-
production projects from our portfolio. This is particularly so given the
skills within our own company and the fortunate position that we are
in, with our partners funding the exploration and development of the
larger projects. Thus, we are currently looking closely at bringing one
of our unencumbered projects into production on our own. Whilst it is
African Eagle Resources Annual Report  4
John Park, Chairman 5 African Eagle Resources Annual Report  
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
still early days and no firm decision has been made, the Mokambo and
Rupa projects may have the ability to deliver substantial returns. Their
value is also currently overlooked by the market in our resource base.
Combined with our own operations, we can also look forward to taking
a significant step towards production at Mkushi in November/December
2008 at the conclusion of the Bankable Feasibility Study, with production
expected by the second quarter of 2010. We have no reason to believe
that the project is not viable and, in anticipation of this, are looking to
order or confirm key long-lead items to ensure a rapid ramp up once the
go-ahead decision has been taken.
Two of African Eagle's big advantages are, firstly, the established and
experienced team that we have on the ground in the countries in which
we operate and, secondly, the fact that the countries in which we are
based - Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique - generally have good
infrastructure and relatively mining-friendly investment regimes. One of the
benefits from the former is the number of opportunities which are brought
to us because our teams have long-standing relationships in, and
knowledge of, the area.
We place a great deal of emphasis on the professional development of
our locally-recruited people, not only to mitigate the global shortage of
mining and exploration skills, but also because we have a real interest in
the development of the countries in which we operate. That said, we are
well-resourced with both geological and technical skills and are fortunate
that many of our employees have developed a great loyalty to the Group
over a long period of time.
Much has been made in some quarters about the recent increase of
royalties and introduction of windfall taxes in Zambia. In respect of the
former, we are firmly of the view that the countries and communities
that are host to our operations need to benefit from the mineral wealth
of their countries. The royalties that are being imposed in Zambia are
not out of line with progressive mining economies elsewhere in the
world. In respect of windfall taxes, this is something that still needs to
pan out.
While our operations are currently confined to Zambia, Tanzania and
Mozambique, we have always said that we are interested in new projects
in some other SADC countries, particularly if we can acquire on-the-ground
skills at the same time. We are also conscious of the desirability of
increasing our market capitalisation to a level that will get us onto the radar
screen of institutional investors whose market capitalisation criteria for
investee companies means that they will not consider us now. Our
involvement with TWP, as it grows, may well be the catalyst for just such
an expansion of our operating and corporate foci.
Looking to the year ahead, our shareholders should continue to see
significant developments from African Eagle. Key among these are likely
to be:
  Finalisation of the Bankable Feasibility Study at Mkushi and the
expected go-ahead for this project;
  Development of a resource statement for Mokambo;
  Positive drilling results from Igurubi, Ndola and Rupa;
  Investigation of a possible listing on the Zambian Stock Exchange, which
would facilitate the entrance of local investors and partners into the
Company and perhaps provide the opportunity to work more closely with
local partners;
  Progressing African Eagle-managed copper and gold projects; and
  Expansion of our current country, commodity and operational expertise
comfort zones.
In conclusion, I would like to thank shareholders, new and old, for their
support during the year, our partners for their diligent execution of
exploration and development work on our key joint ventures, and our
employees for their ongoing contribution and loyalty to the Company.
John Park
30 April 2008
Chairman's
statement