 COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 2 Cool Chips plc - 2008 Annual Report 
Chairman's Letter to Members 
19 June 2008 
Fellow Members: 
 
Over the past year, our patents and understanding of the underlying Cool Chips  technology have 
continued to develop.  Though we have not yet raised the necessary funding to complete our efforts, in the 
past year we sourced key proprietary materials that are difficult to obtain in small quantities for research and 
development work, and continued to develop our understanding of the underlying technology.  Once we 
have obtained the required funding and we have developed functional Power Chips , we can expect Cool 
Chips to be developed in 9 to 12 months.   
 
Cool Chips are designed to be small chip-like devices that efficiently pump heat. They should not only 
replace thermoelectric (Peltier) devices, but ultimately compressors and other conventional coolers, for use 
in cooling everything from electronics to food. 
 
A key to producing functional Cool Chips is found in the Avto Metals  technology, which we publicly 
announced for the first time three summers ago. Avto Metals allows one to take an emitter, like the cathode 
found in older televisions and computer monitors, and make it work at lower temperatures. In conjunction 
with a nanometer-wide gap separating the electrodes, these temperatures are low enough to cool a computer 
chip or freeze water. 
 
Highly optimized Avto Metals are necessary for making Cool Chips. The good news is that Avto Metals are, 
in principle, quite simple. They are essentially a corrugated pattern on the surface of a thin layer of a 
material. The dimensions are rather small, and thus it took until 2005 to prove the concept. Development has 
also been slowed by more practical problems. For example, oxygen tends to react with most things, even just 
a little bit. Oxygenated layers on top of the corrugated pattern diminish and sometimes even eliminate the 
Avto effect.  So either we work with materials that do not react with oxygen at all (there are a few, but not 
many), or materials that react minimally with oxygen and thus can only be tested in a vacuum. Working in a 
vacuum is more complicated and slows things down a great deal, but it is all doable with enough time and 
resources. 
 
We do not yet know the limits of the Avto Metals theory and technology but we do not think that Avto 
Metals will prove to be simply a curiosity with limited benefits (though it might).. We are betting on Avto 
Metal s being the breakthrough that enables cryogenic Cool Chips that will be used not only for air 
conditioning but for cooling sensors and other very high value sub-zero instrumentation. 
 
The work ahead of us is focused and requires high quality and thorough laboratory research - and funding 
that has not yet been secured. We need to make and test a sizable number of samples, and continue to check 
(and if necessary, refine) the theory, and push it to its limits. It is near the limits of the Avto Metal theory 
that Cool Chips will become a product and a market reality. At that point we can start to meet the intense 
market demand and return value to our shareholders.  The fact that we have sourced the needed materials 
and expect to have them in hand in a few weeks is indeed great news, and super news if we can couple this 
with funding. 
 
We have dedicated management capable of bringing Cool Chips to market. Hans J. Walitzki, who has 
decades of experience in administration, technology management and mass manufacturing, is our Chief 
Development Officer. Dr. Walitzki has worked extensively in thin film and wafer technologies, spending 
many years with Wacker Chemitronic and later Wacker Siltronic, where he was Director of Technology. He 
founded his own company, soiTronic, Inc. in 1999 to bring new wafer technologies to the market, and 
successfully integrated his company into Isonics Corporation, becoming Vice President for Advanced  
  COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 3 Cool Chips plc - 2008 Annual Report 
Cool Chips Chairman's Letter (Continued) 
 
Wafer Technology.   Dr. Walitzki is expected to manage the final development and commercialization of 
Cool Chips. 
 
This year has shown considerable patenting activity. As of 31 March, we have 35 issued patents, and another 
48 patents pending. Of those 48 applications, 16 were filed last year.  (As always, we count only unique 
applications in this number; we don't multiply that by the number of countries in which we seek coverage.) 
We continue to ensure that we stay innovative and thereby secure what we believe is already a dominant 
patent position for thermionic coolers. 
 
In parallel, we continue to work on raising funds for development. The work represents a constant cash 
drain, and our efforts certainly have been constrained by limited resources. This problem has not been solved 
yet, and we continue to talk to potential investors and partners. We welcome any new opportunities. 
 
As always, we are very appreciative to our shareholders, who by and large, have stuck with us through thick and thin.   
We have no shame in claiming the finest shareholders in the world.  Our owners are what every company should have: 
people who believe in what this Company can achieve, and who are ready, willing and able to roll up their sleeves, help 
out where possible, and keep the heat on management.  We welcome any and all constructive criticism, and we thank 
you for your support to date. 
  
With all good wishes, 
  
Cool Chips plc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rodney T. Cox 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
  COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 4 Cool Chips plc - 2008 Annual Report 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Results 
  
We had no revenue for the year and our parent company charged us US$429,716 for management fees in 
2008, compared to US$186,335 for management fees in 2007. Of the total management fee charged in 2 008, 
development costs accounted for US$149,716.  The loss for the year was US$429,716, as compared to 
US$186,335 for 2007. 
    
Our parent company owes us US$7,460,066 compared to US$8,169,782 at the previous year-end. Until this 
year our parent paid all o ur bills and we advanced to our parent all funds raised and these are due back to us 
on demand loan, with the understanding that the parent company will be in a position to repay the loan once 
profit distributions start as expected.  Now we are being charged for our actual expenditures and some 
charge for overheads.  
  
We own 6,933,348 shares of Cool Chips Military Sales plc, which was newly formed at the end of fiscal 
2005.  We feel that we can use this company to make advanced product sales or to sell shares in this 
company to get the research and development finished for Cool Chips to go into commercial production of 
Cool Chips. 
  
Again, it seems that most businesses are entirely risk averse even with a must-have  product like Cool 
Chips.  Companies will not take any degree of risk with research unless the government is paying - and if the 
government pays for research then the company loses its largest customer as anything but a cost-plus 
customer.  We are looking to make one relatively large advanced sale of product and this should give us 
sufficient capital to get product for both military and commercial markets out the door in good order In 
addition to looking at creative ways of financing from selling licenses to selling shares in companies having 
licenses.  There is no guarantee that we will be successful, but a great deal of interest continues to be show 
in Cool Chips as no other product has arrived on the market that can perform as we expect commercial Cool 
Chips to perform.. 
 
  
  
 
Forward -Looking Statement 
 
The discussion of the Company's business and operations in this report includes in several instances 
forward-looking statements, which are based upon management's good faith assumptions relating to the 
financial, market, operating and other relevant environments that will exist and affect the Company's 
business and operations in the future.  All technical, scientific, and commercial statements regarding 
technologies and their impacts are based on the educated judgment of the Company's technical and scientific 
staff.  No assurance can be made that the assumptions upon which management based its forward-looking 
statements will prove to be correct, or that the Company's business and operations will not be affected in any 
substantial manner by other factors not currently foreseeable by management or beyond the Company's 
control. 
  
All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty.  The Company undertakes no obligation to 
publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that might be made to reflect 
the events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events; 
including those described in this report, and such statements shall be deemed in the future to be modified in 
their entirety by the Company's public pronouncements, including those contained in all future reports and 
other documents filed by the Company with the relevant Securities Commissions. 
  COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 5 Cool Chips plc - 2008 Annual Report 
 
 
 
 
COOL CHIPS 
PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
Financial Statements 
 
for the year ended 31 March 2008 
 
 