 COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 2 Cool Chips plc - 2007 Annual Report 
Chairman's Letter to Members 
20 June 2007 
Fellow Members: 
 
We have enormous demand. But we don't have product. Yet. 
 
We have been working on this technology for a dozen years, and while we know a lot more than we did, and 
we have done a great deal of work, we are not there. 
 
A key to working Cool Chips is found in the Avto Metal  technology, which we publicly announced for 
the first time two summers ago. Avto Metals allows one to take an emitter like the cathode found in older 
televisions and computer monitors and make them work at lower temperatures. In conjunction with a 
nanometer-wide gap separating the electrodes, these temperatures are low enough to cool a computer chip or 
freeze water. 
 
Highly optimized Avto Metals are necessary for making Cool Chips. The good news is that Avto Metals are, 
in principle, quite simple. Avto Metals are essentially a corrugated pattern on the surface of a thin layer of a 
material. The dimensions are rather small, which was the reason it took until 2005 to prove the concept. 
Development has also been slowed by more practical problems. For example, oxygen tends to react with 
most things, even just a little bit. Oxygenated layers on top of the corrugated pattern diminish or eliminate 
the Avto Effect.  So either we work with materials that do not react with oxygen at all (there are a few, but 
not many), or materials that react minimally with oxygen, but that can only be tested in a vacuum. Working 
in vacuum is more complicated and slows things down a lot, but it is all doable with enough time and 
resources. 
 
Over the past year, we have been working to stretch the Avto Metals theory to its limits, making a large 
number of different samples with different dimensions and characteristics and materials. We are pleased to 
report that all the experimental data continues to validate the theory - better  physical samples give us 
better emitters, while poorer  physical samples yield poorer results. We have also expanded our test work 
to show that the Avto Effect works just as well in other materials. In parallel, we have designed and built a 
new, compact and versatile enclosure for testing Cool Chips. This now patented method uses a ring-shaped 
piezo element that double functions as vacuum enclosure and gap control. 
 
The work ahead of us is focused and requires high quality and thorough laboratory research. We need to 
make and test a sizable number of samples, continuing to check (and if necessary, refine) the theory, and to 
push it to its limits. It is near the limits of the Avto Metal theory that Cool Chips will become a product and 
a market reality, and we can start to meet the intense market demand and return value to our shareholders. 
 
We have dedicated management capable of bringing Cool Chips to market. Hans J. Walitzki, who has 
decades of experience in administration, technology management and mass manufacturing, has become our 
Chief Development Officer. Dr. Walitzki has worked extensively in thin film and wafer technologies, 
spending many years with Wacker Chemitronic and later Wacker Siltronic, where he was Director of 
Technology. He founded his own company, soiTronic, Inc. in 1999 to bring new wafer technologies to the 
market, and successfully integrated his company into Isonics Corporation, becoming Vice President for 
Advanced Wafer Technology.   Dr. Walitzki is expected to manage the final development and 
commercialization of Cool Chips. 
 
And now the team is focused on optimizing the Avto Effect, both in gold (which does not react with 
oxygen), as well as in materials which are more likely to be suitable for mass-produced Cool Chips. This 
work has a lot of different technical facets and challenges, but it also has a lot of opportunities and possible 
solutions. Indeed, our biggest challenge right now is sorting out which of the possible approaches represent 
the best opportunities.  It is the kind of thing for which one is always making decisions based on limited 
information - we can look back later and see how direct a path we took. 
  COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 3 Cool Chips plc - 2007 Annual Report 
This year has shown considerably patenting activity. In addition to the twenty-two patents issued before this 
year, four patents issued this year, and an additional seventeen patent applications were filed this year. (As 
always, we only count unique applications in this number; we don't multiply that by the number of countries 
in which we seek coverage.) We continue to ensure that we stay innovative and secure what we believe is 
already a dominant patent position for low temperature thermionic coolers. 
 
In parallel, we continue to raise funds for development. The work represents a constant cash drain, and our 
efforts certainly have been constrained by limited resources. This problem has not been solved yet, and we 
continue to talk to potential investors and partners. We welcome any new opportunities. 
 
 As always, we are very appreciative to our shareholders, who by and large, have stuck with us through thick 
and thin.   We have no shame in claiming the finest shareholders in the world.  Our owners are what every 
company should have - people who believe in what this Company can achieve, and who are ready, willing 
and able to roll up their sleeves, help out where possible, and keep the heat on management.  We welcome 
any and all constructive criticism, and we graciously thank you for your support to date. The next year 
should prove very interesting as we accelerate our drive to marketable product. 
  
With all good wishes, 
  
Cool Chips plc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rodney T. Cox 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Results 
  
We had no revenue for the year and our parent company charged us US$186,335 for management fees in 
2007, compared to US$43,200 for management fees in 2006. Of the total management fee charged in 2007, 
development costs accounted for US$143,135.  The loss for the year was US$186,335, as compared to 
US$43,200 for 2006. 
    
Our parent company owes us US$8,169,782 compared to US$8,304,118 at the previous year-end. Until this 
year our parent paid all our bills and we advanced to our parent all funds raised and these are due back to us 
on demand loan, with the understanding that the parent company will be in a position to repay the loan once 
profit distributions start as expected.  Now we are being charged for our actual expenditures and some 
charge for overheads.  
  
We own 6,933,348 shares of Cool Chips Military Sales plc, which was newly formed at the end of fiscal 
2005.   
  
Again, it seems that most businesses are entirely risk averse even with a must-have product like Cool Chips.  
Companies will not take any degree of risk with research unless the government is paying - and if the 
government pays for research then the company loses its largest customer as anything but a cost-plus 
customer.  We look to make one relatively large advanced sale of product and this should give us sufficient 
capital to get product for both military and commercial markets out the door in good order. 
  
  
  COOL CHIPS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
Gibraltar Registered No. 57885 
 
                                                                                                                                 Page 4 Cool Chips plc - 2007 Annual Report 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statement 
 
The discussion of the Company's business and operations in this report includes in several instances 
forward-looking statements, which are based upon management's good faith assumptions relating to the 
financial, market, operating and other relevant environments that will exist and affect the Company's 
business and operations in the future.  All technical, scientific, and commercial statements regarding 
technologies and their impacts are based on the educated judgment of the Company's technical and scientific 
staff.  No assurance can be made that the assumptions upon which management based its forward-looking 
statements will prove to be correct, or that the Company's business and operations will not be affected in any 
substantial manner by other factors not currently foreseeable by management or beyond the Company's 
control. 
  
All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty.  The Company undertakes no obligation to 
publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that might be made to reflect 
the events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events; 
including those described in this report, and such statements shall be deemed in the future to be modified in 
their entirety by the Company's public pronouncements, including those contained in all future reports and 
other documents filed by the Company with the relevant Securities Commissions. 