 Corin Group PLC
Annual Report 2004
06
Results
After two years of very rapid growth, 2004 was a year in which we invested heavily 
in the business both in terms of strengthening of the management, and the Group's
overall infrastructure. This will provide us with a solid platform for the next stage of 
our development. We have secured a strong position in a number of key European
markets and are now poised to exploit our premier proprietary products in the USA,
the world's largest orthopaedics market. 
Annual sales for 2004 grew from  24.0 million to  25.6 million, an increase of 7%. At
Constant Exchange Rates (CER) underlying sales grew by 9%. In our core domestic
UK market, sales continued to grow strongly increasing by 20% from  7.3 million to
 8.8 million, well above the single figure overall market growth. The performance in
Germany was also reasonably strong as a result of the Group gaining market share
with its proprietary products. A 14% decline in sales in Japan (our third largest market)
had a significant adverse effect and inevitably restrained overall Group sales growth. 
As in prior years, our focus on metal on metal hips and mobile bearing knees has
driven our revenue worldwide. Cormet sales grew by 33% to  6.4 million, whilst our 
knee portfolio sales increased by 11%, to  8.5 million.
Group operating profit grew to  5.3 million, an increase of 14%, with gross margin
increased from 68% to 72%. This was a very satisfactory outcome as we faced
increasing pricing pressure both from suppliers and customers. At CER, Group
Operating Profit increased by 20%. Profit before tax in the year increased by 14%, 
to  5.2 million. Earnings per share increased by 17% to 9.10 p, compared to 7.81p 
in 2003.
T o reflect the Group's growth, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 
0.9p per share (2003 0.8p per share) making a full year dividend of 1.38p per 
share (2003 1.2p per share), an increase of 15%.
Operational highlights
58% of total revenues in 2004 arose from sales of our proprietary metal on metal 
hips and mobile bearing knees. These groups of devices now have extensive 
clinical track records, dating back to 1989 for our mobile bearing total knee and 
1992 for our metal on metal resurfacing hip. Our early entrance in these fields 
provides us with a significant competitive advantage as the drive towards 
evidence based medicine accelerates. 
In addition to the successful growth of our proprietary products around the world, 
we continued to develop new products, product extensions and to initiate a number
of innovative ventures. 
In September 2004 we launched, in Europe, the Uniglide unicondylar knee. This
device offers both cemented and cementless options and can be implanted as either
a mobile or fixed bearing. The Uniglide offers a unique conservative treatment option
for early stage arthritis of the knee and, as such, further strengthens the focus of our
knee portfolio on the young, active arthritic patient. 
We also signed a collaborative arrangement with Endo Plus UK (now Plus
Orthopaedics UK). The collaboration allows for promotion and sale in the UK of 
Corin's large diameter modular metal on metal articulation in combination with the
Endo Plus cementless hip system, SL Plus. This collaboration will assist surgeons 
to make the transfer from conventional, small diameter, metal on polyethylene hip
systems to a large diameter metal on metal resurfacing hip system.
In the area of spinal reconstruction, spinal disc replacement (total or partial) will
become increasingly important for both spinal surgeons and, for the cervical region, 
neuro surgeons. Corin is developing two spinal disc devices, one for the cervical spine
and the other for the lumbar spine.
In October 2004 we announced that we were in very early stage discussions with 
a potential acqirer and subsequently reported that the discussions had ceased. 
In the intervening period we observed nervousness amongst some of our customers
in traditionally strong export markets which led to a temporary shortfall in sales in 
the fourth quarter. 
Management
In 2004 we have both consolidated and strengthened our management team in 
order to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead. In particular we have
further developed our middle management team in key areas such as product
development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer service. There 
is a solidity of both Group and industry knowledge which will prove to be very
important as we drive forward to achieve our goals. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees, new and long-serving
alike, for their dedication to Corin and their flexibility to help us to prosper in this highly
competitive market place.
Chairman's 
statement
The baby boomer
generation has
reached an age
where hip and 
knee replacements
are increasingly
becoming a
necessity in order
for them to
maintain their
quality of life. 07
Strategy
Over the last two years we have steadily reduced our involvement in the non core
areas of spine and trauma which are dominated by generic devices, with little product
differentiation opportunity. This has allowed us to focus the majority of our resources
on devices which meet the needs of the demanding young, active arthritic patient.
The baby boomer generation has reached an age where hip and knee replacements
are increasingly becoming a necessity in order for them to maintain their quality of 
life. Our recent strategy has been to concentrate Corin's resources on meeting the
demanding needs of this group of patients. 
Our metal on metal hip portfolio and our extensive range of mobile bearing knees
provide clinically proven solutions for the arthritic baby boomer. We have invested
considerable resources, particularly in the areas of product development, research,
manufacturing and marketing, to ensure that we retain technological leadership in
these key areas of our business.
Our geographical strategy has been to migrate sales from indirect distributor sales 
to direct to customer sales in the major orthopaedic markets worldwide. During 2004
we set up a direct subsidiary in Australia, to build on the third party distribution base
that already existed. Australia has been a particularly strong market for acceptance 
of the concepts of metal on metal hips and mobile bearing knees and was therefore
an obvious addition to our portfolio of direct overseas sales operations. We now 
have direct subsidiaries in the vast majority of the largest territories for orthopaedic
sales worldwide. 
The USA opportunity
At present our major proprietary devices (Cormet, Optimom, Rotaglide+ and Uniglide)
are not available for sale in the USA, as they have not yet received regulatory approval
from the FDA. The Board anticipates that during 2006 all four of these highly proprietary
devices will be approved by the FDA for sale to the US market. Cormet will be the
subject of a Pre Market Approval (PMA) Application and we anticipate using the
clinical results on Cormet to gain approval for Optimom, our large diameter stemmed
metal on metal hip.
During early 2004 an FDA panel recommended a down-classification of the regulatory
status of both uni-condylar and total condylar mobile bearing knees. We anticipate
that the Group's Rotaglide+ and Uniglide knee systems will fall under this proposed
down classification and gain approval accordingly. The USA accounts for over 50% 
of orthopaedic sales throughout the world and the anticipated FDA approvals of 
these four core devices in 2006 will thus allow the Group to access a significantly
larger worldwide market than has previously been available.
In late March 2005 we submitted a PMA to the FDA for our metal on metal resurfacing
hip, Cormet. Our submission was based on data collected in a clinical trial conducted
in the USA according to the stringent FDA protocols. Although not part of the FDA
requirements, we also have extensive European clinical data on our metal on metal
resurfacing device dating back to 1991. This gives Corin the longest clinical pedigree
in this rapidly expanding area of orthopaedics.
We are confident that there is a substantial latent demand amongst US surgeons 
to access metal on metal resurfacing technology for their baby boomer patients who 
are looking to maintain their quality of life. If approval is granted by the FDA we will be
one of only two or three companies who will be in a position to exploit this opportunity
over the next few years. We are delighted to have achieved the demanding timeline
we set ourselves in 2004. We will continue our aggressive investment programme to
ensure we are in a position to take full advantage of the anticipated FDA approval.
Current trading and outlook
Our efforts and resources during 2005 are, and will remain, very firmly focused 
on ensuring that we have the necessary infrastructure in place to optimise the
opportunity, particularly in the USA, for our proprietary devices following anticipated
FDA approval, in 2006. We will continue to invest in this infrastructure to support
future growth. 
In the first quarter of 2005 we have seen continued good growth of our four core
proprietary devices albeit that our growth in the USA with these devices has been
constrained until the relevant regulatory approvals are received. Sales of some of 
our generic products have inevitably declined as we focus all our efforts on our
proprietary devices. At the end of Quarter 1 trading is in line with our expectations.
G M Hart
Chairman
8 April 2005  