 Enabling active
people to 
remain active
by developing 
ground-breaking
techniques 
Solution
Cormet hip resurfacing 
Resurfacing of the hip allows for conservative treatment by reshaping 
the femoral head, rather than removing and replacing it, and creating 
a metal on metal articulation with a metallic acetabular cup. Corin
pioneered this procedure in 1991 and has since developed Cormet, 
the most comprehensive metal on metal resurfacing hip available. 
The use of Cormet potentially offers significant advantages compared 
to conventional T otal Hip Replacement. The surgery is more conservative,
the implant potentially offers greater longevity and the patient can
achieve a greater range of motion, allowing the possibility of a return 
to a more normal lifestyle.
In action 
Alan Kelly
Following a football injury, Alan Kelly had become less active over 
a period of years, until weight gain and a general feeling of tiredness 
and lack of motivation prompted him to reassess his lifestyle. 
The result was his first ever visit to a gym at the age of 47 where he
started working out four times a week, including weights, circuits and
aerobics. This led to an increasing involvement in other sports - he
has completed three half marathons, has become a keen hill walker,
and takes part in Dragon Boat racing. 
It was thus a particular blow when, four years ago, he started
experiencing shooting pains in his right leg. What he originally believed
was a trapped nerve was eventually diagnosed as arthritis in his hip.
At the age of 56, the prospect of a conventional hip replacement,
which would place limits on future sporting activities and would
eventually need replacing itself was not attractive, so Alan looked for
alternatives. Hip Resurfacing, a relatively new technique developed 
by Corin, seemed to offer a real alternative.
As Alan says, The most important thing for me was to regain 
my mobility, and that is why I made the decision to ask for 
Cormet hip resurfacing .
After years of increasing pain and decreasing mobility, the initial
aftermath of the operation was extremely positive. The most obvious
result was the lack of pain!  he recalls. Within weeks I had got back 
in the gym, but have avoided high impact activities for the moment .
I have a firm conviction that by choosing the Cormet hip resurfacing 
I will be able to achieve my main aim, which is a return to a high activity
level, with the added bonus of being pain free under normal circumstances.
I don't believe any other procedure offered me this prospect .
Diagnosis
Hip replacement
Pain and functional limitations are the principal indications for hip
replacement. Pain from an arthritic hip is often experienced in the groin
and buttock and is aggravated by activity, with night pain particularly
distressing to patients. Conventional T otal Hip Replacement (THR) is 
one of the most successful and cost effective interventions in medicine,
offering pain relief and improvement in function in patients suffering
with osteoarthritis or inflammatory (rheumatoid) arthritis of the hip, 
as well as deformities of the joint. 
T otal Hip Replacement is primarily carried out in people aged 60 or 
over, and may not be recommended for younger patients, because 
their higher activity levels are likely to result in premature wear and
replacement of their implants. In these cases an alternative treatment
solution is necessary. 16
Corin Group PLC 
Annual Report 2005
Restoring quality of life
Board of directors and advisers
Ian Paling BMet (Hons) MMet
Chief Executive Officer
Age 54 - Joined Corin 1994
Ian was previously Managing Director of Thornton Precision Forgings
Ltd (Bromsgrove Industries PLC) and Managing Director of PCC (UK)
Ltd (formerly Centaur Cast Alloys Ltd). He is a Companion Fellow 
of the British Orthopaedic Association. He is responsible for all
operational aspects of the business.
Simon Hartley BSc (Hons) ACA
Finance Director
Age 45 - Joined Corin 1997
Simon is a chartered accountant and was previously Group Finance
Director of Arabis PLC and Group Finance Director of Ferry Pickering
Group PLC. He is responsible for the overall control of the finance
function, including reporting of management accounts, management 
of working capital and participation in strategic planning. He is also
Company Secretary.
Graeme Hart MB BS DRCOG FRCS
Non-executive Chairman
Age 61 - Joined Corin 2001
Graeme works as an orthopaedic surgeon, based in Hertfordshire 
and London. He is an honorary consultant to the NW Herts NHS Trust.
He is a non-executive director of Huntleigh T echnology PLC, SOC
Group Plc and Evolutec Plc and he was also formerly Chairman of
Health Care Services PLC and Cresta Care PLC. He is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee 
and a member of the Audit Committee.
Linda Wilding BSc (Hons) PhD ACA
Non-executive Director
Age 47 - Joined Corin 2006
Linda has a biochemistry PhD and trained as a chartered accountant
with Ernst & Young. She worked for 12 years at Mercury Asset
Management including being a managing director in the Private Equity
Division. She is Chairman of Sanctuary Holdings Limited. Linda is the
Senior Independent Director on the Board and the Chairman of the
Audit Committee. She is also a member of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees.
Company registration number
2923528
Registered office
The Corinium Centre
Cirencester
Gloucestershire
GL7 1YJ
www.coringroup.com
Directors
G M Hart (Non-executive Chairman)
I H Paling (Chief Executive Officer)
S J Hartley (Finance Director)
L Wilding (Non-executive Director)
Secretary
S J Hartley
Chartered accountants
& Registered Auditors
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
Kings Wharf
20-30 Kings Road
Reading 
Berkshire
RG1 3EX
Financial advisers
Piper Jaffray Ltd
18 King William Street
London
EC4N 7US
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Commercial
PO Box 112
Canons House
Canons Way
Bristol
BS99 7LB
Solicitors
CMS Cameron McKenna
Mitre House
160 Aldersgate Street
London
EC1A 4DD
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU 17
Corin Group PLC 
Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
The directors present their report together with consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities and review of the business
The Group is principally engaged in the manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic devices on a worldwide basis. These
activities and the future development of the Group are reviewed in the Chairman' s Statement and the Operating and
Financial Review.
Results and dividends for the year
The profit for the year after taxation and minority interests amounted to  2,307,000 (2004:  3,447,000). On 4 November 2005,
an interim dividend of  197,000 was paid. The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend to the ordinary
shareholders of  369,000 making  566,000 in total for the year (2004:  558,000).
Research and development
The Group has a commitment to research and development to ensure it retains its competitive position in the market.
Charitable donations
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to  49,225 (2004:  37,620).
Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Group' s policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the
operating companies in the Group and their suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 31 December 2005, the Group had an average of 76 days (2004: 72 days) purchases outstanding in trade creditors. 
The Company does not have any significant trade creditors and is, therefore, unable to produce any meaningful creditor
information for this purpose.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where a handicapped or disabled
person can adequately fulfil the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group' s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees
wherever appropriate.
Employee involvement
During the year , the policy of providing employees with information about the Group has been continued through presentations.
Regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business through the Group' s profit sharing schemes and are
encouraged to invest in the Group through participation in share option schemes.
Financial Instruments
Information about the use of financial instruments by the company and its subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in note 19. 18
Corin Group PLC 
Annual Report 2005
Restoring quality of life
Report of the directors
continued
Directors
The present membership of the Board, together with biographical details, is set out on page 16. L Wilding was appointed 
on 12 January 2006 to replace W S C Richards O.B.E. who retired on 12 January 2006. 
L Wilding was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2006 and is required to offer herself for election at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. G M Hart will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, 
will offer himself for re-election.
The interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company as at 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005,
or the date of appointment to the Board if later, as recorded in the register maintained by the Company in accordance with
the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, were as set out below. Except as shown below, none of the directors had any
interest in the shares of other companies in the Group.
At At
31 December 1 January 
2005 2005
Ordinary shares of 2.5p: number number
G M Hart 552,554 552,554
S J Hartley 81,955 86,955
I H Paling 240,654 244,954
W S C Richards 565,315 565,315
  All of the interests are beneficial.
  Since the year end I H Paling has increased his shareholding by exercising his option to acquire 8,129 ordinary shares
granted under the Corin Group PLC Save As You Earn Scheme (SAYE scheme).
  Details of share options granted to the directors are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
It is the responsible of the company secretary to ensure appropriate insurance cover is maintained in respect of legal actions
against the directors. 
Major interests in shares
As at 31 March 2006, the Company had been notified in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985
of the following interests in the Company' s share capital:
Ordinary
shares Holding
number %
Schroders Plc 8,543,033 20.83
Fidelity Investment Services Ltd 5,631,718 13.73
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 2,832,450 6.91
Artemis Investment Management Ltd 1,710,288 4.17
Hermes Administration Services Limited 1,288,935 3.14
F & C Asset Management Plc 1,237,821 3.02