  
Chairman's Statement
Corin generated strong growth in the second half 
of 2011, led by the Group's new hip products.  
The strategic shift away from metal-on-metal 
(MoM ) implants to a wider hip portfolio, as well 
as the development of a new knee product, has 
continued.
Group sales increased by 12% to  47.9m (2010: 
 42.9m), representing growth of 9% on a constant 
currency basis. The growth of the new hip products 
more than offset the continuing industry-wide 
decline in MoM hip products, resulting in overall hip 
sales growth of 41% on a constant currency basis. 
Stocking orders of hip implants and instruments 
to MAKO Surgical Corp. (MAKO ) contributed 
substantially to this jump in growth. Underlying 
constant currency sales growth in hips was a very 
encouraging 29%, excluding sales to MAKO and 
sales of MoM hips.  MoM sales are now only 5% of 
Group sales.
Corin's mature knee product portfolio continued to 
decline and, following three years of strong growth, 
there was a downturn in sales of the distributed 
LARS product in Australia.
Operating profit from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items, was  2.5m (2010:  2.5m).  
Operating profit was  2.0m (2010:  1.5m).  The 
Group's Chinese operations were closed during 
the year and made a loss after tax and exceptional 
items of  1.0m, leading to a reported loss for 
the Group after taxation, exceptional items and 
discontinued operations of  0.3m (2010:  0.4m). 
Further good progress was made in implementing 
the Group's strategy to broaden the portfolio of hip 
and knee products. A key strategic milestone was 
recently achieved, with the completion of the first 
evaluation surgeries of the new Unity total knee 
system. Full commercial launch is expected in the 
first half of 2013, following an extensive programme 
of evaluation during 2012.
A number of important steps were taken in 2011 
to build Corin's presence in the US market. The 
remaining FDA regulatory clearances for the 
Group's Trinity  cup system were achieved in May, 
allowing the new cementless hip portfolio to be 
fully rolled out in the US. Corin also commenced 
supply of its new hip products to MAKO, for use 
with their robotic orthopaedic system. Critical mass 
was added to the US business with the direct 
distribution of Cormet , following the termination 
of the Cormet  distribution agreement with 
Stryker Corporation in July. Corin added additional 
resource to its US business to help develop its own 
direct distribution network and support services. 
The Board, having considered the cash 
requirements of the business needed to support 
growth, the level of borrowings and the cost of 
continuing to pay dividends has decided that it is 
in the Group's best interests not to recommend the 
payment of a final dividend. The Board will continue 
to monitor closely its policy in relation to dividends 
with a view to potentially resuming dividends when 
the current investment phase is complete. 
Board changes
After 11 years on the Board, eight of these as 
Chairman, I have decided to retire at the Annual 
General Meeting in June this year. With the 
recent strategic repositioning of the Group largely 
completed, I believe I will be stepping aside with 
the Group following a clear plan to drive growth 
from our portfolio of hip and knee products. 
I am delighted that Linda Wilding, the current 
senior Non executive director and a member 
of the Board since 2006, will step up to the 
Chairman role following my retirement.
 
Michael Roller has indicated his intention to resign 
as Finance Director.  Michael has played a leading 
role in broadening Corin's hip and knee strategy 
over the last three years. The search for a new 
Finance Director is underway.  While we are sorry 
to be losing him, we look forward to a smooth 
transition to his successor during the summer.
Current trading and outlook
The Group has made a strong start to the current 
financial year.  Good growth in the hip portfolio is 
being experienced across the majority of markets 
with continued progress in the Group's direct 
sales operation in the US.  The UK and Germany 
are improving, although sales of LARS  in 
Australia continue to decline.
The Board remains cautious on the full year 
outcome at this stage, particularly ahead of the 
results of the LARS  reimbursement review in 
10  
Australia and until the sales profile is clearer for 
MAKO in the US, following its large initial stocking 
orders last year.
The success of Corin's strategy to rebalance 
the portfolio away from MoM hips can be 
seen in the growth of the hip portfolio and the 
declining proportion of sales from distributed 
products.  With the evaluation surgeries on the 
new Unity Knee  now having commenced, the 
Group is well positioned to continue its strategic 
development based on a leading portfolio of hip 
products and its new knee system.
G M Hart
Chairman
8 March 2012
* Constant currency is calculated by translating 
the 2010 results at the average exchange rates 
used for the 2011 results - see note 33.
**  Exceptional items are detailed in note 31.
Continuing operating profit 
before exceptional items
Continuing earnings per share 
before exceptional items
2011 2010 2009
2.96p
1.41p
2.52p
2010 2009
 2.5m
 2.1m
 2.5m
2011
Annual Report  2011
Corin Group PLC
11 12 Collaboration with Research Institutes
The bearing surfaces of joint replacement 
prostheses can be formed from a range of 
biocompatible materials, including metals, 
hard wearing (but often expensive) ceramics or 
advanced polyethylenes. For many years the 
surgeon community has debated the balance 
between hip bearing stability and wear rates for 
polyethylene acetabular liners. Driving advances 
over the years, attention and research has shifted 
from ultra high molecular weight polyethylene 
(UHMWPE) to highly cross-linked polyethylene 
(HXLPE) and, most recently, to vitamin E-enriched 
polyethylene.
In collaboration with Massachusetts General 
Hospital (MGH), Corin has worked on the 
development and commercialisation of a next-
generation vitamin E polyethylene. The result, 
ECiMa , is a cold irradiated, mechanically 
annealed,  -tocopherol (vitamin E) blended 
UHMWPE. The most advanced polyethylene 
of its kind, ECiMa  has been developed to 
maintain mechanical properties, minimise wear 
and improve oxidation resistance in the long term. 
Dr Orhun K Muratoglu, Co-Director of the Harris 
Orthopedic Laboratory, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, explains.
Whilst UHMWPE remains a widely used bearing 
in total joint replacement, wear-induced osteolysis 
(bone resorption) remains a concern as it 
necessitates revision surgery. First generation, 
irradiated and remelted HXLPE materials were 
introduced to address this issue, helping to 
alleviate the problem of osteolysis. Whilst results 
have been good, concerns exist regarding the 
changes in bulk material property and oxidation 
after implantation. Cross-linking is achieved 
by radiation, which also results in residual free 
radicals. These free radicals are responsible 
for oxidation and embrittlement of polyethylene 
components, both on the shelf and in patients. 
First generation highly cross-linked polyethylenes 
were processed in one of two main ways in an 
attempt to prevent the material from oxidising 
and degrading over time. Both of these methods 
had limitations in terms of limiting the mechanical 
integrity of the material and not preventing long- 
term oxidation, and as a result these polyethylenes 
showed very high levels of oxidation inside the 
body in less than five years.
Working closely with the research and 
development team at Corin, the next natural step 
for our laboratory was to further improve on the 
existing technology to obtain higher strength and 
fatigue resistance along with low wear and low 
oxidation. ECiMa  is irradiated for cross-linking 
and reduction in wear, followed by mechanical 
deformation to anneal or quench the free radicals 
ECiMa  next generation vitamin E technology
responsible for oxidation. In addition, ECiMa  
contains an antioxidant, vitamin E, which protects 
it against any oxidative attack inside the body. As it 
is not remelted after irradiation, ECiMa  retains its 
mechanical properties.
Vitamin E actively protects the component from 
oxidation. This active protection is unlike the first
generation technology, which relied on initially 
reducing/eliminating the free radical burden to 
impart oxidative stability. The fluid found inside 
joints in the body contains potential oxidisers, such 
as lipids, that can be absorbed over time during 
in vivo use, challenging the oxidative stability of 
the component. The vitamin E contained within 
ECiMa  continuously combats these oxidisers 
and keeps the component oxidatively stable.  
ECiMa  is one of the most advanced 
polyethylenes of its kind, providing a high 
performance alternative to hard bearings. In a 
process designed to avoid the negative impact of 
thermal remelting and increase material strength, 
ECiMa  delivers a biocompatible, ultra low wear, 
large bearing solution.
Orhun K  Muratoglu, PhD
Co-Director, Harris Orthopedic Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital
Dr Muratoglu received his PhD from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1995 
and joined the Harris Orthopedic Laboratory at MGH in the same year. He has been 
the Co-Director of the lab since 2004. His research interests are primarily in the area of 
understanding the failure mechanisms of polyethylenes and developing technologies to 
address these failure modes.
Responsible Innovation in practice
Annual Report  2011
Corin Group PLC
13