 The hotel industry has experienced one
of its toughest periods in recent times.
In the years preceding 2004 the industry
went through a number of severe and
unrelenting challenges stemming from
the foot and mouth disease outbreak
and the tragedy of 9/11 in 2001, and 
in 2003 the war in Iraq and the SARS
outbreak. The lucrative long haul
markets have been adversely affected by
these events which were made worse by
the strengthening of the Sterling Pound
against the US Dollar.
On the brighter side, VisitBritain launched a
campaign in the spring of 2003 focussing on
England's countryside and heritage, encouraging the
British people to rediscover England for a holiday or
a short break. The strengthening of the Euro against
the Pound and the increasing number of low-cost air
routes into London and regional cities also helped to
establish Britain as a short break destination for
European travellers.
The Beverley Arms Hotel, Beverley
Chairman's statement
Corus Hotels Report and Accounts
2003
page
2 Summary of 2003 Performance 
Corus Hotels plc achieved sales of  115.1m 
(2002 -  130.2m) and a profit after tax but before
exceptional items of  1.4m (2002 -  1.7m) in the
face of these challenging trading conditions and in
spite of the sale of nine hotels in 2003, which
affected the top revenue lines and the contribution
to the profit level. 
The REVPAR (Revenue Per Available Room) declined
modestly in 2003 reflecting the lack of business
travel demand. However, increased occupancy at
most hotels was achieved by aggressively promoting
weekend leisure breaks at competitive prices. 
The Group continued to focus on increasing
awareness of its Corus brand and positioning itself as
a leading mid-market hotel group in the U.K. The
growth of the Corus brand is seen as vital to the
future success of the group. Since its launch in 1998,
it has made only a minor impact on the hotel sector
and in 2003 the Group stepped up its efforts to
develop a strong brand. Three hotels were hard
branded as Corus hotels in 2003; the Plaza on Hyde
Park, Central London to Corus hotel Hyde Park,
Honiley Court to Corus hotel Warwick and the
Madison Inn to Corus hotel Swindon. A further 11
hotels are planned to be hard branded in 2004. We
will gain benefits of the Corus brand through a
strategy to increase customer awareness of the brand
and meet the changing expectations of customers.
Hotels that have limited potential to be upgraded to
meet the Corus brand standards are being
progressively divested. As part of the divestment
programme nine hotels were sold in 2003 in
achieving aggregate proceeds in excess of the recent
appraised value.
Capital Investment Programme
Of the 400 rooms in Corus hotel Hyde Park, 192 were
recently refurbished to a four star standard including
79 rooms that were designed and refurbished to the
Laura Ashley appointment. In 2003 a capital
investment programme was embarked upon at a
cost of  4.2 million to refurbish the remaining 208
rooms to a refreshing and functional design to meet
the comforts and needs of the business traveller. 
A dedicated team was formed in September 2003 to
specialise in carrying out internal soft refurbishment to
existing hotel guest rooms. Since that date 73 rooms
were successfully completed by the end of 2003
resulting in significant cost savings. This process will be
continued in 2004 with specific focus on key properties
such as the Maids Head Hotel Norwich, Brownsover
Hall Hotel Rugby and Corus hotel Bedford. 
Planning permission has been successfully acquired
for 54 additional guest rooms for Hall Garth Hotel,
Darlington and 50 guest rooms for Plough and
Harrow, Birmingham and currently we are awaiting
the outcome of four further applications for a total of
151 additional rooms in the hotels at Bedford,
Windermere, Cannock and Rugby.  
Hotels are continually being identified for future
expansion and development of guest facilities
where there is a potential to generate additional
revenue. 
Tewkesbury Park Hotel Golf and Country Club, Tewkesbury
Caring and 
enthusiastic
Corus Hotels Report and Accounts
2003
page
3 Food and Beverage 
This area of the business has been subjected to
severe pressure in 2003 from increased competition
and keen competitor pricing. As a consequence,
margins on both food and beverage products have
been affected in an effort to maintain covers. 
However, in 2003 we have persevered with our
efforts to achieve better operational controls, menu
design and improvements in the supply chain. 
Health and hygiene standards have always remained
a priority in our hotels and consequently we have
improved on the already high scores we achieved
the previous year, as measured by external
consultants. Sales initiatives have continued to be
strongly supported by creative point of sale material
developed in partnership with our key suppliers.
In 2003 the focus was directed at each hotel to
develop local food and beverage business and in
particular the wedding and conference packages.
Corus hotels aims to grow food and beverage
revenues through increased volume of weddings,
meetings and events and sleeper/diners within
strategically identified market locations.
Information Technology 
The IT department upgraded the wide area network
to provide a more stable platform to service the
growing business requirements of the group.  
The ongoing replacement of hardware to improve
the quality of service to customers was rolled out 
during 2003.
The Company has continued to invest in Electronic
Point of Sale equipment to maximize revenue
capture, optimize yield and improve the quality 
and timeliness of information available for 
decision making. 
In 2004 Corus Hotels will further enhance its IT
systems by upgrading its centralised accounting
system and interfacing it with the hotel based
Property Management Systems (PMS) and its Central
Inventory Management system. It also plans to
implement an e-commerce catering databank to
maximize the food and beverage product yield.
Human Resources
During 2003, Corus hotels launched its Employer
Branding initiative under the title of  Talentspotting'.
The aim of this scheme was to raise the profile of the
brand as an employer of choice. In conjunction with
this initiative, training programmes have been
developed to increase the skills level of our employees
and deliver the brand promise to our customers.
In 2003 Corus hotels led the industry in launching
the Chef School programme, which has got the
sector talking.  The initiative was launched as a
strategy to overcome the growing problem of skills
shortages in the industry. Since its launch it has seen
18 new apprentice chefs join the Group in 2003
working in partnership with the Hotel & Catering
Training Company to achieve a National Vocational
Qualification.  This new initiative has resulted in
good public relations coverage for the group
including a mention on BBC Radio 2.  Chef
School will continue into 2004 with the aim of
Corus hotel Swindon
Hotels with
personality
Corus Hotels Report and Accounts
2003
page
4 recruiting a chef school candidate in every 
Corus hotel.
Before the hotels are hard branded, all team
members are taken through a comprehensive
programme of Brand Awareness training to ensure
that they fully understand the importance of the
brand and the role they play in delivering the brand
message.  In addition this is followed up with
Mission Possible the Group's customer service
training programme.
The Company will continue to develop employees at
various levels, to enable them to better deliver the
appropriate performance required to support brand
and operating standards.
Sales and Marketing
Tactical activities which included national
advertising, loyalty programmes and mailing
campaigns were used in 2003 to counteract the
impact of adverse geopolitical events to our business. 
Emphasis was placed on growing the e-marketing
channel to further develop the Company's website
www.corushotels.com to generate more revenue
each month, which has resulted in doubling the
revenue over the previous year.  
In 2003 we took a conscious decision to drive
volume at the expense of rate in order to protect our
market share. This has resulted in a 2.8% growth in
occupancy and a decrease in ARR by  1.47 in 2003
compared with the previous year. 
In 2004 we are aiming to maintain occupancy and
grow rate through increasing sales to the corporate
and conference sectors, developing web distribution
channels, driving more local corporate sales and
developing sports and association markets during
weak demand periods.  
A critical success factor is the launch of our GDS
chain code (CL) in July 2004. 
Environmental Policy
Corus Hotels plc recognizes its responsibility to
conserve the use of energy and as part of the group's
environmental policy it is committed to the use of
 green energy'.  The initiatives introduced have
contributed to cost savings to the Group.
Business Outlook
There is the fear of terrorism, a global phenomenon
that must be viewed as a threat to the hospitality
and leisure industry. However, the UK economy
seems to be holding up despite the troubles afflicting
Brownsover Hall Hotel, Rugby
We always try to 
exceed
our customers expectations
Corus Hotels Report and Accounts
2003
page
5 most of the world. There is a growing sense of
optimism in the industry with indications of recovery
in the corporate sector and we have strategies in
place to grow ARR and yield as the national and
global economies continue to improve.  
Our Thanks
We acknowledge that our employees are a valuable
asset in our business and I would like to express my
appreciation to our staff and management who have
given their commitment and continued efforts in
what has turned out to be a more difficult year for
the industry.  I would also like to recognize the
continued support given by our customers, bankers
and suppliers.
Dr Khoo Kay Peng
Chairman
The Potters Heron Hotel, Romsey
We all
take pride
in whatever we do
Corus Hotels Report and Accounts
2003
page
6