 02 Cosalt:plc Report and accounts 2006
Chairman and Chief Executive's statement
Chairman and 
Chief Executive's statement
Introduction
These financial statements reflect, for the first time, the
International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) adopted
in the EU and the prior period information included in these
results has been re-stated on a comparable basis. 
Group turnover for the 52 weeks to 29 October 2006 
was  124.00 million, compared with  117.64 million for
the 52 weeks ended 30 October 2005. Profit before tax
was  1.91 million (2005: loss of  841,000) after charging
 1.21 million of exceptional costs and after taking credit
for  1.12 million of exceptional property profit and
revaluation. Earnings per share on continuing operations
were 12.43p (2005: negative 6.58p).
These results reflect the continued strong performance 
in Marine Safety and early stages of recovery in the 
trading of Holiday Homes, but disappointing results from
Protective Clothing (Cosalt:Ballyclare) as a result of the
lower than anticipated order intake and delays in the
planned move of the supply chain to the Far East.
Dividends
The Group's prospects are improving, recently reinforced
by the acquisition, on 27 December 2006, of the Marine
Safety Division of the Bofort Group which has strategically
important businesses in Germany, the Netherlands,
Belgium and Italy.
We are becoming a focused
business. This is a period of
change - from our diversified
activities to a specialist
service provider focused 
on global growth markets. Acquisition and Placing
Subsequent to the year end we completed the acquisition 
of the Marine Safety Division of Bofort Group for a
consideration of  12 million in cash, which was funded
from the Group's existing bank facilities. This business,
headquartered in Belgium, is involved in the supply,
maintenance and testing of marine safety equipment with
operations in Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy.
We also announced the successful Placing of 663,758
new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 256 pence
per share, raising approximately  1.7 million. The
proceeds of the Placing were used to strengthen the
Company's balance sheet and provide the Company with
greater flexibility in pursuing further acquisition
opportunities.
Financing and pensions
We have continued to manage our cash well and gearing
at the year end was in line with management expectations
at 45% (2005: 42%). This has increased subsequent to 
the year end following the acquisition of Bofort.
The Group's defined benefits pension scheme has been
closed to future accrual from 31 December 2006, with
active members being transferred into a stakeholder
defined contribution plan. 
03 Cosalt:plc Report and accounts 2006
>> Focusing on personal safety and protection services
The Board is therefore pleased to recommend an
unchanged final dividend of 12.75p per ordinary share,
resulting in the total dividend for the year being maintained 
at 18.75p.
Group strategy
Our vision is to become a leading European supplier 
and through life manager of critical safety equipment for
people exposed to hostile environments. This is a bold
undertaking that may require further acquisitions, which
will be considered according to a number of strict criteria.
We have taken an important first step towards delivering
on our vision by acquiring the Marine Safety Division of the
Bofort Group. This acquisition complements our market
leading UK Marine Safety business and gives us an
important presence in Rotterdam, Antwerp and Hamburg,
three of the top ten ports worldwide, as well as in Italy's
leading cruise ship ports. Cosalt is now the market leader
in Marine Safety servicing in the EU and we are already
working closely with the Bofort team to ensure that we
maximise potential synergies.
Succession
The transition of control from Bill Wood to Per Jonsson has
been well managed and we will continue to benefit from
Bill's 35 years of experience with the Group through to his
retirement from full-time employment on 31 December 2007 .
Following his appointment, Per has started actioning 
the strategic review undertaken during the year which 
will result in a more focused business with a wider
geographical spread, both at home and abroad. 04 Cosalt:plc Report and accounts 2006
Chairman and Chief Executive's statement continued
The acquisition of Bofort has given us access to a
combined network of Marine Safety businesses based in
the key ports of Europe. Bofort's business is predominantly
service based providing us with an opportunity to increase
turnover and profits using our successful UK business model
to sell a broad range of products. We have just completed
a record year for rope sales and this activity in particular
will benefit from our expanded European network. In Bofort
we also have an expanding lifeboat service capability in the
port of Antwerp and a well established fire safety servicing
business. Bofort's business expertise and experience in
these two activities will be used to develop opportunities 
in the other countries in which we now operate as well 
as supporting Cosalt's UK activities.
Another important area of opportunity arising from the
acquisition is the expansion of management contracts for
marine safety products, where service support can now be
offered to existing and new customers across the whole
network in the expanding shipping and cruise markets.
Protective Clothing
Turnover was  18.84 million (2005:  18.39 million) which
resulted in an operating loss of  496,000 (2005: profit of
 572,000) pre exceptional items.
Cosalt:Ballyclare has performed well below plan in the 
year due to poor pricing management, an incomplete 
shift of manufacturing overseas and an overly complex
business model. We remain committed to this business
because of its obvious fit with our vision and its size
advantage compared to its UK competitors. We changed
leadership in October 2006, provided process redesign
expertise and merged the Cosalt:Ballyclare legal entity with
our Marine Safety business on 31 December 2006. Much
work still has to be done but these measures will eliminate
unnecessary structural duplication, will promote design
and marketing synergies with our Crewsaver life jacket
business, and will facilitate the use of the European
footprint provided by the Bofort acquisition in terms 
of marketing protective clothing.
As a consequence of stock write-downs on unprofitable
contracts already terminated, the Group made an
exceptional provision in October 2006 of  350,000.
Further stock write-downs are anticipated in the 
current financial year but are likely to be offset by 
Group property revaluations.
Operational review
The Group consists of four distinct business streams:
Marine Safety, Protective Clothing, Schoolwear and
Holiday Homes. A summary of their performance is 
set out below.
Marine Safety
Turnover increased to  39.41 million (2005:  33.94 million)
resulting in an improved operating profit of  2.56 million
(2005:  2.02 million) pre exceptional items.
The year finished strongly on the back of new legislation
requiring every crew member on commercial cargo vessels
from 1 July 2006 to be equipped with an immersion suit.
During the year we shipped over 60,000 immersion suits
throughout the world giving us a leading global market
share for this product. Although demand for immersion
suits will be substantially less in 2007, our buoyant sales
over the last two years will give us a regulatory inspection
and service opportunity every three years for customers
who are geographically close to our expanding service
network. As an important by-product of the immersion 
suit initiative, we have also captured a database of over
40,000 marine contacts across the globe. We expect 
to benefit from this through the direct marketing of our
comprehensive product and service offering via our
integrated CRM system. 
Marine leisure sales had another record year with sales 
of the award winning Crewsaver brand of lifejackets and
buoyancy aids, increasing market share in both the UK
and Europe despite a difficult trading environment. 
Additional regulations came into force on 1 July 2006
requiring that the annual inspection and service of lifeboats
be performed by a certified third party and no longer the
ship's own crew. This requirement is now the same as that
for liferafts, our core Marine Safety business. We intend to
expand our service capability to lifeboats where we expect
strong demand in the next few years to catch up with past
neglect. Lifeboats rest on davits that also require annual
inspection and we anticipate our experience in lifting and
testing services will give us a competitive advantage in 
this area. 05 Cosalt:plc Report and accounts 2006
>> Focusing on personal safety and protection services
Schoolwear
Turnover was  19.11 million (2005:  19.64 million) with
operating profit of  1.04 million (2005:  1.09 million) 
pre exceptional items.
The new management team which was put in place in 
May 2006 has reappraised its activities and has now set 
in train a number of improvements. These improvements
include better overseas procurement and logistics, a more
proactive sales approach, better internal planning and
teamwork giving an altogether more active customer-
focused operation. We expect better financial results
emanating from these initiatives in the coming year.
Holiday Homes
Turnover increased to  46.64 million (2005:  45.67 million)
resulting in an operating profit of  187,000 (2005: loss 
of  1.19 million) pre exceptional items.
In a market that remains difficult we continue to 
improve the quality of our products and gain market 
share. As reported last year we have reorganised our
production process along lean manufacturing principles
and further efficiency improvements continue to be made.
We have recently strengthened the management team
with the appointment of an Operations Director thoroughly
experienced in lean manufacturing. He has overseen 
the introduction of a Kanban supply system and the 
multi-skilled work force can now provide small batches 
to suit the current order profile.
In the second half of the year we returned the business 
to profitability achieving an operating profit of  981,000
compared to a loss of  1.32 million in the second half 
of the previous year. We draw further encouragement from
the fact that our market leading Custom Homes business,
which had a difficult year in 2006, entered the 2007
season with a full order book through to the Spring. 
Outlook
The market for our Safety & Protection services and
products looks set to remain firm and we will benefit 
from ten months of accretive earnings from the Bofort
acquisition. Holiday Homes is gaining momentum and 
we expect improved results in Schoolwear. We are not
projecting any improvement in Protective Clothing as we
undertake the necessary initiatives to get the business
back in shape.
Our strategy is clear and focused. We will continue 
to manage cash carefully and we are confident that 
the 2006/2007 year will demonstrate a second year 
of marked recovery in the Group's profitability.
J A B Kelly P A Jonsson
Chairman Chief Executive
19 February 2007