 16 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2010
Business & Responsibility review
Chairman's statement
Last year, we unveiled  Choosing Costain', 
the latest stage in our evolving strategic 
development which is designed to take 
advantage of new opportunities arising 
from the ongoing structural changes in 
the sector through the further expansion 
of our market position across the design 
and engineering, construction, and 
operations and maintenance spectrum. 
To expedite the delivery of our strategy, 
we said that we would look at appropriate 
acquisition opportunities as well  
as organic growth. We are actively 
progressing a number of opportunities 
ranging from bolt-on to transformational 
transactions, and all of which must meet 
a strict set of criteria in the event that  
they were to be concluded.
Approaches to Mouchel Group plc
The Group is currently in an offer  
period in relation to Mouchel Group plc. 
Following completion of comprehensive 
initial due diligence, including 
management meetings with Mouchel,  
the Board of Costain approached the 
Board of Mouchel on 17 February 2011 
with a revised proposal, reflecting our 
assessment of the valuation of Mouchel. 
Since then, the Board of Mouchel has 
entered a  co-operation agreement'  
with a third party. 
Results
Revenue, including the Group's share  
of joint ventures and associates,  
for the year was  1,022.5 million  
(2009:  1,061.1 million). The slight 
Overview & Strategy
I am delighted to report a strong Group 
performance in 2010, which provides 
evidence of the continuing significant 
strides we are making in the delivery  
of our  Choosing Costain' strategy which  
is designed both to build on the Group's 
current strengths and to broaden its 
earnings streams in order to achieve  
our vision of becoming one of the UK's 
top solutions providers.
The fundamental dynamic driving our 
marketplace is the fact that, irrespective 
of the economic environment, the UK 
urgently requires billions of pounds to  
be invested in its basic infrastructure. 
Whether in roads, water, waste or power, 
investment decisions for our long-term 
national success have to be - and are 
being - taken today. 
While customers, both in the public  
and private sectors, continue to place 
significant contracts they also continue  
to drive for major cost savings in  
the process. 
Costain has demonstrated that it has  
the proven ability to meet the exacting 
needs of its blue-chip customers. This  
is being achieved through a combination  
of factors including the outstanding 
quality of our people, the innovative 
solutions that Costain provides to  
meet its customers' demands and  
the utilisation of technology to facilitate  
those innovative solutions.
decrease reflects the deliberate actions 
taken to reduce the Group's exposure  
to the health and education sectors, 
where we anticipated significant 
expenditure cuts, while increasing  
our efforts to secure infrastructure and 
energy related projects which indeed 
showed strong revenue growth. 
Profit from operations was  29.4 million 
(2009:  20.8 million), an increase of 41%, 
including the benefit of the transaction,  
as announced in November 2010, that 
transferred the Group's interest in a 
portfolio of six PFI investments into  
The Costain Pension Scheme ( CPS'). 
We actively trade our PFI equity portfolio 
in order to invest in future opportunities for 
the Group. In 2010, the equity transfer into 
the CPS brought forward and realised  
a profit of  11.2 million from the sale of  
the six PFI investments (2009:  2.0 million 
profit generated from sales of PFI 
investments). By way of comparison,  
after allowing for an additional accrual  
of  2.0 million for share-based payments 
as a result of the overall level of profit 
achieved by the Group following the 
transaction, the PFI transfer generated an 
additional profit of  7 .2 million compared 
to the profit from PFI equity sales in 2009.
Net financing expense amounted to  
 1.5 million (2009:  2.7 million) which 
incorporated net interest income of  
 0.1 million (2009:  2.1 million) and  
a pension scheme related net interest 
cost of  1.6 million (2009:  4.8 million).
 We have delivered another excellent performance. 
Once again, the Group has demonstrated its resilience  
in a continuing difficult economic environment. We are 
confident that our position in markets underpinned by 
strategic capital expenditure, regulatory commitment  
or essential maintenance requirements will continue  
to stand us in good stead.   
 
David Allvey Chairman Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2010 17
Business & Responsibility review 2
Profit before tax was  27.9 million  
(2009:  18.1 million), an increase of 54%.
Basic earnings per share were  
36.4 pence (2009: 23.0 pence
3
). 
As a consequence of continuing to 
secure major contracts during the  
year, despite the prevailing economic 
conditions, the Group finished the  
year with an order book of  2.4 billion  
(2009:  2.6 billion). 
The Group has no significant  
borrowings and net cash balances  
at the year-end totalled  144.3 million  
(2009:  120.5 million), including  
the Group's share of cash held by 
construction joint venture arrangements 
of  33.8 million (2009:  36.0 million). 
The average month-end net cash balance 
during the year was  116.0 million  
(2009:  125.3 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending the  
payment of a final dividend for the year of 
6.25 pence per share (2009: 5.5 pence
3
).  
If approved at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 20 May 2011 to shareholders on the 
register, as at 15 April 2011. This would 
bring the total for the full year to 9.25 
pence per share (2009: 8.25 pence
3
),  
an increase of 12% over the prior year.
Pension
Costain now only offers a defined 
contribution scheme for employees.
As indicated above, the Board agreed 
with the Trustee of the CPS a transaction 
to reduce significantly the Group's 
pension deficit through the transfer  
of the Group's interest in a portfolio  
of six PFI investments into the CPS  
at an agreed valuation of  22.0 million. 
During the year, the pension scheme 
assets also increased in value as a  
result of a recovery in the global equities 
markets. However, this was partially  
offset by an increase in liabilities due to  
an increase in longevity assumptions and 
a reduction in the liability discount rate.
Consequently, as at 31 December 2010, 
the deficit in the CPS recorded in the 
Group's balance sheet in accordance 
with IAS 19 was  28.9 million, net of 
deferred tax (31 December 2009:  
 75.4 million).
An agreement was also finalised last year 
with the Trustee of the CPS regarding the 
actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2010, 
and the associated deficit recovery plan. 
This agreement, which incorporates  
the  22.0 million transfer of the PFI 
investments, will result in a corresponding 
reduction in the Group's future annual 
cash contributions into the CPS over  
a thirty-nine month period starting with 
effect from 1 January 2011. 
Share Consolidation 
At last year's Annual General Meeting  
of the Company, shareholders approved 
a share consolidation on the basis of  
one ordinary share in the Company with  
a nominal value of 50 pence each for 
every ten ordinary shares with a nominal 
value of 5 pence held on 6 May 2010. 
Staff
On behalf of the whole Board, I would  
like to express our gratitude to all our 
colleagues at Costain. The excellent 
performance during the year is the result 
of the efforts of everyone at the Group 
and we recognise their hard work and 
dedication across the business. 
Clive Franks, the Group's Company 
Secretary, who has been with Costain  
for thirty years, is to retire with effect  
from 31 May 2011. Clive has been  
an outstanding member of the Costain  
team. He has shown skill, knowledge  
and commitment throughout and 
demonstrated a deep understanding  
of the Costain culture and the values 
which we all embrace. We wish him  
a long and happy retirement.
Tracey Wood, HR and Legal Director, will 
also become Group Company Secretary 
with effect from 1 June 2011. 
 
Summary & Outlook
We have delivered another excellent 
performance. Once again, the Group has 
demonstrated its resilience in a continuing 
difficult economic environment. We are 
confident that our position in markets 
underpinned by strategic capital 
expenditure, regulatory commitment  
or essential maintenance requirements 
will continue to stand us in good stead. 
Through our  Choosing Costain'  
strategy, we are making good progress  
in achieving our vision of building  
Costain into one of the UK's top solutions 
providers, with the scale and resources  
to meet successfully the increasingly 
complex and challenging needs of  
major customers. Our strategy of  
growing the business through a 
combination of organic growth and 
targeted acquisitions is providing  
a number of exciting options for  
us to consider.
We therefore look to the future with 
confidence, reinforced by our robust 
year-end order book, enhanced cash 
balance and the ongoing support of  
our customers committed to long-term 
capital investment programmes. That 
confidence is reflected in the Board's 
recommendation to increase the total 
dividend for the year. 
 
 
David Allvey 
Chairman
9 March 2011
3  Restated for 2009 following 1 for 10 share 
consolidation.