 www.cppgroupplc.com
06 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chairman's statement
2013 milestones
   May 2013: disposal of the North 
American business 
  May 2013: began the process 
to restructure the Group and 
continued to reduce costs
  July 2013: successfully refinanced 
the Group 
  August 2013: formalised the 
Scheme of Arrangement 
  September 2013: appointed new 
Executive Management team
Our objectives
   Complete the Scheme of 
Arrangement
  Rebuild the business on solid 
foundations 
  Improve our operational and IT 
capability, controls and governance
  Develop longer term business plan
  Modernise the business
  Progress towards improved 
performance 
  Ensure we operate as a 
customer-led business
We are now in a stronger position and have the opportunity 
to take the Group forward
Progress, challenge and change
I joined CPP in January 2011 as a 
Non-Executive Director, shortly before the 
onset of what has been a turbulent period 
for the Group. We have faced three years of 
immense challenge and uncertainty and the 
impact on the business has been profound. 
The Board has clearly recognised the 
seriousness of past failings identified by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
investigation that began in 2011 into sales 
practices in the UK business. The investigation 
concluded in late 2012 and the Group, as agreed 
with the FCA, has operated with restrictions 
to the regulated permissions of the regulated 
entities under a Voluntary Variation 
of Permissions (VVOP). The vehicle for 
providing redress - the Scheme of 
Arrangement (Scheme) - was formalised in 
August 2013, through which CPP and certain 
of its Business Partners can review claims and, 
where appropriate, pay redress. The Scheme 
was approved in early 2014 and will conclude 
on 30 August 2014. I am therefore pleased 
that redress is now being paid to customers 
who were mis-sold our products. 
We acknowledge that, as a result of the 
period of uncertainty and challenges we 
have faced, concerns of our stakeholders have 
been heightened. Therefore, with the Scheme 
underway and due to conclude in August, we 
hope that as we begin to rebuild the business 
we can collectively start to look forward 
together. It will be a substantial task to 
rebuild the Group and it will take time before 
our performance improves and our credibility 
is restored. Our challenges will continue and 
further change is required as we move forward 
to a more stable position. Nonetheless, we are 
pleased that we are now in a stronger position 
and have the opportunity to take the Group 
forward for the next phase of its development.
Turning to 2013, encouraging progress was 
made in a challenging year and we achieved 
a number of milestones. We disposed of the 
North American business; began restructuring 
the Group; continued to reduce our costs 
substantially; successfully refinanced the 
Group through our existing lenders and 
certain Business Partners; formalised the 
Scheme; and strengthened our Executive 
Management team. We also continued to 
place particular emphasis on our operating 
and IT capabilities and the improvements 
required to our governance.
In late 2013, we began developing a new 
business plan to return the Group to a 
position of stability and strength. We also 
identified our key priorities, with particular 
focus on cost reduction, our operational and 
IT environment, reviewing the strategic fit of 
certain markets and our joint venture 
in Home3. We have a short term business 
plan which is evolving as the future of the 
Group becomes more certain. In addition 
to completing the Scheme, our objectives 
are to continue to improve our operational 
capability, controls and governance, 
implement a new IT infrastructure and 
modernise the business. 
Our aim is to progress towards improved 
performance and ensure we operate as a 
customer-led business. Importantly, we 
need to be confident that we are rebuilding 
the business on solid foundations which 
ultimately will allow us to apply to remove 
the restrictions on our regulatory permissions. 
Once the Scheme is concluded, we can 
start to embed our longer term plans. 
Risk management 
pages 23 and 24
Principal risks 
pages 25 and 26
Corporate governance 
pages 28 to 57
Remuneration report 
pages 41 to 53
Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07
Strategic report
   Chairman's statement
Chief Executive Officer's statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
We are currently in consultation with our 
key stakeholders regarding a possible 
requirement for future funding. 
In view of the challenges we have faced, 
the Board continues to believe it is not 
appropriate to pay a dividend.
Reporting developments
This year's Annual Report incorporates 
a number of new disclosure requirements 
to make our strategy, performance and 
Directors' remuneration easier to understand. 
An enhanced Audit Committee report and 
Auditor's report is also included in this year's 
report. The Board provides its confirmation 
on page 57 that the report presents a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of CPP's position and prospects.
Risk management
In 2013, we continued to develop our risk 
management and internal control framework, 
focusing on the principal risks that the Group 
faces. Effective risk management and robust 
internal control, which is summarised on pages 
23 and 24, is central to the achievement of 
our business plans and strategic objectives 
as we move forward and develop the Group 
for the future.
Governance
We continue to make improvements which 
are required to strengthen the governance 
and control environment. During 2013, these 
included enhancements to our Business 
Incident Management system, risk register 
and the introduction of minimum standards 
across the Group. The Board is committed to 
implementing a strong governance framework 
throughout the business, supported by our 
Committees. Full details of our approach to 
governance can be found on pages 32 to 35. 
 Encouraging progress was made in a challenging 
year; nonetheless, it will take time before our 
performance improves and our credibility is restored. 
Duncan McIntyre, Non-Executive Chairman
Remuneration
Our objective is to ensure that our 
remuneration policies clearly reflect our 
business objectives and performance and 
that the interests of the management team 
and shareholders are aligned. During the 
year, the Remuneration Committee 
reviewed the remuneration policies to 
ensure that they remained appropriate. 
The Board 
In December 2013, Charles Gregson 
announced his intention to step down as 
Non-Executive Chairman and in January 
2014, I was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman with the support of the Group's 
largest shareholders. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank Charles for his 
significant contribution during his tenure.
During the year, the Group made a number 
of changes to the Board. With effect from 
1 September 2013, Brent Escott and Craig 
Parsons became Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer respectively to 
lead the Group forward. They succeeded 
Paul Stobart and Shaun Parker who stepped 
down from their respective roles at the end 
of August 2013. I would like to thank both 
Paul and Shaun for their hard work and 
commitment to the Group during a period 
of immense challenge. 
A number of Non-Executive Director changes 
took place during the year. Mr Hamish Ogston, 
who founded CPP in 1980, stepped down 
from his role as Non-Executive Director in 
June 2013. In September and October 2013 
respectively, we announced the appointments 
of Shaun Astley-Stone and Ruth Evans to the 
Non-Executive team, broadening the skillset 
and experience of the Board. Furthermore, 
Les Owen has indicated his intention to retire 
from the Board once a successor has 
been identified.
Looking ahead
As I said in my opening comments, we have 
made encouraging progress; however our 
journey is in its infancy and our performance 
in 2014 will continue to be constrained as we 
concentrate our efforts to rebuild the business. 
Until the Scheme draws to a close on 30 
August 2014, material uncertainty remains. It 
is evident that the financial impact will be 
significant and the Group's financial resources 
will be reduced. 
The Board is taking what it collectively 
believes to be an appropriate course of 
action to improve our performance within a 
realistic timeframe. Much work will continue 
to take place during 2014 to complete the 
improvements and changes required to 
reposition the Group whilst we also resolve 
the challenges that remain and complete 
the Scheme. The Board is actively assessing 
the options for value creation going forward 
and building on our strengths and progress 
made, our key objective is to create a 
sustainable business proposition for the 
long term.
I would like to thank our people for their 
continued commitment and loyalty and the 
Board is grateful for the on-going support of 
our stakeholders.
Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman
23 April 2014