 4
The Group's strong financial performance
during the first six months of 2005 was
overshadowed by a disappointing
performance in the second half of the year.
This was as a consequence of the problems
referred to in our October trading
statement, being the deferral of anticipated
orders from two customers for our German
facility, and reduced repair volumes in
some areas of our UK IT businesses.
Unfortunately both these factors were
outside of the control of CRC management
as the problems related to customers' own
market conditions. In addition, an adverse
change in product mix on a contract within
the Group's Communications Division led
to CRC carrying unacceptably high unit
repair costs and therefore poor margins. 
As the Board forewarned in October, these
factors led to a lower level of Group profit
than anticipated in the second half of the
year. In response, the Group commenced a
comprehensive review of its cost base,
supported by external consultants 
(see below).
In February 2006 the Group discovered
trading activities in one part of the business
that amounted to the wrongful disposal 
of stock held on behalf of a third party,
resulting in a  1.3m reduction in 2005
operating profit as the situation was
corrected, with a corresponding cash
impact in 2006. A detailed investigation 
by our auditors' forensic department,
has confirmed that the activity was
confined to a handful of employees in one
business unit. The corollary disciplinary
investigations are expected to be
completed by the end of April. At the
conclusion of the investigations we will be
able to put in place preventive measures
relating both to the control over trading
activities and the prompt identification and
investigation of unusual transactions. CRC
is entrusted with its customers' property,
and with the fulfilment of our customers'
service promises. Accordingly, earning and
maintaining trust in our ethical and control
standards is paramount. In order to
reassure all our customers that this trust is
not misplaced, and to remove any taint
remaining with regard to the more than
1,900 employees not involved in this
episode we have chosen to undertake a
comprehensive and time consuming
investigation rather than unduly expediting
the process. 
In spite of this disappointing financial
performance, in 2005 CRC Group
consolidated its position as a leader in our
sector, providing technology repair services
and solutions to international market
leaders in the communications, home
gateway and information technology
sectors. CRC's ability to provide rapid
turnaround and high reliability service,
which is widely acknowledged in the
Group's markets, led to additional
significant contract wins. 
The contracts won in the latter part of
2004 and in 2005, included UTL/Vodafone
and ntl in the UK, Fujitsu Siemens in
Germany, and Sony Ericsson in Poland.
Contract gains from existing customers
such as Siemens Business Services and
Apple also created additional annualised
revenues. Our investment in both skilled
staff and technological capabilities,
including proprietary solutions, ensured
these new and substantial contracts were
fulfilled efficiently and to the high
standards which our clients demand to
sustain the quality of their customer
service. Together, these factors enabled us
to achieve organic sales growth over the
year of 9 per cent. However, we were
disappointed by the decision of Vodafone
to consolidate all handset reverse logistics
including repair to one location in 2007,
with all services to be provided by another
logistics partner.
We completed our first acquisition in Italy
toward the end of the year, enabling us to
extend our technology repair service
network further across Europe. A solid
management team is in place, the
integration is proceeding to plan and we
are undertaking a program to reduce the
cost base and grow the business by
attracting new customers. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Sales for the year were  78.8 million
(2004:  69.3 million), an increase of
13.7%. Operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was
 3.1 million (2004:  5.6 million),
generating a margin of 3.9% (2004: 8.1%).
Goodwill amortisation was  1.0 million
(2004:  0.9 million). Exceptional items
were  1.1 million (2004:  nil). Profit before
tax was  0.7 million (2004:  4.6 million)
Earnings per share pre amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items were 6.9p
(2004: 15.93p) while basic earnings per
share was a loss of 0.16p (2004: earnings
of 12.07p).
Operating cashflow was  3.0 million
(2004:  7.5 million). Debt at the end of the
year was  7.8 million (2004:  1.1 million).
Sales in the second half of the year were
 40.8 million, an increase of 7% on the
first half mainly driven by our Italian
acquisition. 
DIVIDEND
The Board has concluded that the Group
needs to conserve its financial capability to
complete improvement activities, including
the integration of the Italian subsidiaries, in
order to achieve a full return to profitability
Chairman's Statement
CRC's ability to provide rapid turnaround and high
reliability service, which is widely acknowledged in
the Group's markets, led to additional significant
contract wins.  5
at a level commensurate with the trading
potential of the Group. The Board is
therefore not proposing the payment of 
a final payment for 2005. We intend to
return to our policy of progressive
dividends as soon as is prudently possible. 
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
Earlier in the year, the Board of CRC Group
was strengthened by the appointment of
two well-qualified non-executive directors.
Robert Gogel, 52, who was appointed 
on 25 May 2005 and who has joined the
Remuneration Committee, is a US/French
citizen based in Paris and has substantial
experience in the management of both
large technology businesses and high
growth start-ups. Jan Astrand, who was
appointed on 5 April 2005, and who has
joined the Audit Committee, is a Swedish
national based in London, and has gained
material experience of international business
expansion during his career in general
management and finance. Mr Astrand has
also been named as the Group's Senior
Independent Director. The Board is
delighted to have secured the services of
two individuals of such high calibre.
Following the trading statement
announced in October 2005, the then
Group Chief Executive, Alan McLaughlin,
tendered his resignation, which the Board
accepted. Alan left the Company on 24
October 2005. 
Since the year end, Christopher Matthews,
who was suspended on 27 February 2006
tendered his resignation from the Board of
CRC on 22 March 2006. The Board
exonerated Mr Matthews from any active
involvement in the wrongful disposal of
stock held on behalf of a third party 
and has concluded that allegations that 
Mr Matthews authorised or condoned the
sale of this stock were not substantiated.
A search for a new Finance Director has
been initiated, but for the interim period
Patrick Thompson will continue as Acting
Finance Director. 
In March 2006 the Board appointed Gary
Stokes to the position of Group Chief
Executive. From 2001 until December
2005 Mr Stokes was CEO of the Materials
Handling Division of LINPAC, a global
packaging based group. With operations
spread across 18 sites on 3 continents,
the division generated revenues
approaching  200m. Prior to joining
LINPAC, Mr Stokes was previously Finance
Director at Atkins plc and Tomkinsons plc
before being appointed MD of retail
operations for Gaskell plc. The Board is
pleased to have attracted an Executive of
Gary's proven capability to take the
business forward.
EMPLOYEES
Our workforce has contributed materially
to the Group's increased sales levels over
the year, to the further enhancement of
our technological capability and to our
reputation for customer commitment and
service excellence. The performance of our
staff - in particular middle management
and those directly responsible for service
provision - has remained high during a
challenging period. On behalf of all
shareholders, the Board wishes to thank
them for their continuing contribution to
the Group. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
The Group clearly operated below its full
potential in 2005, but it is important to
note that it remained profitable and cash
generative at the operating level as
reported above: 2005 operating margins
before amortisation of goodwill and
exceptional items were 3.9% and operating
cashflow  3.0 million. 
In January, following a review of the cost
base, we reorganised the executive
leadership of the business, eliminating
unnecessary overheads and simplifying the
relationship between the operating units,
their customers and the management of
service and profitability. It is expected 
that this will reduce costs by  650,000 on
an annual basis commencing in 2006.
Earlier in 2005 our Berlin operation was
restructured to bring its cost base in line
with its business activity reducing costs 
by  769,000 per annum, of which
approximately  280,000 came through 
in 2005.
OUTLOOK
In line with the trading update issued in
January, we continue to anticipate modest
revenue growth for 2006. The Board is
continuing its review of further options 
for addressing the Group's cost base with 
a view to improving profitability going
forward and there will be a further update
on trading and the review of the cost base
at the AGM in May.
2006 will be a year of transition, with
changes to CRC's organisation, operations
and customer base and a re-focussing on
the pre-eminent importance of delivering
excellent service for our customers and on
delivering attractive and sustainable
financial performance for our investors.
The Board remains committed to its
strategy of building shareholder value
through continuous development of its
strong position within the pan-European
communications and IT technology repairs
sector, and will continue to prudently
pursue modest acquisitions. 
David Ryan
Chairman 