 Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement
2 Creston plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts
With 800 people working together
great things can be achieved 
David Marshall
Chairman
Don Elgie
Chief Executive Officer Key Performance Indicators
Creston has had its fifth year of record results with
very strong revenue and Headline PBT growth of
124 per cent and 125 per cent respectively.
  Like-for-like PBIT growth at the operating company level
was 18 per cent, some four times greater than for the
industry as a whole and a testimony to Creston's ability
to identify and acquire growth companies.
  Revenue per head has increased by 36 per cent
  Headline PBIT per head has increased by 35 per cent
  Headline PBIT margin remains far in excess of
our competitors at 18 per cent
  Reported PBIT and PBT under IFRS have also
shown substantial growth of 103 per cent and
82 per cent respectively.
Earnings per Share (EPS)
Headline basic EPS growth was strong at 41 per cent
and Headline diluted EPS growth was excellent at
36 per cent.The distorting effect of IFRS accounting,
which includes non-cash and non-recurring charges
of deemed remuneration and notional finance charges
for acquisitions, produced a lower diluted EPS growth of
11 per cent.This notional charge to the income statement
ends as each earn-out finishes and accounting profits
increase accordingly.
Key Operating Achievements
Acquisitions
With our acquisitions we have focused on marketing
disciplines that deliver what our clients increasingly
want - genuine insights into the preferences of their
customers and efficient, measurable ways of reaching
them. Overall we feel that we are now well-placed
to grow further and take advantage of the changing
international marketing landscape.
Since the last Report and Accounts, Creston has made
three acquisitions: one in July 2005 and two in May 2006.
Red Door Communications, one of Britain's best
performing healthcare PR companies, was acquired
on 7 July 2005 for an initial consideration of  6.8 million,
including costs and estimated further deferred
consideration (on an IFRS basis) of  1.9 million. Its clients
include AstraZeneca UK, Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline.
The acquisition has bedded in well and the company
continues to excel.
Our Insight Division has recently been strengthened
by the acquisition of ICM Research Ltd (ICM). Britain's
largest independent market research company, ICM was
acquired on 17 May 2006. Clients include Vodafone,
Orange, O2,Wanadoo, Norwich Union, NOP , Dixon Store
Group, Saga, BT Mobile and Y orkshire Bank.
Tullo Marshall Warren Ltd (TMW), Britain's leading direct
marketing and digital communications agency, was also
acquired on 17 May 2006 along with its sister company
Colombus Communications. Clients include Lloyds TSB,
British Airways, Nissan and Unilever.With TMW we have
an insight and data mining/analysis capability that we
consider equal to any in Europe.
The result of these acquisitions is that Creston has
developed into a rounded diversified group with huge
growth potential, as we increasingly see the benefits of
the synergies we have created in the Group.We will
continue to identify opportunities in the UK, as described
later, but our attention will also increasingly turn abroad.
Appointment of Group Synergy and
Strategy Director
Synergy has been a core tenet of the Creston strategy
since the formation of the Group. In December 2005,
we were very pleased to appoint Simon Williams as
Group Synergy and Strategy Director to drive the
synergy process forward. April 2006 was the best month
on record for synergy.
IT
With 800 employees, the Group can now achieve significant
technology efficiencies, not just in cost but in common
operating systems. In the last year Creston appointed
Gavin Whatrup from DLKW as Head of IT for the Group
with a remit of aligning our IT strategy and investment, as
well as securing favourable Group procurement agreements.
Common Accounting System
Key to the effectiveness of the Group's financial reporting
and controls is the introduction of a common accounting
system for all Group companies. Maconomy, a well-
established system within the marketing services industry,
is being rolled out throughout the Group.
www.creston.com 3
The performance of the Group this year is
testament to both our strategy of creating synergy
between Group companies and our efficient
management of operations. Outline of Key Strategic Priorities
1. International
In order to better serve our clients, our main priority
will be to develop an international presence. Although
we declared our international aspirations publicly in 2002,
the fact that we have yet to announce an international
acquisition shows the very conservative nature of
Creston's acquisitions strategy. Having demonstrated
the durability of our acquisitions strategy in the UK,
we will apply a similar model abroad.
Our goal is to be centred in only six countries within the
main European markets, USA, Asia and eventually Latin
America.The timescale will depend on matching the right
opportunities with the right cultural fit.We will not force
a timetable on ourselves that might create ill-founded and
unnecessary pressure.
We plan to identify potential sister  companies which are
strong in the main disciplines represented in the UK such
as market research, marketing communications (including
direct marketing), advertising, PR, digital and online.
2. The Internet and Digital Communications
(i) Marketing Communications
9.6 per cent of marketing spend in the UK was via
the internet in 2005 and that is forecast to grow by
39 per cent in 2006 (source: Group M). Creston, as
a group, is well-represented in this area with 10.1 per
cent of Group revenue already associated with the
internet and digital communications.This rises to
13.1 per cent with the acquisition of TMW and ICM.
For instance,TMW, with 38 people in digital, has
arguably the largest digital division of any of the
non-specialist agencies in the UK. However, we
recognise that we must continue to grow in this
area if we are to match the growth in the market.
(ii) Online Research
Whilst there are very specific reasons such as
geography and safety for the growth of online
research in the USA, we appreciate the importance
of online research which grew by 23 per cent in 2005
in the UK (source: Inside Research September 2005).
Both ICM and Marketing Sciences Ltd (MSL), our two
quantitative research companies, already conduct
research surveys online.We aim to reinforce and
increase this offering.
3. Building out the UK Group
As explained in the Strategic Business Review, our
objective is to develop a market-leading Group offering.
T o date we are very pleased with our diversified portfolio
of companies in the UK but recognise that further
additions will be required.We will look to complement
our channel and brand communication planning offerings,
as well as our MARCOM disciplines.
Board
We would like to thank the other Board members for
the excellent contribution they have made throughout
the year. In recognition of corporate governance
guidelines, we intend to identify an appropriate
Non-Executive Director candidate who will also act
as Chairman of the Audit Committee by the 2007
AGM. In turn, the Board would like to thank staff
and colleagues for their contribution and efforts for
last year's excellent performance.
Outlook
Creston has demonstrated the robustness of its business
model for five consecutive years. As our profile rises,
an increasing number of high quality companies and
individuals are approaching us.We see nothing on
the horizon that will prevent us from having another
excellent year in 2007.
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement continued
4 Creston plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts
David Marshall
Chairman
Don Elgie
Chief Executive Officer
Acquisition criteria
The Group has established a series of
benchmark criteria that it applies to all
potential acquisitions:
Growth companies
Creston buys established high quality businesses
with proven growth histories and credible
resilient business plans.We look for companies
that have national and international clients
without significant client concentration.
Committed vendors
Creston will not consider companies whose
vendors want an immediate exit, although it is
sensitive to life stage. Instead, the Board prefers
to harness the entrepreneurial skills of vendors
and channel them into growing the Group.
Creston equity - An important part of
retaining vendor loyalty
Creston equity forms a meaningful part of the
acquisition consideration because it helps to bind
the ambitions of vendors and Creston together. Digital
Online
Online
Digital
Digital
Online
Online
Digital
Our unique business
4 Divisions, 12 Companies, 800 People working together.
Sustainable Brand Driven Growth - Delivered.
www.creston.com 5
For further investor information please visit our
website: www.creston.com
BRANDCOM
Division
Delaney Lund Knox Warren
& Partners Ltd (DLKW)
advertising and integrated
communications
Insight Division
Marketing Sciences Ltd (MSL)
qualitative and quantitative market research
Mobile Sensory Testing Services Ltd (MSTS)
sensory and consumer research
CML Research Ltd (CML)
qualitative market research
ICM Research Ltd (ICM)
qualitative and quantitative research
MARCOMS Division
The Real Adventure Marketing
Communications Ltd (TRA)
direct marketing and customer
relationship marketing
EMO Group Ltd (EMO Group)
marketing communications and channel marketing
Dialogue DLKW Ltd (Dialogue)
the integrated communication agency of DLKW
The Composing Room Ltd (TCR)
the production and pre-press agency
of DLKW
Tullo Marshall Warren Ltd (TMW)
direct and digital marketing
Public Relations
Division
Nelson Bostock
Communications Ltd (NBC)
technology and consumer public relations
Red Door Communications Ltd (RDC)
healthcare public relations
Creston Group
International Marketing
Services Group