 Cyprotex 
Report & Accounts 2004
06
Chairman and CEO's review
2004 was a watershed year for Cyprotex.
In the course of just one year the company has moved from a position 
of recognising the true scope and potential of its market, to being able to 
grasp opportunities at the commercial, intellectual and operational forefront 
of its sector.
2004 was a watershed year for Cyprotex
In the course of just one year the company has moved from a position
of recognising the true scope and potential of its market, to being able
to grasp opportunities at the commercial, intellectual and operational
forefront of its sector.
The immediate task for 2004 was to allow the Group to secure these
opportunities by completing its transition into high throughput 
Cloe Screen
 
assays, gaining market acceptance of its predictive
computational capabilities and to significantly expand its customer base
whilst carefully guarding cash resources. With the support, loyalty and
drive of its staff, all were achieved.
A year of major investment
Cyprotex was rewarded with more than a doubling of its core client
base having opened a sales office in North America, started a direct
drive into Japan and strengthened its European marketing. With
momentum building strongly, detailed planning ensured scalability of all
Group activities. The seamless expansion of its leading-edge laboratory
capabilities which began in the second half, is expected to guarantee
the operational capacity, execution and reliability demanded by major
customers beyond 2006. This was entirely financed through existing
cash resources. Capital requirements are expected to fall significantly 
in 2005.
The first rewards from the Group's high commitment for Research and
Development have also been seen. This is demonstrated, by the ability
to repeatedly service some of the world's most demanding customers,
ranging from the largest global pharmaceutical companies to the
smallest biotechnology company, in a suitably economical, timely and
sophisticated manner. Moreover, the uptake of its  virtual human'
pharmacokinetic technology clearly places Cyprotex at the intellectual
forefront of its sector. Relative Research and Development investment
costs will diminish in 2005.
2005 has started strongly
Recognising the continued expansion of its core customer base and the
extent of repeat/longer-term contracts, Cyprotex expects to significantly
outpace the underlying growth of its sector again in 2005.
Despite a major expansion of its operational facilities during 2004,
management has continued to carefully guard its cash resources.
Cyprotex expects to find itself moving cash flow positive, on a monthly
basis, in 2005. Existing operations are now considered to have
sufficient resources to fund their own expansion going forward.
R Morrisson Atwater
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Key objectives
  Move to a cash flow positive position on a monthly basis 
in 2005
  Outpace market sector growth
  Add new technologies to Cyprotex's products through
acquisition or organically
  Secure significant downstream value from integrated drug 
discovery collaborations
  Achieve a significant increase in contribution from the US market
  Gain a foothold in the Japanese market
Cyprotex AR Proof 10 artwork  4/4/05  2:12 pm  Page 8 Cyprotex 
Report & Accounts 2004
07
Move towards profitability in sight
2005 has started strongly. With continued expansion of 
its core customer base Cyprotex expects to significantly
outpace the underlying growth of its sector again in 2005.
Cyprotex expects to find itself moving cash flow positive,
on a monthly basis, in 2005.
Cyprotex is in a period of rapid growth
following acceptance of its services 
and technology by the Biotechnology 
and Pharmaceutical Industry.
Cloe PK
 
Partnerships New Cloe Screen
 
assays
Cyprotex AR Proof 10 artwork  4/4/05  2:12 pm  Page 9 Cyprotex 
Report & Accounts 2004
08
Product Development
Cyprotex has significantly increased the robustness and automation 
of its Cloe Screen
 
assays, through a transition into high throughput
screening without any loss of  classical laboratory' quality. Extensive
commercial and scientific validation has been rewarded by strengthening
customer relations and obtaining repeat business.
Cyprotex's product offering was expanded further to areas where
additional revenue can rapidly be generated; one such development
being the Cloe Screen
 
hERG channel inhibition assay, which was
validated earlier this year. In addition, a restructuring of metabolite
profiling and identification offerings is underway, with a view to efficiently
leveraging new laboratory facilities, whilst new offerings for in-vitro
safety toxicology have also been prioritised.
Good acceptance has been registered for the Group's integrated
products, that combine experimental screening with  virtual human'
predictive modelling in order to forecast the pharmacokinetics of drug
candidates. The first long term contract for Cloe PK
 
has provided the
opportunity for further refinement of this offering. Evaluation projects
and subscription discussions are continuing with a series of global
pharmaceutical companies for similar contracts.
The Group also continued to invest heavily in the next generation of
predictive modelling systems. The rapid evolution of these products will
allow progressive offering of propriety  in-silico' technologies, as a
further step to offering its customers a  one-stop-shop' in discovery
ADMET/PK.
Customer Development
Cyprotex's marketing drive during 2004 was rewarded with more than a
doubling of its core customer base. Revenue generating contracts were
secured during the period from a very wide range of customers, including
global names such as, Roche, Serono, Solvay, ALTANA, AstraZeneca,
Elan, Shire, Novo Nordisk and Johnson & Johnson.
In recognition that the single largest market opportunity for Cyprotex's
technology remains in North America, a sales office was opened on the
East Coast during 2004. The Group has already closed significant deals
and identified major new customer opportunities in the area. Further
representation on the West Coast will be considered during 2005.
Recognising also Japan as a further area to benefit from a direct sales
effort, late in 2004 the Group began a marketing drive into the region.
The Group actively participated in a large number of global conferences,
seminars and workshops during 2004, such as the World Pharmaceutical
Congress and Drug Discovery Technology World Congress. Promotional
activity in the current year will also include the further raising of
Cyprotex's technological profile through publication of scientific papers,
the activity of our Scientific Advisory Board and market-focused
editorials and news releases.
Laboratory Expansion
Detailed planning has ensured the scalability of the Group's unique
laboratory operations. In commissioning a series of new  state-of-the
art' instruments (mass spectrometer, automated planar-patch clamp 
for hERG channel inhibition, high-throughput liquid handling robot, etc.)
in its highly automated environment, Cyprotex has anticipated the
capacity, turnaround and reliability requirements of its expanding
customer base beyond 2006.
Without anticipating any deterioration of the exceptional gross margin
enjoyed by the Group's in-vitro facilities, Cyprotex remains confident 
of its ability to continue to significantly outpace its own expanding
market place.
Operational Premises
Cyprotex's operational headquarters in Macclesfield, which house all 
of the Group's laboratory and UK administration offices, were offered 
for sale on the open market during 2004.
The management carefully considered the economic and shareholder
benefits of tendering for the building's purchase. The property in Beech
Lane was subsequently secured, on 17 January 2005, at a discount 
to its valuation for vacant possession.
The Group is now freed from historical obligations derived from the
terms of its  full repairing' lease whilst approximately halving its annual
cost of occupation. Additional benefits include added security for staff,
significant scope to expand operational space on the half-acre site and
the medium-term development potential of this town centre location.
The property was financed with existing cash resources and an 80%
mortgage arranged through our principal bankers.
Robert Morrisson Atwater
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2005
Financial highlights 2004
  Revenue for the year ended 31st December 2004 was  2,117,321, 
against  1,052,953 for the comparable period in 2003, representing
more than a 100% year-on-year increase. 
  Gross profit more than doubled for the year to  1,684,880, up from 
 803,101 in 2003.
  Gross margins rose to 80%, compared with 76%.
  The loss on ordinary activity after taxation, for the year was 
 1,299,107, down from a loss of  1,860,145 in 2003, representing 
a reduction of more than 30% year-on-year.
  Cash resources were carefully guarded. Year-end net cash 
amounted to  1.84m, despite significant capital investment in 
new laboratory capabilities.
  A rapidly expanding customer base has ensured the Group does 
not have a high dependence on any single client, the largest 
of which contributed less than 14% of total revenues in 2004.
Cyprotex AR Proof 10 artwork  4/4/05  2:12 pm  Page 10 Cyprotex 
Report & Accounts 2004
09
Investing in the future
We have added PhD and BSc trained scientists to our
talented laboratory team and established a US-based
business development manager to expand our presence
in the growing US market. We acquired additional mass
spectrometer analysis equipment and the latest technology
for cardiovascular toxicity screening to expand and
develop our Cloe Screen
 
service.
We have expanded our capacity within 
our Cloe Screen
 
facilities and extended
our services in high demand areas of
toxicity and metabolism. In addition, we
have further developed our prediction
technologies with the aim of becoming an
integrated partner in drug discovery.
Predicting drug properties Cardiotoxicity screening
Cyprotex AR Proof 10 artwork  4/4/05  2:12 pm  Page 11