 Cyprotex Report & Accounts 2005 06
Chairman and CEO's review
2006 has seen a strong start. Having built
upon its principal customer relationships,
Cyprotex is presently benefiting from the
overflow of work that was evident toward
the end of the fourth quarter 2005.
Meeting Key Objectives
The Chairman's statement in the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts
detailed Cyprotex's Key Objectives for the past year. I am delighted to
say that all six of these objectives were achieved.
Business expansion, both in terms of numbers of clients and scale of
collaborations met with the Board's expectations. The Group now has
key customer relationships in the three global territories where
opportunities for high-throughput pharmacokinetic profiling are centred.
Anticipating a continued high-level of 'repeat-business' and further
enlargement of the customer base and contract type amid continued
market expansion, Cyprotex sees an excellent opportunity for further
significant growth in 2006.
At the Forefront of Discovery ADMET
During the past year, Cyprotex underlined its commitment to remain at
the forefront of human-discovery ADMET (Absorption, Distribution,
Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicity). By the end of the third quarter, the
planned expansion of its  wet' facilities was largely complete. Having
specified 'state-of-the-art' instrumentation to be operational within the
Group's highly automated environment and wholly supported by its
proprietary operating systems, Cyprotex ensures it remains unequalled
in its field. Capacity now accommodates anticipated expansion beyond
end-2007. In the current year, Cloe
 
Screen is also expected to benefit
from a further step improvement in the sophistication of its offering: 
Creating Cyprotex partnerships globally
Drug-drug interactions (DDI) are a common cause of adverse reactions in vivo. A family 
of enzymes known as Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) play a major role in the metabolism of
drugs. Cyprotex offers the Cloe
  
Screen CYP450 Inhibition service to identify possible DDI.
The assay provides a detailed quality protocol but offers the speed and cost-effectiveness
of a high throughput technique. These features enable a traditionally later stage assay 
to be amenable to early drug discovery.
A European client has a specific problem with their series of compounds being inhibitors
of the CYP450 isoform, CYP3A4. As approximately 50% of marketed drugs are
metabolised by CYP3A4, the potential for DDI is high. The company uses Cloe
  
Screen
CYP450 Inhibition as a first line ADME screen in order to identify the extent 
of inhibition for new compounds being synthesised. By using this approach, they are 
able to select the best candidates to take forward for further studies.  Cyprotex Report & Accounts 2005 07
a newly integrated predictive modelling tool, designed to unbundle the
saturation of high-quality data and provide an opportunity to significantly
accelerate analyses through the  hit-to-lead' process will be incorporated.
Effectively, this product will showcase the scope and depth of Cloe
 
PK
services, whilst adding an additional dimension to industry standard
screening services.
The Group's product offering was also enhanced through the addition
of new high-throughput assays and further refinement of Cloe
 
PK. 
This builds upon Cyprotex's reputation for innovation and 'best-in-class'
quality of service. Tangible results from these endeavours were
adequately demonstrated through the signing of new long-term contracts
with major international pharmaceutical groups, such as Sepracor.
Working relationships, such as these, improve forward visibility and
confirm the Group's ability to add value in one of the world's most
prestigious technological arenas. 
2006 - Starting from a Strong Base
2006 has seen a strong start. Having built upon its principal customer
relationships, Cyprotex is presently benefiting from the overflow of work
that was evident toward the end of the fourth quarter 2005. By setting
standards in quality of service, turnaround and reproducibility, exceptional
customer retention has always been a feature of the Group. By further
driving into the enormous and still largely untapped global ADMET
marketplace, Cyprotex remains confident of significantly outpacing the
underlying growth of its sector once again in the current year. 
Despite continued high investment during the period, Cyprotex ended
2005 with a net cash position (after excluding lease-finance obligations).
Whilst anticipating further optimisation of improved facilities this year,
with a view to a significant further expansion of the Group's automated
capability and capacity within the existing structure, the Board of
Directors now foresee a period of lower capital expenditure. Instead,
Cyprotex will employ its resources in building market position and
developing its customer base. Meanwhile, its management's promise,
to continue to jealously guard the Group's cash resources, remains
unchanged.
Product Development
Meeting both customer demand and increasingly stringent regulatory
guidelines, Cyprotex extended its range of high throughput assays by
expanding the number of Cytochrome P450 inhibition assays,
introducing a parallel artificial membrane assay (PAMPA) and by
expanding the number of Caco-2 permeability assays, using multiple
pH's in order to closely mimic in vivo situations. Modelling applied to
Caco-2 data, for example, is crucial to the understanding of absorption
at the blood-brain barrier. Regular forums helped gain valuable insights
into customer needs, as a result of which, 2005 saw features being
added to our interactive website, backed by education programmes
and in-depth guidance to simplify interpretation.
The new year will see Cyprotex providing in silico support for an 
EU-funded EUMAPP (European Union Microdose AMS Partnership
The Group has moved away from its historic
reliance on the UK market which accounted
for 44% of turnover in 2003 by specifically
targeting the larger markets of the USA and
Continental Europe. The Group's aim is to
be a truly global provider of ADMET services
in all principal territories where opportunities
for high-throughput pharmacokinetic
profiling are centred.
Geographical sales
analysis 2005
Geographical sales 
analysis 2004
Europe 55.9%
USA 5.9%
UK 38.2%
Europe 60.9%
USA 27.7%
UK 10.6%
ROW 0.8% Cyprotex Report & Accounts 2005 08
Programme) project, designed to accelerate molecules through 
 lab-to-clinic'. Within a European consortium, the Group is also
contracted as part of a team investigating whether in vivo toxicity can
be predicted using a combination of in vitro ADME data and
cytotoxicity. The urgent goal here, of course, being to establish a
credible alternative to animal toxicity testing.
Further refinement and improved presentation of the existing offering, 
is designed to add greater flexibility to the Group's predictive modelling
tools and satisfy demand for increasingly customised solutions. 
Newly integrated Cloe
 
Screen and Cloe
 
PK packages are also being
developed to showcase the unique solutions offered by the Cloe
 
range
of products and add value to existing services.
External partnerships are now being sought in order to broaden current
studies in human absorption. Meanwhile, the on-going programme of
expanding the product range, depth and sophistication continues with
the ambition to eliminate the need to outsource elements of the  wet'
activities in a drive towards offering  one-stop-shopping'.
Customer Development
The total number of active customers serviced by Cyprotex during 2005
expanded by some 60%, whilst doubling the actual number of individual
studies undertaken. Revenue generating contracts were secured from 
a range of global names, such as Solvay, Sepracor, Novo Nordisk,
Johnson and Johnson and Takeda. Quite clearly, the market opportunity
for sophisticated ADMET services is large and expanding. Cyprotex
sees increased regulatory pressures, a desire to prove/economise in-
house discovery operations within  big pharma' and the biotechnology
industry's increasing domination of early discovery, continuing to
heighten the need for such outsourcing.
Having recognised the global potential for the Group's services over 
the past two years, Cyprotex is now able to concentrate on securing
higher-value, collaborative agreements. Alternative higher-added
revenue streams have also been identified through partnership 
and consortium agreements (Peakdale) and within associated, but
complementary, product areas (Unilever). Cyprotex also sees opportunities
to participate in longer-term co-operations with specialist chemistry
providers looking for opportunities to embed ADMET services within
their offering.
Laboratory Expansion
The relatively high level of capital expenditure seen in 2005 is not
expected to be a feature of the current year. 
The successful integration of the Group's fourth Quadrupole Mass
Spectrometer, its hERG channel inhibition, robotised liquid handling 
for cell culture facility, adoption of automated quality control and order
processing procedures, significantly enlarged capacity, guaranteed
Key objectives for 2006
  Target achieving a break-even situation
  Significantly outpace sector growth as recognised standard-setter industry-wide
  Broaden Cyprotex's range of products, services and technologies, both 
organically and through acquisition
  Add further downstream value and visibility through integrated drug 
discovery collaborations
  Build rapidly upon contribution from the US 
  Expand foothold in Japanese market
Customer Quotation
 This is wonderful! Fast turnaround, legible results, help 
in interpretation of the results, and a list of FAQs! I am 
impressed. I understand why my colleague is so enthusiastic 
about Cyprotex. I will recommend you to all my colleagues 
and friends!'
A Cyprotex specialist working to
constantly update our technology
and ability to improve our clients'
product pipeline development.
Cyprotex recognises that the
pharmaceutical industry is increasingly
moving to outsource ADME and 
toxicity evaluation. Cyprotex Report & Accounts 2005 09
reproducibility, accelerated turnaround and multiplied flexibility for
customers. Moreover, as these relationships develop, the opportunity to
further embed Group services is available offering direct custom feeds
that enable real-time interaction and data interrogation.
Without anticipating any deterioration of the exceptional gross margin
enjoyed by the Group's in vitro facilities, Cyprotex remains confident 
of its ability to service the requirements, and to outpace the expansion,
of its competitive market place.
Directorate Changes in 2005 
In October there were two directorate changes. Nikolas Sofronis joined
the Board as a Non-executive Director. He is a lawyer and has fifteen
years experience in biopharmaceutical asset management organisations
and will add considerable knowledge and expertise which will be of great
value to the Group in the future. Dr. David Leahy stepped down from the
Board in order to concentrate on research and the further development
of the Group's predictive technology capabilities. 
Robert Morrisson Atwater
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
5 April 2006