 Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 08
BuSINESS hIGh LIGhTS
I am pleased to report another set of strong 
results in what remains a challenging global 
economy, again testament to the robust 
structure and dynamic nature of the Group. 
The world continues to change and grow at 
a staggering rate. The way consumers and 
businesses access and utilise information now 
underpins how people around the world 
interact, behave, even think. With that comes 
opportunity: to utilise the best technology; to 
innovate and develop new products; and to 
expand across geographies and sectors. 
As a Group we have a responsibility to ensure 
that we maximise that opportunity to the 
best of our ability. Technology is the tool, but 
our people are the ones who harness it to 
push new boundaries and build more value. 
That ingenuity is why we have been able to 
grow revenue and profits year on year and 
increase the proportion of revenues and 
profits coming from outside the UK, as well as 
our digital activities which are considerable 
and continue apace. 
The Group is well placed to capitalise on the 
significant changes we are seeing in our 
markets, from consumer behaviour to 
business-to-business needs in an increasingly 
volatile environment. People expect more 
and demand more, to which our response is 
to continue to challenge the status quo and 
to create outstanding products that answer 
those growing aspirations. We aim to set the 
agenda. Others follow. 
On 18 April 2012, FTSE announced that 
DMGT's   A ' Ordinary Non-Voting Shares 
would no longer be eligible for inclusion in 
the UK Index Series. The Board of DMGT has 
considered at length, with the assistance of 
its advisors, the options available to it and the 
suitability of such options to meet the needs 
of its stakeholders to make the   A ' Ordinary 
Non-Voting Shares eligible for inclusion in the 
UK Index Series but no solution has to date 
been found. The FSA 's recently issued 
consultation paper on  Enhancing the 
effectiveness of the Listing Regime and 
feedback on CP12/2' makes it more difficult 
to envisage how the Company can regain its 
premium listing. It is unlikely, therefore, that 
the   A ' Ordinary Non-Voting Shares will 
become eligible for inclusion in the index in 
the foreseeable future. However, DMGT's   A ' 
Ordinary Non-Voting Shares will continue to 
be standard listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange and to be a member of 
other important indices such as MSCI,  
STOXX, S&P and the FTSE Global Equity Index 
Series and DMGT will continue to maintain 
the highest standard of governance  
and disclosure. 
CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
As Chairman I have always been committed 
to ensuring that DMGT maintains the highest 
standards of corporate governance and our 
Corporate Governance Report highlights 
how we continue to incorporate these 
principles into the delivery of our strategy. 
Last year I also highlighted the importance of 
diversity on our Board which is about ensuring 
that there is an appropriate range and 
balance of skills. I am pleased to now 
welcome Heidi Roizen onto the Board 
bringing invaluable experience, insight and 
skills from her career in Silicon Valley. 
Likewise, I would like to personally thank Nick 
Jennings who stood down as Company 
Secretary after 24 years of service over a time 
of immense change and progress for the 
Group. We welcome Claire Chapman, who 
joined us in September, as DMGT's first 
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Read more about Corporate 
Governance on page 48 
PADRAIC FALLON
It is with great sadness that we say goodbye 
to Padraic Fallon who passed away on 
13th October, 2012. A creative force, a genius 
journalist and a talented businessman, 
Padraic worked with the Group for over 40 
years. Aged 28 he moved from his role as a 
financial journalist for the Daily Mail to 
become Editor and then Executive Director, 
Managing Director and finally Chairman of 
Euromoney, building a phenomenally 
successful brand that defined and set the 
pace, globally, for financial publishing. A 
gifted writer and a much-loved friend, his 
approach to life was underpinned by his 
inimitable Irish character and flair. He will be 
sorely missed by us all. Our thoughts are with 
his wife and four children.
The v iscount Rothermere 
Chairman Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 09
Directors' Report
Governance
Financial Statements
REMuNERATION 
Earlier this year, we discussed some changes 
to our executive reward policy with our 
shareholders. These are set out in detail in our 
Remuneration Report. It is vitally important 
that the incentives offered to our senior 
leadership team are clearly aligned with the 
interests of our shareholders in promoting our 
long-term success, stability and growth. 
At an individual business level our long-term 
incentive plans are designed to share the 
value created by the leaders of those 
businesses in a way that supports our 
innovative and entrepreneurial culture by 
promoting an ownership mindset within  
the business. 
Read our full Remuneration Report  
on page 66
RISK MANAGEMENT 
We continue to apply a proactive approach 
to risk management across the Group, 
applying appropriate criteria and risk 
management best practices for the various 
areas in which we operate. Our Risk 
Committee has oversight and management 
of significant risks around the Group and 
regularly reports to the Board. 
 See page 52 of the Corporate 
Governance report for further 
information on risk management
NORThCLIFFE MEDIA
At the end of November 2012 we announced 
an historic transaction. After more than 90 
years of regional newspaper ownership, we 
agreed to sell Northcliffe Media to a powerful 
new group - Local World - to ensure a 
sustainable future for our 77 regional titles 
and numerous local websites. This transaction 
will enable management to focus resources 
on our world-class national newspapers, our 
expanding digital media operations and our 
important B2B and consumers businesses.
TEChNOLOGy AND INNOvATION
Over the past decade we have seen an 
astonishing pace of change, in consumer 
habits and business focus. At the heart of  
this is technology: offering businesses and 
consumers ever-increasing choice, speed 
and flexibility. That pace of change is only 
going to increase.
I believe that DMGT's future lies in its ability  
to respond to this opportunity, investing in 
products and services that harness the 
potential of the very best technological 
advances. We are committed to embracing 
innovative solutions to the treatment and 
sharing of data that is vital, live and 
personally relevant, whether in a business-to-
business or a consumer capacity.
The single fastest-growing medium in the 
world is mobile. That is why it will remain  
a key focus in every step of our strategic 
development and we will continue to invest 
time and resources to maximise its potential. 
Its effect on how people connect with each 
other and with the world around them, will 
revolutionise how we lead our lives. The 
opportunity it gives us to deepen and 
enhance the relationships we have with our 
customers is unprecedented. This is 
something that I am personally keen to 
promote across the Group so that the free 
flow and sharing of ideas underpins how  
we embrace change and the pace at which 
we progress. We have already had some 
significant successes with mobile, heralding 
much more to come.
PEOPLE AND CuLTuRE
In February we took senior management 
from across the Group to Bangalore to 
discuss and shape the future. I would like to 
thank so many of our non-executive directors 
for attending and for their active involvement 
in the debate about our future strategy. 
Personally, I found seeing the wealth and 
depth of talent, the creativity and potential of 
the ideas, and the quality and relevance of 
the discussions deeply inspiring. The event set 
a very clear vision for DMGT as a global 
growth company, driven by pride in our 
products and services, belief in the people 
who work in the Group and the courage  
to think innovatively and entrepreneurially. 
A crucial part of our culture is rooted in 
personal responsibility: each and every 
person in the Group has an individual role  
to play in our future success. Our organic 
growth, our ability to innovate internally and 
our proactive approach all testify to the 
entrepreneurial spirit that sits at the heart of 
DMGT. This strength also drives our ability to 
endure and prosper despite intense global 
pressures and I would like to applaud and 
congratulate staff across DMGT on the past 
year's growing profits.
It is a great source of pride for me that DMGT 
is defined by the high calibre of its talent.  
As a Group we will continue to champion 
and nurture that talent, bringing on the next 
generation of exceptional business leaders 
with the skills and experience to deliver our 
strategy. We have the momentum, the 
knowledge and the hunger to achieve  
great things.
The v iscount Rothermere 
Chairman