  2 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Overview
2010 saw good progress by the Group as we focused 
on range cookers and kitchen living despite the exacting 
conditions and our core consumer markets remaining 
subdued. Particular features of the year were:
  	 The restoration of revenue growth - up nearly 6% at  259.1 
million - with positive trend lines continuing through the year.
 	 The appreciable improvement in operating profits before 
amortisation to  6.9 million (2009:  0.1 million) and  5.1 
million (2009:  1.5 million loss) after amortisation. 
 	 The further strengthening of our net cash position to 
 34.6 million from  28.0 million a year ago meaning 
we have seen the Group's net cash balances increase by 
nearly  29 million in the last two years.
 	 The further integration and streamlining of our operations 
boosting operational gearing as we use our Rangemaster 
developed business processes across the Group. This 
was seen with AGA and Rangemaster in the UK and 
Heartland and Marvel in North America.
 	 There is now a net surplus in the pension schemes on an 
accounting basis and the indications are that the deficit 
has fallen appreciably on an actuarial basis.
 	 The product development work of recent years is now 
bringing substantial benefits seen, for example, with 
induction ranges and with the new Rangemaster 100cm 
lines. We expect new products to make a substantial 
impact in 2011.
These factors taken together underpin the confidence of the 
board in both the resilience and the prospects for the Group 
which is reflected in the restoration of dividend payments.
Trading performance in 2010
2010 saw a steady pick up in the level of sales with revenues 
of  259.1 million, up nearly 6% at the full year having been 
up 4.8% at the half year. Of sales in 2010, 63% were in the 
UK and 37% internationally as we look to progress towards 
our 50% KPi target for international sales.
Profits increased as the operational gearing benefits of 
higher revenues showed through. in the year there was 
also a significant curtailment gain arising from the freezing 
of final salaries in the pension scheme which amounted to 
 16.3 million. T aking this and other non-recurring items into 
account profit before tax was  19.9 million compared with 
 0.5 million in the prior year.
Given the strengthened financial and cash positions, the 
board is proposing a final dividend per share of 1.0 pence for 
the year bringing the total for the year to 1.7 pence per share.
Strategic progress
The board's first objective since the market turned down 
sharply in the second half of 2008 has been to secure the 
position of the Group through tight financial management - 
the importance of the task heightened by the relative size of 
the operations and the pension scheme.
The cost cutting actions made early in the recession have 
been followed up with a series of steps to integrate our 
operations more closely in order to achieve efficiency 
improvements. These have worked well. The cost base 
is now significantly lower than it was heading into the 
recession and we have 20% fewer employees than three 
years ago. We expect over 40% of incremental revenue to 
feed into operating profits. We have also kept our focus on 
the well-established positions and the continuing potential 
of our brands to see how they can continue to generate the 
growth necessary to create the value increases expected by 
our shareholders.   
CHAi RMAN'S STATEMENT  AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3
Our plans to develop the business are then reflected in the 
progress made at Rangemaster. Since the repositioning in 
2002 the brand and operation has moved from breakeven 
to delivering the Group's KPi target of 10% return on sales. 
We have a factory in Leamington Spa which uses modern 
robotics to ensure our cooking cavities are the best in 
the sector. We are the first range cooker manufacturer to 
receive Energy Saving T rust certification across all its dual 
fuel and induction cookers. Progress continues to come 
from product innovation. We have succeeded in making 
induction a mainstream rather than a specialist technology 
due to the price points we have and it now accounts for 
almost 10% of Rangemaster cooker volumes. Progress 
comes from closely working with our dealers - over 200 
of which have Rangemaster Design Centres - and we have 
expanded the brand offering so that for every pound spent 
on Rangemaster cookers in the UK a further 30 pence is 
spent on other Rangemaster appliances. Growth also comes 
from international expansion with almost a quarter of cooker 
sales volumes being outside Britain. We are now looking to 
raise that proportion to over 30%.
We believe that our cast iron cooker portfolio will see sales 
growth as our product development programmes align our 
products with changing consumer needs. Research shows 
that it is the combination of a  warm welcome home' 
alongside cooking quality that has attracted generations 
of households to AGA, Rayburn and Stanley. With the 
modern programmable AGA in particular, the AGA is more 
flexible operationally and will, in future, become still more 
so. The electric AGA can play a part in helping make use 
of renewable energy generated locally - a key way to avoid 
the transmission losses suffered by the electricity grid. With 
Rayburn and Stanley we have added condensing boilers and 
more adaptable fluing as we drive the idea harder of having a 
single appliance at the heart of the home providing cooking, 
hot water and central heating. Here again our engineers 
have worked out how to make our products part of a  
system incorporating renewables - through our Eco- 
Connect packages. We also have in place an installation 
arrangement with the Mark Group for solar hot water and 
solar electric panels.  
We believe that customers want to buy a wider range of 
complementary products for their home and in particular, 
kitchen needs - hence our ownership of Fired Earth and 
Grange. Fired Earth has struggled for some years to be 
profitable in spite of being widely appreciated for its product 
leadership and brand. We have now narrowed the product 
focus of Fired Earth keeping tiles as the dominant range and 
have supplemented our offering through the  Tile Basics' 
range which widens the pricing spectrum. Our KPi remains 
to return Fired Earth and Grange to overall profitability and 
progress has been made during the year. 
We also took the further step to help ensure Fired Earth 
achieves its KPi target by bringing in the experienced retailer 
and venture capitalist, Andrew Manders, to run Fired Earth 
on an interim basis and to assess a long-term operational 
framework for the business. Fired Earth now operates off a 
lower fixed cost base with higher net margins reducing the 
run rate of losses - although sales revenues are flat.   
Kitchens are also a key part of the Grange and Fired Earth's 
product portfolio and Charlie Smallbone has also developed 
three new kitchen ranges for them - made by Grange in 
France. They are helping to attract a wider and energetic 
range of dealers internationally to the Grange brand. The 
idea of showing a complete kitchen including appliances 
may prove to be the model for the future for AGA, La Cornue 
and Grange in international markets as well as for Fired 
Earth in the UK.
Cara insert stove AGA Rayburn solar panels  4 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
People
The enthusiasm and energy of our employees has been a 
particular feature of the year. We have adapted well to new 
ideas and processes that will ensure we are competitive 
and have the quality and innovative products required by  
our customers. 
Peter T om left the board after six years in which he made 
a major contribution to the Group's strategic development, 
latterly as senior non-executive director. He was replaced 
by Paul Dermody as senior non-executive director, and Jon 
Carling whose career has been in design and engineering 
within the premium car industry - notably Jaguar and 
Aston Martin - and who has recently joined Rolls-Royce 
aero-engine operations.
Current trading
The reduced cost base and increased efficiencies made over 
the past three years means that the Group's operational 
gearing should, with revenue growth, bring good progress. 
We have planned for continuing growth in revenue. 
However, as the factors affecting trading (the UK housing 
market and consumer confidence) remain fragile, we are 
ready to respond to difficult market conditions. Our new 
product launches will, we expect, have a positive impact. 
The focus on cash management and costs in recent years 
will be sustained.
AGA and Rayburn started 2011 encouragingly, with strong 
marketing and product launch programmes in place, already 
reflected in lead generation and home survey numbers. We 
expect the 2010 bounce-back in sales to be sustained. For 
Fired Earth the stronger end to 2010 has given way to a more 
volatile start in 2011. Our upgraded transactional website is 
performing encouragingly. Rangemaster has had a sound 
start to 2011, with UK orders satisfactory so far this year and 
more progress being achieved on the continent. The North 
American markets continue to be quiet. 
We have confidence in the strategic direction we have taken 
in recent years - even though our consumer markets have 
been buffeted by challenging economic conditions. The 
systematic work to improve our operations and the focus on 
niches in our market places where we can expand our market 
positions with relevant and exciting products does provide 
expectations for strengthened financial performance. We, 
therefore, expect 2011 to be a year of clear cut progress. 
John Coleman
Chairman
11th March 2011
CHAi RMAN'S STATEMENT CONTi NUED  4 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Induction cooking is becoming mainstream in the UK, and is 
available across the Rangemaster, Falcon and Mercury brands 
demonstrating our ability to develop and apply patentable 
technology.
Renowned for its energy efficiency, induction cooking offers 
consumers a safe, cool cooking option that is feature rich, 
incredibly flexible and more responsive than other options. 
All Rangemaster induction models are the first and only ovens 
and hobs to date to receive Energy Saving T rust certification.
The efficiency of an induction hob depends on a number of 
factors and the choice of cookware is key. Cookware sold by 
AGA and Divertimenti is a significant part of our product 
offering. With sales growing rapidly online, 2010 was a 
strong year. The high recognition of Divertimenti as London's 
premier cookware outlet is underpinned by our successful 
cookery schools which attract many top chefs to lead classes 
each term.
 AGA Rangemaster Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5