 2
DART GROUP PLC
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report on the Group's trading for the year
ended 31 March 2005.
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, amounted to  14.0m (2004 restated -  9.6m)
whilst profit before tax but after goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items amounted to  8.5m
(2004 restated -  11.3m). Turnover was  268m
(2004 -  228.2m). Earnings per share before the
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items were
27.96p  (2004 restated - 19.04p). The Board is
recommending a final dividend of 4.70p (2004 - 4.26p),
taking the total dividend for the year to 6.74p (2004 -
6.11p), an increase of 10.3%. The dividend, if approved,
will be payable on 19 August 2005 to shareholders on
the register on 24 June 2005.
Capital expenditure for the year amounted to  51.6m 
(2004 -  28.4m) and mainly related to the acquisition,
maintenance and upgrade of the Boeing 737-300 fleet.  
At 31 March 2005 the Group had net cash on deposit of
 2.4m (net borrowings at 31 March 2004 of  15.0m).
In excess of 90% of the 2005/06 Jet2.com fuel requirements
have been hedged at average rates lower than the current
market price. No fuel has yet been hedged in respect of 
the 2006/07 requirement. Neither the Aviation Services
Division's contract charter operations nor the Distribution
Division currently has any material exposure to oil price risk
as this is substantially covered in our commercial contracts.
In my letter to shareholders, dated 22 March 2005, I indicated
that a full review of the Group's aircraft intercompany leasing
and maintenance arrangements would be undertaken with
KPMG. This exercise has now been completed and has
resulted in some accounting policy changes.
In previous years, the Group's policy has been to borrow 
US Dollars to finance US Dollar assets, namely Boeing 737-
300 aircraft.  We have reviewed this policy and the Board
has taken advantage of the relative weakness of the
US Dollar against Sterling and bought US $161m
in order to pay off its US Dollar denominated debt.
Accordingly, the Board will now account for all of its
aircraft in   Sterling and, where necessary, finance them
in   Sterling.  
This policy change has given rise to a substantial realised
currency gain on our US Dollar borrowings which has been 
offset by additional depreciation charges and an impairment
charge on the carrying value of our Boeing 737 fleet, when
translated into Sterling.  A number of detailed changes have
also been made to our internal aircraft maintenance
accounting arrangements.  
The total financial effect of these changes, including the
exceptional gain on the disposal of our Fokker F27 aircraft
and the incremental Boeing 737 impairment in 2005, is a
cumulative increase in pre-tax profit of  1.3m. The changes
have resulted in a current year exceptional charge of  5.0m
and a prior year exceptional credit of  2.3m. In addition,
the policy changes contributed  0.6m to the 2005 profit
before exceptional items  and  0.5m to the 2004 profit
before exceptional items restated . The balance of  2.9m
relates to 2003 and earlier years.
After careful consideration, the Board has concluded that
the interests of the Company are best served by a move
from the Official List to AIM, a market operated by the
London Stock Exchange. Whilst the Company will continue
to be subject to the regulatory and disciplinary controls of
the London Stock Exchange, the Board believes that AIM's
less onerous regulatory framework is more suited to the 3
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
entrepreneurial style of the Company. The transfer to AIM
should also reduce the Company's annual costs associated
with having its shares quoted and the potential future 
costs of some capital transactions.  In addition, shares
traded on AIM are deemed to be unlisted for the purpose 
of certain areas of taxation law, which may be of benefit 
to shareholders.
The Board has commenced the process to effect this 
transfer to AIM. Notice is being given of our intention to
cancel the listing of the Company's shares on the Official
List and application will be made as soon as practicable for
the shares to be admitted to trading on AIM. Cancellation 
of the listing and admission to trading on AIM are expected
to be effected on 15 August 2005.  On the transfer to AIM,
Collins Stewart Limited will continue to be our stockbroker
and Smith & Williamson Corporate Finance Limited will also
continue to advise the Company, becoming nominated
adviser under the AIM Rules.
The Group has continued to build its business-to-business
services and to develop Jet2.com - our low cost passenger
airline business. The activities of the Group's two divisions
are more fully described in the Review of Operations that
follows this statement on pages 6 to 9.
Aviation Services
The Group currently operates 24 Boeing 737-300 aircraft
(20 owned) and three Airbus A300 Eurofreighters 
(two owned). The recent Boeing 737-300 passenger to
freighter Quick Change  conversion programme is now
complete, with our Quick Change aircraft operating
night-time postal flights for Royal Mail and charters
and scheduled passenger services during the day.
We are very pleased to be a prime provider of aircraft
services to the Royal Mail Postal Air Network and value our
longstanding contractual relationship. At the same time
our Airbus A300 Eurofreighters  give reliable and
economical contract services to the overnight express
parcels industry, a business in which the Group has a
long-standing reputation.
Jet2.com (a trading name of Channel Express (Air
Services)) continues to develop its low cost services 
from Leeds Bradford International and Belfast International
Airports. In December 2004 it also commenced operations
from Manchester International Airport where seven aircraft
now operate 13 UK domestic and European city break, sun
and ski routes. Competition at Manchester is considerable,
however, we believe that there are opportunities for
profitable development. Jet2.com carried over 1.3m
passengers in the financial year and made a useful
contribution to the Group's profits.  
On 16 May, the Group announced the purchase of two
Boeing 757-200 aircraft which will enter into service this
autumn. These aircraft, which will carry 235 passengers 
as opposed to the 148 passenger capacity of the Boeing
737-300, will be utilised on our most popular routes.
Benair Freight International, the Group's freight 
forwarder experienced an excellent year of record sales 
and profits. The company's performance has benefited 
from growth in its air and sea freight business with its 
key overseas partners, particularly in the USA, and an
increased focus on costs. The business also continues to
develop its niche sectors especially the importation of
ornamental and tropical fish and its other time-sensitive
services. 4
DART GROUP PLC
Chairman's Statement
continued
For further information about Dart Group PLC and its subsidiary companies
please visit our website, www.dartgroup.co.uk
Distribution 
After two years of rationalisation and re-organisation by 
the management team, Fowler Welch-Coolchain, the
Group's temperature-controlled transport and distribution
operation, has during the year gained substantial additional
business from both existing and new customers. The
company is particularly pleased to have recently won
storage, picking and distribution contracts that efficiently
increase the utilisation of both its temperature-controlled
storage facilities and the distribution network.
With a 660 vehicle temperature-controlled fleet and an
experienced management team and workforce, committed
to the provision of quality but cost effective services for its
customers, we believe that our Distribution operations are
now well positioned for future growth.  Operations from
Maasland (The Netherlands), Portsmouth, Teynham (Kent),
Spalding (Lincs) and Gateshead (Tyne & Wear) are
strategically located to provide temperature-controlled
international transportation and nationwide storage and
distribution services.  Opportunities are being vigorously
pursued and there is reason for considerable optimism 
for the future.
The Group's Channel Islands' based business, Channel
Express (CI), has had a successful year but, subsequently,
has lost some turnover.  However, the company has a good
base for future development and opportunities for growth
are being explored.
Our Staff
The overall growth in the volume and profitability of the
Group's activities is a reflection of the enthusiasm and 
drive of our management and staff.  We are fortunate to
have the services of excellent employees at every level 
and are grateful to each of them for their individual
contributions to our success.
Outlook
Whilst our businesses are generally buoyant, the longer 
term exposure of our low cost airline to the uncertainty
of fuel prices is cause for some concern. However, I am
pleased to report that current trading remains in line 
with our budgets and expectations.
Philip Meeson 
Chairman 16 June 2005
A Review of Operations follows on pages 6 to 9. 5
ANNUAL REPORT 2005