 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  04 05
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors' Report: Our Performance
Chairman's Statement
We believe that we are well positioned to ensure  
future solid growth is maintained and Shareholder  
value enhanced 
Michael Redmond, Chairman
Consistent Double Digit Earnings Growth
The Group has achieved its fifth successive year of double 
digit underlying earnings growth and made significant strategic 
progress during the year. T wo acquisitions, which will be 
earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership, have 
been completed and integrated into the business, our branded 
products have continued to outperform the market, several 
new products have been launched and our international scope 
has increased. Furthermore, we have continued to make 
advancements with our product development pipeline and have 
increased investment in people and infrastructure to ensure 
growth is sustained in the future.
Financial Highlights
Revenue increased by 5.4% from  369.4 million to  389.2 
million; underlying operating profit increased by 12.9% from 
 28.2 million to  31.8 million. The increase in underlying 
operating margin from 7.6% to 8.2% is a reflection of 
the growth of our high margin pharmaceutical business, 
particularly in the USA.
The underlying net finance expense was  1.8 million 
compared to  2.1 million in 2010. Additional net foreign 
exchange gains of  0.8 million were partially offset by 
interest on additional bank borrowings to finance the 
DermaPet
 
 and Genitrix
 
 acquisitions.
 
Underlying profit before taxation increased by 15.4% from 
 26.1 million to  30.1 million whilst underlying earnings per 
share rose by 16.4% from 29.50 pence to 34.33 pence.
Reported operating profit was  21.7 million (2010:  19.9 million) 
whilst profit before taxation was  18.5 million (2010:  17.7 
million). Reported earnings per share was 21.33 pence (2010: 
19.97 pence).
After a cash outflow in the first half of the financial year, there 
was a strong cash inflow in the second half with net borrowings 
reducing from  49.6 million at 31 December 2010 to  34.1 
million at 30 June 2011. The increase from  6.7 million at  
30 June 2010 is due to the acquisitions made during the year.
Dividend
In line with our progressive dividend policy and our 
confidence in the business, the Directors are recommending 
an increase in the final dividend to 8.40 pence per share 
(2010: 7.20 pence per share). This, together with the interim 
dividend of 3.70 pence per share (2010: 3.30 pence per 
share), makes a total dividend for the year of 12.10 pence 
per share (2010: 10.50 pence per share), a 15.2% increase.
The total dividend is covered 2.6 times by profit after 
taxation after adding back amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (2010: 2.6 times).
The final dividend, which is subject to Shareholder approval at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 4 November 
2011, will be paid on 25 November 2011 to Shareholders on 
the Register at 11 November 2011. The date shares become 
ex-dividend is 9 November 2011.
People
There have been no senior management changes during 
the year; however, there have been a number of changes 
in respect of our Non-Executive Board members. Following 
ten years of service, Malcolm Diamond MBE retired as 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee in November 2010. We 
would like to thank Malcolm for his valued support and 
contribution to the business over this period. Dr Chris 
Richards was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive  
Director from 1 December 2010. Chris is currently Chairman 
of Arysta LifeScience Corporation, the world's largest 
privately owned crop protection company. He brings  
with him over 20 years of international management 
experience. Neil Warner has undertaken the role of Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Bryan Morton  
has assumed the role of Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  04 05
Directors' Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors' Report: Our Performance
On behalf of the Board and our Shareholders I would like to 
thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication 
throughout the year.
Corporate Governance
During the year the Board has focused on consolidating the 
medium to long term strategy of the business to ensure that 
the Group continues to deliver and maintain value for our 
stakeholders (detail in respect of this is covered on page 8 
of the Chief Executive's Review). As Chairman, one of my 
prime roles is to ensure that the Board has the right mix of 
skills and experience to assist the Executive Directors in the 
progression and implementation of this Group strategy.
During the year a detailed internal board evaluation 
programme was undertaken. The process was well received 
by the Directors and a number of constructive suggestions 
were highlighted which should assist in strengthening the 
Board over the coming year. The evaluation highlighted the 
enthusiasm and ambition of the Board to continue to grow 
the business. Further detail in relation to how the evaluation 
was carried out can be found in the Corporate Governance 
Report on page 46.
Prospects
Although footfall through veterinary practices has declined 
and the general economic climate remains uncertain we are 
continuing to demonstrate solid growth in markets in which 
we trade. Our branded product range, the focus of our key 
strategic objective, continues to grow strongly.  
To sustain this growth we have increased investment in 
product development, extended the geographies in which 
we operate, acquired complementary businesses and 
increased the number of people within sales and marketing.  
We believe, therefore, that we are well positioned to ensure 
future solid growth is maintained and Shareholder value 
enhanced.
Michael Redmond
Chairman
6 September 2011 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  06 07
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Dermatology
It is estimated that around 20% of all 
small animal veterinary consultations 
relate to dermatological problems, i.e. 
skin diseases, allergies, otitis externa, 
seborrhoeic dermatitis and surface 
pyoderma are amongst the most 
commonly diagnosed dermatological 
conditions.
What is Otitis Externa?
It is inflammation of the skin of the external ear canal. 
Many factors can contribute to this disease including 
irritation caused by allergic skin disease, ear mites, 
foreign bodies, and secondary infection with bacteria 
or yeasts. As so many factors are involved, this disease 
can be challenging to manage; some cases require 
repeat treatment and/or a long term management plan. 
Ear cleaning can form a vital part of the management of 
this disease.
Dogs and cats with otitis externa usually show signs 
of obvious pain or discomfort. They scratch and shake 
their heads and there is also often a smelly discharge 
from their ears. The disease is easily diagnosed by 
examining the animal and inspecting the ear canal. Vets 
will also often examine a swab taken from the ear (under 
a microscope), before selecting the appropriate therapy.
Canaural
 
, Dechra's branded prescription 
pharmaceutical, is licensed for the treatment of  
otitis externa in both dogs and cats. It is effective 
against microbes most commonly associated with 
otitis externa and ear mites.
What is Seborrhoeic Dermatitis? 
This is a condition where an overgrowth of the normally 
present yeasts and bacteria occurs resulting in dandruff 
like flaking. It is usually caused by an underlying primary 
problem such as an allergy, endocrine disease or 
parasites. This is a very itchy disorder with red inflamed 
scaly skin; affected animals can also have a strong 
unpleasant odour.  
Diagnosis of the disease is generally easy, based on 
an examination of a skin sample under a microscope.  
Diagnosis of the underlying disorder can be more 
difficult, sometimes impossible. Treatment therefore may 
need to be long term to prevent recurrence. Malaseb
 
 
shampoo is licensed for the treatment of dogs with 
seborrhoeic dermatitis.
What is Surface Pyoderma? 
It is a bacterial infection on the surface of the skin, 
most commonly seen in dogs. There are two distinct 
types:
l  Acute moist dermatitis: the root cause is 
unclear, but is often a trauma, such as a flea bite, 
that causes the dog to lick, scratch or chew its 
skin, resulting in an intensely itchy, red inflamed 
area with a sticky discharge matting the fur. 
l  Skin fold dermatitis: common in obese dogs and 
breeds with prominent skin folds. Lesions develop 
in the fold as a result of friction between the skin 
surfaces often causing the skin inside the fold to be 
itchy, red and malodorous.
 
Diagnosis is normally based on the clinical signs 
identified. Clipping the hair and washing the affected 
areas are important to increase skin ventilation and 
remove any debris. However, appropriate antibiotic 
therapy, such as Dechra' s unique pharmaceutical 
Fuciderm  Gel, will target the bacterial infection.
Directors' Report: Our Performance
Case Study Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  06 07
Directors' Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors' Report: Our Performance