 The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2009 02
Chairman's statement
This has been a very challenging year for The 600 Group PLC. 
We have, however, met these challenges head on and made 
significant strides towards creating a platform from which 
to build a profitable future for the Group.
We entered the year facing a downturn in our main 
markets and, as serious problems with the Group's 
supply chain began to emerge, it became apparent 
that a radical overhaul of the business was required. 
David Norman accepted the role of Group Chief Executive 
in August 2008, undertaking responsibility to review all 
the Group's operations in order to deliver an achievable 
and rapid turnaround strategy.
The strategic review was completed in January 2009 
and a full restructuring of the Group commenced. The first 
phase, the major cost reduction programme outlined in 
the Interim Management Statement dated 3 February 2009, 
was achieved ahead of schedule in May 2009. The Board 
expects that the second phase, commenced in June 2009, 
which consists of further cost reductions and the integration 
of business units and functions will be substantially complete 
by the end of September 2009.
Results
Overall, sales for the year reduced by 2% to  76.2m 
(2008:  77.4m) although underlying sales reduced by 7% 
after taking into account the effect of a one-off major 
aerospace contract undertaken in the first half of the year. 
Gross profit margins reduced to 27% (2008: 29%) as a 
result of the adverse impact of the aerospace contract and 
currency movements. Other operating income included the 
 0.3m benefit in respect of the sale and leaseback of our 
Colchester and Halifax properties. Other operating expenses 
were  29.9m (2008:  22.9m) including restructuring costs 
of  5.2m, costs in relation to closed operations of  0.5m 
and an impairment charge for intangible assets of  0.4m. 
The restructuring costs relate to the previously announced 
programme of redundancies, an extensive reorganisation 
of the Group's structure and impairment of inventory 
and receivables.
The Group's loss from operations before net financial 
income and tax was  8.3m (2008: operating profit of 
 0.3m). As anticipated, net financial income for the year 
reduced significantly to  0.3m (2008:  2.3m) due to the 
UK Pension Scheme moving to de-risk its assets.
Loss before tax was, therefore,  8.0m (2008: profit before 
tax of  2.5m). The discontinued costs of  1.3m (2008:  1.8m) 
relate to the closure of operations in Canada. The basic and 
diluted loss per share for continuing operations was 13.3p 
(2008: earnings per share of 3.3p and 3.2p respectively).
As anticipated, the net cash balance of  3.2m in 2008 
reduced to net borrowings of  1.5m in 2009 due to costs 
incurred in restructuring.
In accordance with FRC guidelines, the Board has assessed 
the Group's funding and liquidity position and concluded that 
the going concern basis for the preparation of its accounts 
continues to be appropriate.
This has been a very challenging year for The 600 Group PLC. We have, 
however, met these challenges head on and made significant strides towards 
creating a platform from which to build a profitable future for the Group. accounts corporate governance review of the year 
03 The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2009
Dividend
We have previously stated that dividend payments will be 
directly related to our results. The Board does not consider 
it is appropriate to pay a dividend at the present time.
Progress
I believe we have made substantial progress in reshaping 
the Group and positioning it for the future. We needed to 
cut the Group's costs dramatically and deliver a sustainable 
improvement in the efficiency of our business, particularly 
in the use of cash. This meant that we had to change our 
Group structure and management, reduce the number of 
sites and overhaul the supply chain.
David Norman's first task was to review senior management. 
Numbers were inevitably reduced but, pleasingly, he managed 
to establish a new team with the experience and energy 
to take us forward predominantly from our existing staff. 
You will read in his Group Chief Executive's report that 
we aggressively addressed our cost base during the year 
under review and continue to do so. Our product strategies, 
which were having a major impact on our costs and our 
reputation as a leading machine tools producer, were also 
addressed. We made the decision to leave our chosen 
Chinese partner, The Dalian Machine Tool Group, and have 
sourced products and components elsewhere. This was 
a challenging but necessary action, which needed careful 
handling to avoid further costs and disruption to our supply 
lines. The number of sites operated by the Group were also 
reduced and the sales force is being shaped into a more 
focused and cost effective team. 
Such fundamental reshaping of the business incurs costs. 
I am pleased to report that we have been able to fund this 
from within our existing overdraft facilities and through the 
release of cash which was locked inside the business. Our 
action has, however, significantly impacted the balance sheet 
(split in similar proportions between legacy costs, ceased 
operations and operational activity). This should not affect 
our ability to move forward in the short term and will result 
in a very different and more sustainable platform for the Group. 
Improvements to the balance sheet will, however, now be 
both a necessity and a priority as we move forward.
Separately we will continue to address the issue of the 
Pension Fund, which is significant in terms of size and 
impact, and we are working closely with the Trustee to 
further de-risk its asset holdings.
Strategy
The new business platform we have developed has 
provided us with an opportunity to review our overall 
business strategy. We continue to see machine tools 
and lathes products as our core business and the UK, 
Continental Europe and North America remain our key 
strategic markets. There are real opportunities to build 
on our strong brands in these product areas and exploit 
our engineering and manufacturing expertise to a much 
greater extent than achieved in recent years. We will 
concentrate on the Group's branded products, take much 
more control of our own manufacturing and shorten 
our supply lines. The challenging global economy has 
weakened many companies in our product or associated 
product areas and, we believe, this will present us with 
opportunities to expand the business over and above 
our own organic growth.
I believe we have made substantial progress in reshaping 
the Group and positioning it for the future. We needed to 
cut the Group's costs dramatically and deliver a sustainable 
improvement in the efficiency of our business, particularly 
in the use of cash. The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2009 04
Chairman's statement/continued
People
The Board relishes these prospects but they will, of course, 
present us with new challenges. To assist the Group's 
progress there will be one further change to our Board. 
Jonathan Kitchen has informed me that he will retire at the 
Annual General Meeting on 25 September 2009. He has 
given outstanding service to the Group for a number of 
years and I, in particular, am grateful for his wise counsel 
over my relatively short period as Chairman. 
I am pleased to announce that Chris Cundy, Commercial 
Director of VT Group, has agreed to join the Board with 
effect from 1 August 2009, as a non-executive Director. 
He has a wide experience as a finance director in a 
manufacturing and service environment. His breadth 
of knowledge and expertise will be valuable to the Group 
as we move forward over the coming years.
Outlook
The next few months will continue to present us with major 
challenges as our markets remain subdued. Whilst this will 
impact the level of sales revenue, further improvements 
that will deliver a more efficient and effective business are 
either in progress or planned. In addition, the Group's new 
product strategies, which will be implemented over the 
next twelve months, are being finalised. 
Our priorities for the first half of the current year are to 
complete the improvements to our business, return the Group 
to sustainable profitability with a positive cash flow and begin 
the rebuilding of our balance sheet. When we have secured 
these objectives, we will be able to take a bolder approach 
to other market and corporate opportunities. 
The Group has a strong business plan, experienced 
leadership and a much clearer sense of its strategic 
direction. In view of this, the Board believes that the 
Group is in a strong position to take advantage of any 
recovery in our markets and will soon be able to progress 
new and rewarding growth opportunities.
Martin Temple CBE
Chairman
23 June 2009 
Our priorities for the first half of the current year are to complete the 
improvements to our business, return the Group to sustainable profitability 
with a positive cash flow and begin the rebuilding of our balance sheet. 