 03
| Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Business Review Directors' Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Chairman's  
statement
I am delighted to report that 
2011 was a year of further 
growth in the business, 
improved financial 
performance and significant 
progress with our strategy. 
Compared with 2010, 
operating profit before 
exceptional items increased 
15.5% and strong cash flow 
generation enabled net debt 
to be kept to  22.7 million 
despite significant investment 
in capital expenditure during 
the year. The continued strong 
performance has allowed the 
Board to recommend a final 
dividend of 5.5 pence per 
share, bringing the full year 
dividend to 8.0 pence per 
share, a 14.3% increase.
Financial highlights
On a continuing operations basis revenue 
was  227.7 million in 2011 (2010:  213.6 
million), an increase of 6.6%. The 
performance in the second half of the year 
showed an improvement over the first half 
with revenue growing by 10.6% in H2 
compared to 2.4% in H1. Growth in sales to 
Russia and Eastern Europe and the success 
of Select in Japan and Europe have 
particularly contributed to this continued 
improvement.
Operating profit before exceptional items 
increased by 15.5% to  42.7 million (2010: 
 37.0 million). The operating margin 
increased from 17.3% to 18.7% which 
reflects our focus on higher value sales and 
more efficient manufacturing.
Basic earnings per share was 20.8 pence, 
up by 22.4% compared with 17.0 pence in 
2010 (excluding exceptional gains).
As expected, net debt rose to  22.7 million 
at the end of 2011 (2010:  12.2 million) due 
to significant capital expenditure in 2011.
The business renegotiated its banking 
facilities in September 2011 and has new  
5 year revolving facilities of  51 million.
Discontinued operation refers to the sale  
of Devro GmbH which was completed on 
30 September 2011.
Profit before tax and exceptionals rose by 
22.4% to  43.0 million (2010:  35.2 million). 
In 2010 there was an exceptional gain of 
 18.8 million due to changes to the UK 
pension scheme.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
5.5 pence per share (2010: 5.0 pence), 
bringing the total for the year to 8.0 pence 
per share (2010: 7.0 pence). The dividend 
will be paid on 4 May 2012 to those on the 
register on 30 March 2012. The increase in 
the dividend reflects the Board's confidence 
in the group and its financial strength.
The Board retains its policy of reviewing the 
amount distributed annually with the intent 
of moving dividends in line with underlying 
earnings, whilst taking into account the 
future prospects and cash requirements of 
the business.
Business
The global market for collagen casings 
continues to grow, driven by economic 
expansion and increased meat consumption 
in emerging markets. High sheep gut prices 
and limited availability are also providing 
more opportunities in developed markets for 
substitution by collagen casing. 
Our Select range of products, which was 
launched last year specifically to replace 
sheep gut in premium sausages, has made 
excellent progress in Japan and Northern 
Europe. Sales have increased month by 
month and represented 4.3% of total sales 
in 2011. Additional trials are under way and 
Select presents an excellent opportunity for 
further growth in 2012.
In developing markets, we saw further good 
sales growth in Latin America, Eastern 
Europe and Russia. During the year the 
sales team in Hong Kong was strengthened 
and a representative office was opened in 
Beijing. The increased focus has already 
produced higher sales in South East Asia 
and a number of customer trials are 
underway in China.
The year was very much one of two halves 
with earthquakes, floods and severe 
weather affecting the markets and 
production performance in several regions in 
the first half. These were not a factor in the 
second half and the business had a strong 
finish to the year. Yield improvement and 
cost reduction programmes have continued 
to produce benefits and each of our sites 
has been accredited to FS22000, the new 
global standard for food hygiene 
management.
To concentrate further on our core business 
of collagen casings and to strengthen sales 
activities in Europe, Devro GmbH was sold 
to ViskoTeepak Holdings Ab Ltd on 30 
September 2011. This disposal will improve 
group margins by virtually eliminating future 
sales of low margin distributed products.
Steve Hannam Chairman 04
been Chairman of the Audit Committee during 
that time and both in this role, and as a 
director, he has made a valuable and 
committed contribution to the group. I would 
like to thank Stuart for his efforts over the 
years, particularly as he has held full time 
executive roles throughout this time. 
I am delighted to say that Jane Lodge joined 
the Board on 1 March 2012. Until recently 
Jane was a senior audit partner with 
Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years 
advising global manufacturing companies. 
Jane will assume the post of Chair of the 
Audit Committee following the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, when Stuart 
Paterson stands down.
Our approach to Board level recruitment, 
following the publication of the Davies 
Report last year, is set out in the Corporate 
Governance report on pages 22 to 27.
Outlook
The fundamental growth prospects for our 
global markets remain encouraging. With 
our evolving product range and strategic 
capital investment programme, we are  
well placed to take advantage of this 
opportunity. The strong performance
in the second half of 2011 and the  
continuing strength of the balance  
sheet give us confidence for the future.
Steve Hannam
Chairman
Employees
The rate of growth and change in the group 
requires the continuing commitment and 
flexibility of all Devro employees. I am 
delighted to say that they have risen to this 
challenge. From locations across the globe, 
colleagues have worked as one team to 
successfully install the new ERP system. 
During the year we have seen manufacturing 
teams from the USA and Scotland spending 
time in the Czech Republic for training  
on the new production lines, and teams 
from the Czech Republic helping with 
commissioning in the USA and Scotland.
The scale of some of the capital projects 
carried out on sites that continue to 
manufacture has presented new challenges 
for our staff, not least in the area of safe 
working. Their approach to these challenges 
has been commendable.
A single Continental European sales 
organisation has been put in place to 
establish a uniform marketing approach  
and single point of contact for customers. 
This required changes in working practices 
and close contact between various parts of 
the group.
The Board would like to thank all the Devro 
team for their continuing efforts and 
commitment as we continue to raise our 
standards and create a truly global 
company.
Board changes
As announced last year, Simon Webb joined 
the Board on 17 January 2011 and took 
over as Group Finance Director from Peter 
Williams who retired on 6 April 2011.
On 28 April 2011, Paul Withers was 
appointed as an additional Non-Executive 
Director. Paul is an experienced Non-
Executive Director who has a technical 
marketing background with considerable 
exposure to emerging markets, gained 
during his 20 years with BPB plc.
After six years with Devro, Stuart Paterson will 
not be standing for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting on 19 April 2012. Stuart has 
Capital expenditure
2011 was a significant year for capital 
projects with total expenditure of  43.4 
million.
The majority of the expenditure has been  
on replacing old manufacturing lines in 
Scotland with our latest high speed lines 
and preparing an older manufacturing 
building in the Czech Republic for line 
replacement through 2012. The full benefit 
of this will be available in 2013.
During the year we have also installed a  
high speed line in the USA. This has been 
commissioned and is currently trialling 
products suited to the Americas region. If 
successful, we would have the opportunity to 
upgrade our USA production with these lines.
This approach of replacing older lines with 
more efficient modern lines is cost effective 
and low risk. Projects are justified on the cost 
savings made on existing volumes, whilst 
providing additional volumes at low cost.
Two other investments that were 
successfully completed during the year 
include the project to convert Devro to a 
single ERP system. This well managed 
project will now allow us to build on our 
base systems to provide real time 
management and financial information.
In Australia a natural gas powered  
co-generation plant has been installed 
which will reduce energy costs and carbon 
emissions.
Safety
The Board has continued to place a 
considerable emphasis on safety with  
the Health and Safety Committee having 
regular direct contact with the Safety 
Committees at each of our sites. During visits 
to two sites the whole Board participated in 
behavioural audits. There is great commitment 
to safety across the group and during the year 
we operated without lost day incidents for 
periods of up to six months. It therefore 
continues to be disappointing that a number 
of small incidents resulted in 287 lost days, 
albeit a substantial improvement on last year.
Chairman's  
statement continued
04