 10 11
In October 2008 the Group secured 
 4m of additional banking facilities 
through a  2m increase in the 
existing revolving credit facility and an 
additional  2m term loan repayable 
over three years. This allowed the 
Group to complete the acquisitions of 
CyberDMG, GasboxDMG and Prodant.
Full details of the financial structure 
of the acquisitions are given in Note 
13 to the financial statements and  
the Group's borrowings in Note 19.  
At the year end the Group had 
available  7.1m undrawn borrowing 
facilities taking into account credit 
cash balances.
The consolidated cash flow statement 
shows the Group to be cash generative 
with net cash inflow from operating 
activities of  5.7m. 
As at 31 March 2009, the Group had 
net debt of  5.9m.
At the beginning of 2008/9 we set 
ourselves the following KPIs:
 	 	 Each business is expected to achieve 
sufficient growth in gross profits 
to enable us to deliver our EPS 
performance targets without having 
to overly rely on cutting costs.
 	 	 The Group is expected to 
continue to deliver strong levels of 
incremental gross profits through 
cross referrals and co-ordinated 
new business pitches. 
 	 	 We will continue to measure the 
performance of our business through 
 softer' measures such as client 
satisfaction and employee loyalty. 
 	 	 We will continue to rationalise the 
cost base as part of our integration 
plan but will remain focused on 
areas that do not impact on the 
Group's delivery of product and 
service to its clients. 
 	 	 The Group will continue to seek 
industry recognition for the quality of 
its product as a means of attracting 
new clients to the business.
 	 	 The Group will look for new and 
incremental  routes to market' 
either through the creation of new 
products and services or through 
the acquisition of additional skills.
I am therefore extremely pleased to 
report the following:
 	 	 We generated gross profits of 
 3.9m through the existing client 
cross referrals programme. This 
represented approximately 9% of 
our total annual gross profits and 
delivered higher margin returns to 
the Group relative to new business 
generated from new clients.
 	 	 We generated over  13m in gross 
profits from new business, either in 
the form of new work from existing 
clients ( 8m) or from clients not 
previously working with DMG ( 5m).
 	 	 Adjusted basic EPS (profit after tax, 
before amortisation and charges 
for share options) is 8.76p as at 31 
March 2009 (2008: 7.30p) showing 
20% growth year on year.
 	 	 We made good strides in terms of cost 
rationalisation with decisions taken 
achieving over  150,000 of annualised 
savings through co-location of London 
based offices, downsizing of office 
space for Group Finance and sharing 
of finance resource. 
 	 	 We launched eSP, an online  
sales promotion service that uses 
digital campaigns, viral, buzz and 
e-CRM to distribute promotional 
offers, supported by industry-
leading couponing mechanisms 
including secure vouchers and 
mobile couponing.
 	 	 We recently also launched Digital 
Brain:Search and DemographDMG. 
Digital Brain:Search is a unique 
product which combines our search 
marketing and data analysis skills 
to produce more effective results 
for clients. DemographDMG is a 
digital research business geared up 
to provide a wide range of services 
that include:
 - Web usability and accessibility
 -  Digital pre-testing and  
concept testing
 -  Online qualitative and  
quantitative research
 -  Online Brand Health 
benchmarking and tracking
 	 	 We have achieved the following 
industry recognition:
  New Media Age - 3rd in the top 
50 Digital Marketing Agencies in 
the 100 Interactive Agencies Guide 
(September 2008)
  Marketing - 3rd in the Digital 
league (December 2008)
  Campaign - 1st in the UK Digital 
Agencies League, independently 
compiled by Kingston Smith W1 
(January 2009)
  Marketing - 3rd in the Direct 
Marketing and Sales Promotion 
league (March 2009).
Budgetary constraints and the 
changed economic environment meant 
that it was decided to postpone the 
repeat analysis of  softer' measures 
until financial year 2010/11. 
The Internet Advertising Bureau 
(IAB) in conjunction with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) 
produces an annual tracking study which 
represents the official internet advertising 
industry's growth figures (2008 UK 
Online Adspend Study). It therefore 
acts as the barometer for the health of 
the market. It recently confirmed the 
continued growth in importance of online 
marketing and advertising and said that:  
 	 	 Online adspend during 2008 
reached  3,349.7m 
 	 	 Spending on internet advertising 
grew by 17% (on a like-for-like 
basis) when compared with 2007 
 	 	 Online's share has grown to 19.2% 
for 2008, 15.5% for 2007.
New figures from Nielsen Online  
(5 June 2009) also revealed that online 
display ad activity in the UK is up by 
21% compared with last year.
These figures cover the measurable 
parts of online advertising i.e. where 
online media is bought (display, search 
etc) and are therefore not necessarily 
an accurate assessment of the scale 
nor the growth of the entire online 
marketing industry.
One of the chief reasons for the 
continued growth in online advertising 
and marketing is that digital 
interactivity gives marketing clients 
much greater and more identifiable 
returns on their investment which 
we believe will continue to support 
the growth in digital direct marketing 
despite a worsening economic climate.
We believe that digital direct marketing 
will continue to grow and steal share 
from traditional marketing tools such 
as television, press, poster and radio 
advertising for the following key reasons:
 	 	 Measurement: using technology, 
brands can now better measure the 
effectiveness of marketing campaigns 
by tracking online behaviour and 
transactions often in real-time;
 	 	 Data capture: brands can 
develop direct and cost-effective 
communications with customers and 
gain a greater degree of consumer 
data than through traditional 
advertising channels, many of which 
contain no data capture opportunities;
 	 	 Flexibility of medium: online 
campaigns can be adapted at 
very short notice (in some cases in 
real-time) as a result of information 
gleaned from previous marketing, 
which can increase the levels of 
personalisation and enhance ROI in 
the short-term at low cost.
It has, however, been impossible to 
escape the realities of worldwide 
economic recession and, not 
surprisingly, the last few months of 
our financial year proved very difficult. 
Cancellation and delay in client projects 
made planning and visibility of revenue 
challenging and this has continued into 
the first quarter of 2009/10.
Client-side decision making has also 
slowed down considerably. 
Our businesses with clients in the financial 
services sector have been particularly 
affected but the recent downturn has 
not been limited to this sector. 
WPP recently (28 April 2009) announced 
like for like revenues down 6% for the 
first quarter of 2009 reflecting cuts in 
client spending in reaction to the global 
financial and economic crisis. Our 
experience has been similar.
For 2009/10 the Group has therefore 
planned on the assumption that these 
recent declines in client revenues will 
continue. The first half of 2009/10 
will be difficult, with the second half 
likely to improve. Sustainable recovery 
in client confidence is anticipated to 
come in 2010/11. 
By the end of 2009/10 we expect 
online advertising to have grown its 
share of all advertising spend to over 
20%. It is our view that this will be 
the point at which digital marketing 
becomes the lead medium for many 
clients, and given our position as the 
UKs largest digital marketing agency 
we expect to benefit significantly from 
any recovery in marketing spend.
Our key performance indicators for 
2009/10 are as follows:
 	 	 Each business is to focus on 
balancing costs against lower levels 
of gross profits than previously 
anticipated to ensure we continue 
to meet market expectations.
 	 	 We will look to increase 
centralisation of non client-facing 
functions as part of our ongoing 
integration plan. 
 	 	 The Group will continue to seek 
industry recognition as the UK's 
leading digital agency, and for the 
quality of its product as a means  
of attracting new clients.
 	 	 The Group will roll out Digital 
Brain:Search and will create other 
Digital Brain-inspired products. We 
will also launch DemographDMG,  
a new online research agency  
using skills already existent  
within the Group.
 	 	 The Group will create new and 
incremental  routes to market' through 
the hiring of people with specific client 
sector knowledge or expertise, or 
through selective acquisition. 
Liquidity review 
Key Performance Indicators 
C: Data Services
In the year ended 31 March 2009 this segment achieved gross profit of  12.91m and EBITDA before charges  
for share options of  3.92m.
This represents growth in gross profits of 8% year on year and growth in EBITDA before charges for share  
options of 13% year on year.
The data services table above includes the results of Prodant which represents six months' post acquisition trading.  
The acquisition of Prodant is not considered to be significant to the Group in financial terms and hence no separate 
review of its financial performance in the period is given.
 2009 2008
Yr/Yr 
Growth
Data Services  million  million %
Gross profit 12.91 12.01 8%
EBITDA before charges for share options 3.92 3.46 13%
Outlook and Objectives for 2009/10
16877 Annual Report AW.indd   10-11 3/7/09   16:10:37