 Chairman's Statement   
  
*Underlying figures are stated before the share based payment costs and exceptional items (note 5). 
Driver Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 
5 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
I am pleased to report on the Group's performance for 
the financial year 2012 / 2013; a year in which we 
materially outperformed market expectations and 
reached record levels in terms of revenue, profits and 
earnings per share.  Throughout the year we 
continued the positive trends seen in 2011 / 2012, and 
our strong cash generation took us to a net cash 
position at the end of the year. This strength in 
trading, cash generation and continued optimism 
across the business allows us to recommend an 
increase in the final dividend. 
 
As previously stated, our medium term objectives are 
to continue the development of our Oil & Gas and 
Petrochemical offerings across the Middle East, 
America, South East Asia and the UK whilst also 
leveraging our client base and all service offerings 
across each of our global regions. In line with this 
strategic objective, we have invested in America 
locating a Managing Director and recruiting staff in our 
Houston based Project Services business and in Asia 
Pacific we have located a Managing Director and 
recruited staff in our advisory and disputes business 
whilst also opening an office in Australia (Brisbane, for 
the east coast gas market). In Europe we opened 
offices in the UK (Aberdeen, for the oil & gas market) 
and Germany (Munich, to serve heavy engineering and 
infrastructure clients) and in the Middle East we 
expanded our quantity surveying business from Oman 
into the UAE. Encouraging progress is being made in 
line with this strategy and we now have a solid 
platform in all regions from which to increase both 
market share and profitability. The investment should 
bring benefits in the short and medium term as we 
expect utilisation levels to increase and growth from 
America and Asia Pacific and further growth from the 
new offices opened in Aberdeen and Germany. 
 
We continue to attract and retain talented staff who 
provide a service that is market leading; our employee 
and sub-consultant numbers have risen by 25% to 338 
(2012: 271).  At all levels in the Group, our employees 
continue to adapt to the challenges our business has 
encountered through this continued period of growth 
and demanding environments. I would like to thank 
them all for their contribution and dedicated service.  
FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Revenue for the 12 months to 30 September 2013 
increased by 41% to  37.2m (2012:  26.3m) with 
growth being seen by the Group across all regions. 
Broadly half of the growth was as a result of a full 
year's contribution from Trett (acquired in May 2012) 
with the remaining half coming from the continued 
organic growth of the business in Africa, Middle East 
and the UK.   
 
Underlying* profit before taxation increased by 77% to 
 3.1m (2012:  1.75m).  After a cost of share options 
of  482,000 (2012:  135,000) and exceptional items 
at  nil (2012:  418,000) reported profit before 
taxation increased 116% to  2.6m (2012:  1.2m). 
 
The Group's net cash position at the end of the year 
stood at  1.07m (2012: net borrowings  0.96m). 
Cash generated from operations was  2.2m. 
 
Underlying* earnings per share was 10.2 pence 
(2012: 5.5 pence).  Reported earnings per share was 
8.3 pence (2012: 3.3 pence).   
 
DIVIDEND 
In view of the sustained profits and the underlying 
cash inflow in the year, the Board proposes a final 
dividend for 2013 of 1.0p per share (2012: 0.7p) 
giving a full year dividend of 1.5p per share (2012: 
1.0p).  The final dividend will be paid on 8 April 2014 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 28 March 2014. 
 
TRADING OVERVIEW 
The Group's performance, measured against all key 
parameters continues to progress well. Revenue is 
41% higher, underlying pre-tax profit is 77% higher 
and the cash position has increased by  2.03m. This 
has been achieved whilst making key strategic 
investments for the future benefit for the Group, as 
mentioned in my introduction. 
 
The Group is now positioned as a global provider with 
62% of revenue earned on projects outside of the UK 
(2012: 56%). 
 
Trading in Europe, which accounted for 53% of Group 
revenue, was up 22% on 2012 revenues largely as a 
result of a full year's trading from Trett but 
importantly growth also came from our newly opened 
office in Germany, our UK Civil & Infrastructure 
division and our UK Measurement services business. 
This organic growth of our existing businesses is an 
indicator that more projects are being procured. 
Utilisation levels continue to improve as the Trett staff 
are now fully integrated and their historic low levels of 
utilisation are being improved as this business benefits 
from being part of the Group. Overall utilisation in 
Europe was up 2 percentage points on 2012 at 77%. 
With the exception of the newly opened Germany 
office, every part of the business reported an increase 
in utilisation levels. This improvement is something we 
are particularly pleased with. 
 
In the Middle East, trading accounted for 32% of 
Group revenue (2012: 27%) and was up 65% on 2012 
revenues.  Around a third of this growth was from the 
full year's trading of Trett and the majority came from 
organic growth and increasing market share. As set Chairman's Statement continued 
  
 
Driver Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 
6 
out in trading updates through the year,  the region 
continued to significantly outperform management's 
expectations, with strong growth in Dubai, Oman and 
Qatar, primarily through the disputes and advisory 
service and expert witness work.  We have also 
expanded our quantity surveying offering into UAE 
during the year and have seen a pick up in the volume 
of live projects requiring this service.  Dubai grew 
substantially with revenue up 192% primarily in the 
dispute and expert witness market; Oman continues to 
perform well with Government projects providing 
much of the revenue from a healthy pipeline of 
projects with revenue up 52%.  Qatar continues to be 
relatively slow in the development of live project work 
due to delays in the release of projects but revenues 
did increase by 47% in the dispute and expert witness 
market. Utilisation levels were up 8 percentage points 
on 2012 at 84% and every business in the region 
made substantial profits (up 6 percentage points on 
2012). During the year we also investigated 
opportunities in the wider region and will look to 
develop these during the forthcoming year. 
 
Africa's revenue represents 10% of Group revenue 
(2012: 8%) and is up 80% on 2012. The business 
significantly out-performed our budgeted expectations 
in terms of profit levels.  During the year we made 
some senior appointments and latterly acquired the 
minority interest in the business bringing with it two 
further directors as of 1 October 2013. We now have a 
team capable of delivering all of the Group's services 
across sub-Saharan Africa. From a start up in 2011, 
the region became profitable in 2012 and increased 
profits by 48% in 2013. We exit the year with a strong 
senior management team in place and a good base of 
blue chip clients. 
 
Americas (through the Houston office) and Asia Pacific 
(through offices in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore) were 
not performing well when they were acquired as part 
of Trett in May 2012 and this year has been one of 
investment in senior staff and marketing as well as the 
creation of a business in Hong Kong (which 
commenced trading after the year end on 1 October 
2013). America revenues represent less than 2% of 
Group revenue and are up 20% on 2012 following a 
 0.3m investment in the region including a Managing 
Director part way through the year and the 
recruitment of a senior manager both of whom are 
starting to make in-roads into the Oil & Gas sector 
with our Project Services offering. In Asia Pacific, we 
invested  0.7m; we opened an office in Australia 
(Brisbane) local to the gas market on the east coast 
and have invested in a Managing Director for the 
region as well as expert witness calibre staff. Revenue 
in Asia Pacific represents 4.5% of Group revenue and 
is up 203% on 2012. This investment in staff meant 
utilisation levels in America were only 43% down 20 
percentage points on 2012 and in Asia Pacific were 
44% down 5 percentage points on 2012.  
 
OUTLOOK 
Our medium term objectives continue to be the 
development of our Oil & Gas and Petrochemical 
offerings across all regions whilst leveraging our client 
base and all service offerings across each of our global 
regions. We have a senior management team in place 
that can achieve this organically and will continue to 
deliver material growth. We are also aware that 
through targeted acquisitions we can accelerate our 
growth in to the service sectors where we are not 
currently as strong. The Board has a clear strategy 
that details how it is intended to grow the business 
both organically and through acquisition. 
 
We see the coming year as one in which we will 
continue to grow and benefit from the investment 
made in 2013. This growth is likely to come from 
increasing utilisation levels and taking of market share 
in America and Asia Pacific in particular together with 
opportunities to further expand in the Middle East. 
 
We are delighted, across the Group, by the way our 
current financial year has started and particularly in 
Asia Pacific which is showing early signs of benefitting 
from last year's investment.  Europe and the Middle 
East continue with the momentum experienced as we 
exited our last financial year. We have visibility of our 
first quarter performance and our secure work beyond 
the first quarter together with a strong pipeline of 
opportunities ahead which gives the Board a high level 
of confidence in the outlook for the remainder of the 
financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
W. Alan McClue 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
 
 
 