  DRS Data & Research Services plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman's statement
Malcolm Brighton
Chairman
Results
Financial results for 2006 show continued good growth 
in turnover. Profit has increased from that of last year but 
has not maintained the same rate of growth shown at 
the half year. Turnover for the year increased by 34% with 
contributions from two large projects and very strong 
international sales. The very good start to sales in the 
year unfortunately slowed in the second half and this, 
together with unbudgeted costs incurred in tendering  
for new business, affected profit.
Profitability was affected by the costs of integrating the 
two Peladon companies into the DRS Group structure. 
However, Peladon has performed well during the year with 
the development and release of a major new version of 
their DocXP product in the third quarter and the expansion 
of their sales and marketing team. This has lead to the 
signing of several large resellers in the US. Although 
Peladon incurred a trading loss for 2006 the benefits of 
investment resulted in a profit in the last two months of the 
year and there are high expectations for 2007 .
Turnover for the financial year 2006 was  16,690,000 
with pre-tax profits of  233,000 compared with 
 12,452,000 and  17 ,000 respectively for 2005.
The Company paid an interim dividend during the year 
of 0.25p. Although the level of costs in the year have 
resulted in lower than anticipated full year profit the 
outlook for 2007 is very promising. Therefore the Board 
is pleased to recommend a final dividend payment  
of 0.25p per share, giving a total dividend for the  
year of 0.5p per share (2005 total: nil).
e-Marker
 
We stated in 2005 that it had been a watershed year for  
e-Marker
 
 in moving from trials of the system to full scale 
implementation. This was indeed the case and in 2006 
there was a substantial increase in both the volume of 
answer scripts marked and the number of examination 
subjects that used e-Marker
 
. Our main partner for this 
work is England's largest examination awarding body 
AQA (Assessment and Qualifications Alliance). Their use  
of the system has grown each year. We were therefore very 
pleased to announce at the start of 2007 that we had signed 
an agreement with AQA to provide them with e-Marker
 
 
services through to the end of 2010. The contract has a 
potential value of  25 million over the next four years.
Elections
We have now been involved in election work for more 
than 15 years, having started in 1991 supplying scanning 
equipment to Norway. Major e-Counting projects have 
included the national election in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
and the Mayor and Greater London Authority elections 
in 2000 and 2004. This year we were delighted to 
report we had been awarded the contract to use our 
e-Counting systems to count the Scottish elections 
in 2007. These elections introduce STV (Single 
Transferable Vote) which, although it has well argued 
democratic benefits, is difficult and time consuming 
to count manually. The DRS e-Counting system offers 
significant advantages over manual counting in this type 
of complex election. We are also pleased to have won 
this contract in partnership with ERS (Electoral Reform 
Services). ERS are acknowledged to be a world leader 
in applying the many variations of STV. A large amount 
of work has taken place during 2006 in preparation for 
these elections. This has included the commissioning 
of a dedicated production unit in Milton Keynes to 
manufacture more than 300 of our PhotoScribe
 
 PS900 
scanners that will be used to count the votes.
Trials for introducing new technology in elections in 
England and Wales are currently controlled by the DCA 
(Department for Constitutional Affairs). To be involved in 
e-Marker
 
 processes 4 million AQA GCSE exam scripts
DRS e-Marker
 
 solutions 
were deployed across the 
country in processing 50% 
of this summer's AQA GCSE 
exam series. 
Involving just under 4 million scripts, DRS electronic marking technology was 
used by 6,400 examiners in their homes compared to 4,200 examiners last year 
using it to mark 2.5 million scripts.
A number of e-Marker
 
 modules were used throughout this summer's 
examination marking project to collect a total of 65 million marks from student 
answers. One of the main modules used by examiners in their homes was CMI+ 
(Computer Marking from Image Plus).   DRS Data & Research Services plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
It has been a contrasting year with healthy growth  
in turnover and the award of a number of major,  
but demanding new contracts  
future trials companies needed to tender to be included 
on the DCA's election framework. I am pleased to report 
that DRS was successful at being included on all levels 
of the framework and we will be eligible to offer both 
e-Counting and e-Voting for future trials.
International
It has been a very successful year for international sales 
with projects in a number of countries, some involving 
supply of our PS900 scanners. The highlight of the  
year was the supply of printed forms for the Nigerian 
Population Census which was funded by the European 
Union. However many other print and scanning contracts 
were received, particularly from Africa, making this a 
record export year. Sales of PhotoScribe
 
 scanners were 
higher than expected to countries in Africa and the Far 
East. Also, after a comprehensive customer evaluation  
of the PS900, we made our first sales of the product to 
North America for use in American elections.
Peladon
We acquired the Peladon Software Group at the 
beginning of the year and both the San Diego and the 
Andover based companies are showing great promise 
with both sales and product development of the DocXP 
range of software. The main sales and marketing thrust 
has been focused on the American financial markets and 
that has proved to be well founded. A number of value 
added resellers have been signed up and the launch of 
new products has been very successful. 
Staff
During the year there has been both a significant 
recruitment campaign and the introduction of a number 
of new staff structures and procedures. The increase in 
e-Marker
 
 activities and in election work has required us 
to create new permanent staff positions in several areas 
of the business. The large peaks of activity that both 
examination and election work generates has also meant 
we have needed to recruit many fixed term contract staff 
and temporary employees. 
To manage the complex project work in which DRS is 
increasingly involved we have placed greater emphasis 
on the formal disciplines associated with project 
management, quality assurance and business continuity. 
Programme management has been introduced to give 
added structure to our PRINCE2 project control and  
a separate quality assurance department has been 
created to reflect the nature of our business, which  
has to be 'right first time'. The critical nature of many  
of our projects requires us to be able to demonstrate  
to customers the development of robust business 
continuity plans and the effective use of risk registers  
in all levels of the Company.
Although there is much more work to be done in  
the above areas the progress we have made so far could 
not have been achieved without tremendous assistance 
and hard work from all staff members. I would like to 
thank the staff for their untiring contribution to a very 
challenging year. 
Summary
It has been a contrasting year with healthy growth  
in turnover and the award of a number of major but 
demanding new contracts. We have expanded  
our capabilities in order to fulfil these contracts and 
others like them in the future, but this investment has 
unavoidably depressed this year's profits. Some further 
investment will be needed to meet the expanding 
potential business we seek to win. However, as we go 
into this year's work a primary focus is being placed on 
tighter cost control in order to secure better margins 
from our major contracts. 
I am looking forward to an exciting year with major 
projects in elections, e-Marker
 
 and International. The 
new business of Peladon is now fully part of the DRS 
Group and set to meet our expectations and be part  
of overall growth in the business.
Malcolm Brighton
Chairman
12 March 2007
CMI+ was used to capture 51 million marks from 80 different exam papers for  
1.3 million candidates. This module enables an awarding body to analyse  
exam papers by the items and types of responses required of candidates. The 
responses are categorised according to whether they are able to be automatically 
marked by computer, generally marked by markers who have been trained on  
the mark scheme or require expert examiners to mark them. The functionality  
of each is suited to different examination types and has differing characteristics 
and complexities. 