 1 2
Introduction
Financial Year 2007 has proved to be 
another great year for Air Partner. Just 
12 months ago the Group announced 
profits before tax of  5m for the first 
time, with expectations to remain ahead 
of that landmark. Today, Air Partner is 
almost 50% ahead of last year.
For the second consecutive year the 
Group has traded ahead of both internal 
and external expectations. Sales, margin, 
gross profit and net profit improvements 
have been exceptionally strong, with 
trading sustained at unprecedented levels 
for each and every one of the 12 months, 
in near perfect trading conditions.
The main challenge this year has been 
to maintain our front line reputation 
for delivering successful flights , given 
an extreme workload one third higher 
than last year, and no quieter months  
to devote to supporting the new levels. 
Hence I am particularly pleased to 
report that the team has maintained and 
improved our operational reputation 
with regular clients, broadened our 
client base, and created new systems and 
structures to maintain these new levels.
In addition Air Partner has furthered its 
stated strategy to continue diversifying 
its revenues across the three geographic, 
client, and product axes - this being a 
hallmark of the Group in recent years.
Air Partner is a people business, and its 
strength stems from the team that chooses 
to work here. This year we have had over 
97% desired retention of the team, whilst 
attracting many new key post holders and 
fee earners in the process. Today, the 
team size is now almost 250 employees.
1  Our London Gatwick trading floor
Our team of aviation professionals  
has earned an enviable reputation  
for masterminding some of the most  
complex civil aviation operations flown
today. New missions are frequently 
launched at a moment's notice, flying
passengers and freight, any where,  
any time, on any type of aircraft. 
2  Our strength stems from our people 
Their experience, their advice, the value 
they add. They work tirelessly behind the 
scenes, checking and double-checking 
all angles and aspects of each and every 
flight. They are highly trained and driven  
by an enthusiasm to deliver the 100th flight 
of the day as if it were the first.
Chief Executive's 
review
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2007
12 | 13
  These record results demonstrate 
the Group's ability to provide 
outstanding service and client 
satisfaction over the long term.  
I am delighted to be announcing 
the group's 13th consecutive  
year of a 10% increase in the  
core dividend and our fifth 
special dividend in 12 years. 
 David Savile, Chief Executive Adding value is at the  
heart of everything we do.
Quality management; quality 
earnings; quality dividends.
Quality:
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2007
14 | 15 1
2
3
The total PJ sector rewards have been 
high, with record levels of flights, record 
positive client feedback, referrals, and 
new client acquisitions. In just four years 
we have tripled the PJ sector earnings. 
Looking forward there is much headroom 
for growth both in absolute and market 
share terms.
The integration of Gold Air proved to 
be more challenging than expected. 
Gold Air historically made its profits in 
the summer, and lost money in certain 
winter months. We acquired it in October 
(as it entered its weak season) and after 
reviewing the business, the decision was 
taken to restructure earlier than planned, 
re-brand it to incorporate the Air Partner 
name and strengthen the key team 
members. This led to one one-off costs 
of  275,000 in the process. The outcome 
of the restructuring has been pleasing 
and six months of winter losses were 
more than offset in the last four months 
to establish a small operating profit by 
the year-end
3
, whilst writing off all the 
one-off costs into this year. Moreover, 
the business is now placed on a stronger 
footing, better geared towards optimised 
utilisation of its assets than before. 
Given the progress in the first six 
months, in May we were able to 
announce planned investment of  5m 
to develop our base at London's Biggin 
Hill airport into a high security private 
jet enclave. The plan includes the 
construction of a new hangar complex 
alongside the Group's existing facility 
and increasing its area from 25,000 to 
150,000 sq ft. This endorses the Board's 
view that Biggin is the ideal airport for 
Air Partner's longer term strategies 
and its clients' requirements. Located 
just 14 miles from the City, it is the least 
constrained of all London airports, with 
significant available runway capacity, and 
offers owners, users, and the Group the 
most flexible access to the South East's 
crowded skies, together with the least 
constraints on future growth.
There is much debate whether today's 
unprecedented private jet demand, 
driven by the ever-deteriorating 
scheduled air experience, oppressive 
and intrusive airport security, and 
rising personal wealth is a transient 
phenomenon awaiting the next cycle,  
or whether there has been a sea-change 
in users' attitude and today's demand is 
to become the norm. Anecdotal evidence 
from both the users and the industry itself 
supports the latter view, and the Group's 
focus remains on sustained growth. 
However Air Partner is prepared for 
either eventuality and is confident that  
it can perform well in either scenario.
Commercial Jets
The performance of the Commercial Jets 
team has been no less impressive and no 
less easy. CJ is the largest Group division 
and currently accounts for 63% of total 
sales. This year CJ sales were up 26% to 
 117.5m and operating profit was up 
41% to  3.72m; average margin was up 
175 base points. 
Similarly rebranded and with a tighter 
management structure in the form of  
a CJ Board, the focus has also been to  
grow the structural integrity of the 
business as much as the financial results. 
Notably we have found that average 
client spend is significantly increased, 
with the top 100 client spend  up 24%, 
and we are uncovering and winning 
more medium term contracts than in  
the past. This provides for better visibility 
of earnings, but in supporting this 
increased activity, it stretched the team 
and restricted our ability to grow the  
total number of active clients as we would 
have liked; new recruitment is already 
having a positive impact. 
Today's broking businesses need to offer 
real added value on every contract and 
this is where the Air Partner team excels 
through its sheer volume of experience. 
Not only does Air Partner provide the 
best in-house logistics service, but the 
Group's growing reputation is starting 
to score more consistently against 
perceived look-alikes. Increasingly, 
Government and established corporates 
know that Air Partner provides a quality 
result on every one of its contracts, 
irrespective of the vagaries of today's 
airline and airport services.
3
With Gold Air adopting the AP financial year dates,  
we are reporting after 10 months of ownership.
Chief Executive's 
review continued
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2007
16 | 17
During the year the Group restructured 
and now operates and reports as two core 
divisions: Air Partner Private Jets (PJ ), 
and Air Partner Commercial Jets (CJ ) 
collectively accounting for 93% of the 
Group's activity.
Private Jets
The PJ division accounts for 30% 
of Group sales and comprises two 
sub divisions. The larger part is the 
traditional air charter business, selling 
private jet usage and JetCards. This 
business is based in our head office 
in Gatwick, but operates throughout 
the global network, generating the 
bulk of the Group's PJ revenues. The 
second part is the PJ operating company 
(formerly Gold Air, and now Air Partner 
Private Jets), managing one of the 
largest fleets of Learjets in Europe from 
London (Biggin Hill), and offering 
charter, jet management, jet sales, and 
jet maintenance. Total sales for the PJ 
division grew 62% to  55.3m, of which 
31% came from organic growth, and 
31% from the acquisition. Operating 
profit rose 73% to  2.78m, as Air Partner 
benefited from the halo effect of being 
broker and end-supplier. 
A key theme of the year has been an 
improvement of the balance of demand, 
such that it is more evenly spread across 
every month of the year. This stems from 
the successful growth of the Group's 
jet-for-leisure business which services 
high net worth (HNW) clients, who 
traditionally travel at times when  
existing corporate flying is reduced.  
With business emanating from 
corporate, government and private 
sectors we have achieved a more even 
flow of business as a result. Pleasingly, 
demand is not only more balanced, 
but it is currently at record levels. Our 
focus now switches to sustainability of 
this even and strong demand across the 
traditionally quieter winter months.
As part of the Board's continued focus 
on adding structure to support growth 
of the business, a review of recruitment, 
training, career development and 
management structure was undertaken 
earlier in the year. The key aim of the 
review was to develop the very best private 
jet team at all levels, from new hires and 
senior traders, to operations teams and 
management. It is pleasing to report that 
much has been achieved on these fronts, 
and the Group now has a PJ Board fully 
responsible for the operational control  
of all PJ products and services.
The Group has benefited greatly from 
the acquisition of Gold Air last October, 
and its conversion into Air Partner 
Private Jets as an operating company. 
With seven private jets under the Air 
Partner brand, and under our direct 
control
2
, the market now identifies Air 
Partner as an end-supplier of private 
aviation services, as much as the market-
leading broker. This significant change 
in perception has strengthened the 
brand immensely and has been a key 
factor in the performance in the year 
under review. Moreover, this broadening 
of the Group's focus will play a core  
part in the Group's future growth. 
JetCard sales have similarly grown, 
providing many new clients, better 
forward visibility of earnings, and the 
ability for us to sell different PJ products 
to clients, as their changing use and  
need dictates.
1  A night at the opera
In a fast life, time is the ultimate luxury. 
Private aviation gives people control over 
what's important to them - time with 
family and friends, time to work and play. 
2  Pets can come too
Air Partner Private Jets is a DEFRA 
approved operator, able to fly owners 
with their pets directly to Biggin Hill for 
clearance through the Pet Travel Scheme.
3  JetCard
The JetCard provides the freedom  
and flexibility of private jet travel with  
the certainty of fixed pricing and 
guaranteed availability.
2
The jets themselves are in private ownership,  
and are not owned by the Group. Solid blue chip revenues  
from corporate, government  
and private HNW sectors.
 
Diversified earnings streams across 
Europe, North America, Middle 
East and the rest of the world.
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2007
18 | 19
Diversity: