 2
Chairman's Statement
The year was characterised by volatility in the Saffil  
business and margin improvement in the Thermal 
Technologies division, with the streamlining of some of 
its under-performing businesses. It was also a year of 
change, with the restructured and strengthened Board 
of the Group welcoming Patrick Lammers as the new 
Chief Executive Officer from 1 December 2007, and with 
the formulation and adoption of a strategy following 
a strategic review under his leadership. This will take 
advantage of the opportunities that exist within the Group 
to enhance shareholder value. 
The new strategy adopted by the Board will have a far-
reaching effect on the direction of our activities both 
in the short and long-term as the Group focuses on its 
core competencies and implements a clear strategy 
for growth. To implement this strategy, Patrick is both 
It is pleasing to report that in the 
year ended 3 March 2008, Group 
revenue increased to  63.9 million 
(2007:  60.6 million) and underlying 
profit before tax increased to  
 6.5 million (2007:  6.4 million), 
despite weakening in demand in the 
second half, as had been foreseen at 
the half-year. Exceptional charges of 
 20.4 million were incurred during 
the year, predominately relating to 
the closure of Carolite  activities 
with a current year positive cash 
impact of  0.8 million, resulting in  
a loss before tax of  3.5 million  
(2007:  4. million profit). Net debt 
at the end of the period stood at 
 32.7 million (2007:  32.9 million).
restructuring the Management Team and introducing 
new members, enabling it to introduce the changes, 
which the Board is convinced will deliver consistent 
growth in shareholder value. Changes are already being 
implemented to focus on margin and profit growth across 
the Group, which will stabilise the current operating 
businesses in the immediate term and position them for 
growth. It is an exciting and challenging time for us all as 
the Group enters this key period of change.
The 54% increase in sales of Performance Materials 
in the first half-year of 2008 compared with the same 
period in 2007, was very encouraging, especially as 
improved efficiency and production capacity in Saffil  
and Ecoflex  was sufficient to meet the increasing sales 
demand.  However, sales were affected in the second half 
due to the loss of part of a platform and the economic 
downturn in the USA, reducing vehicle production. As a 
result of these issues, annual sales for the Performance 
Materials division for the year as a whole were 18% higher 
than the previous year. Reduced demand is continuing 
and it is anticipated that Ecoflex  sales will be affected in 
 The new strategy adopted 
by the Board will have a 
far-reaching effect on the 
direction of our activities 
as the Group focuses on 
its core competencies 
and implements a clear 
strategy for growth.  3
Christopher Honeyborne
Chairman
the current financial year. To partly offset this decrease, 
Saffil  sales have increased. New Ecoflex  products have 
been positively received by our major customers, who are 
negotiating to use Ecoflex  products on new platforms in 
2010 and beyond. 
Changes in the Thermal Technologies division, 
including some planned plant closures and a focus on 
products generating higher margins, have improved the 
Division's overall performance. In addition, focus on the 
development of certain enhanced products has produced 
some very encouraging results. Some long-standing 
products have been discontinued due to increased price 
competition from the Far East. However, margin increases 
in areas which at first sight seem mature and unprofitable 
can be achieved, and downsizing the manufacture 
of some products and optimising the efficiency of 
operations has resulted in a higher overall margin of 
12.9% (2007: 10.3%). 
During the second half of the year, a comprehensive 
review of the economic and technical viability of the 
Carolite  hard disk drive project was undertaken by the 
Group with assistance from outside experts. This was 
both as part of the Group-wide strategic review and 
because the quickly changing IT environment, in which 
improvements in product performance are expected on a 
continuous basis, coupled with pressure to reduce costs, 
were a cause for concern. This review has demonstrated 
that the increased stringency of technical requirements 
relating to the hard disk drive in recent years and the 
progress of new technologies, make it very difficult 
to envisage Carolite  as a substrate for a long-term, 
profitable product. The Board has, therefore, taken the 
decision to cease further development of, and investment 
in the Carolite  hard disk substrate and to close down 
all activities relating to it. This results in a  15.2 million 
exceptional write-off. 4
Board Changes
Patrick Lammers took up his role as Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 December 2007, succeeding Mike O'Brien 
who retired at the last Annual General Meeting of the 
Company on 21 September 2007. 
Patrick spent 14 years at the Shell Group (Shell ) in a 
range of senior engineering and commercial management 
roles ranging from regional to global coverage. His last 
role was as Managing Director of Dureal, a subsidiary 
of Univar NV, a chemicals supplier which was active 
in technologies relevant to the tightening automotive 
emissions requirements in Europe and the USA.
Following revitalisation of the Dytech business, sales of its 
catalyst support and filtration media products are showing 
sound progress. The three-year supply agreements that 
were signed earlier are contributing to profits and we 
anticipate that new products will be launched in the 
coming year to grow this part of the Business further.
We have recently undertaken a comprehensive revaluation 
of the Group's extensive property portfolio, which has 
resulted in an upwards revision of  24 million. There is 
now  30 million of property value on the balance sheet, 
of which  13.7 million relates to property surplus to 
operating requirements, which generated only  
 0.1 million income. A strategic review of the property 
portfolio by a leading firm of consultants is currently 
underway with a view to unlocking the potential value  
of the portfolio in due course.
Dyson Group prides itself on the high degree of attention 
it focuses on matters pertaining to the environment and 
the safety of its employees (SHE = Safety, Health and 
Environment). The arrival of Patrick Lammers has seen a 
significantly sharpened focus on SHE matters. In addition 
to taking the lead as Group SHE Champion and promoting 
SHE at Board level, a steering group has been established, 
charged with introducing and implementing revised best 
practice guidance to be the common SHE standard across 
the Group. Additional SHE competent resources have 
been engaged. In addition, an extended range of key 
performance indicators have been introduced which will 
be reported against next year.
Current Year Dividend
The Board is recommending for shareholders' approval an 
unchanged final dividend of 3.25 pence, bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 4.30 pence (2007: 4.30 pence).
On 31 March 2008, after eight years as Finance Director, 
Nick Parker left the Group. On behalf of the Group, 
I would like to thank Nick for his contribution to the 
Company.
On 1 October 2007 it was announced that Chris Kinsella 
had joined the Board as a non-executive director. 
Chris then held an executive role at TI, the engineering 
company, firstly as Divisional Finance Director of the 
Automotive businesses at TI plc and latterly, following 
its demerger in 2001, as Chief Financial Officer and main 
board director of TI Automotive, a role which Chris held 
until December 2007. Following the resignation of Nick 
Parker, Chris was invited by the Board to become Finance 
Director of the Group and, as was announced on 14 May 
2008, Chris will assume this full-time executive role from 
1 September 2008.
 The Group enters the new financial year with a 
strengthened management team which is focused on 
delivering further operational improvements whilst 
implementing its new strategy.  5
On 23 June 2008 it was announced that Honor Chapman 
CBE was joining the Board as a non-executive director 
with immediate effect. Her many appointments have 
included Partner and International Director of Jones Lang 
Wootton/LaSalle (1979-2003), non-executive director of 
Legal and General Group plc (1993-2001), Crown Estate 
Commissioner (1997-2004) and Vice Chairman and then 
Chairman of the London Development Agency (2000-
2004). Honor was made a Commander of the British 
Empire in 2007 for her services to the Property Industry. 
In addition to her extensive corporate knowledge and 
experience, Honor will bring expertise, diversity and 
value to the Board in relation to the Group's substantial 
property portfolio.
 
Outlook
The Group enters the new financial year with a 
strengthened management team which is focused on 
delivering further operational improvements whilst 
implementing its new strategy.
The Board has fully endorsed the conclusions of the 
strategic review and as the new strategy is implemented, 
increased concentration on the business elements will 
give rise to the desired growth and increased margins. 
A class-of-market approach will allow our sales teams 
to focus upon specific markets and to sell a range of 
products into each. The creation of a Technology Centre 
will better utilise our formidable Group technological 
capabilities in order to fully support new product 
developments and provide an improved service to our 
customers. Furthermore, focus on Group Operations will 
enable the dissemination of best practices across the 
Group, will increase the efficiency of all our plants and 
will remove complexity from the Group's infrastructure.
From this strengthened base, I am confident that the 
Group is well positioned to deliver increased shareholder 
value and long-term growth.
Christopher Honeyborne 
Chairman 
26 June 2008