 - 2 - 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
Given the global economic background, and in particular the fall in demand experienced in the markets 
which we serve, it is not surprising to report the negative impact on Group results in the 18 month period 
to 30
th
 September 2009.  Despite a background of declining economic conditions the performance in the 
first six months was satisfactory but the dramatic drop in demand for our products from the automotive 
sector caused the Group to be loss making during the remainder of the period.  In response the Group 
adopted rigorous cost saving measures and has initiated a major operational restructuring programme to 
focus the Group on its core business of Saffil, to support the Builders Centre and the Tin Oxide Electrode 
and Zirconia Nozzle businesses based in West Hunwick and to take advantage of the potential offered by 
the valuable sites owned by the Company.  These measures combined with recovery in market conditions 
seen towards the end of 2009 and continuing into this year should return the Group to profitability. 
Financial Highlights 
The progressive and accelerating decline in market conditions during the period led to a fall in Group 
revenue to  73.9 million. On an annualised basis this is equivalent to  49.3 million which compares with 
the  63.9 million achieved in 2008, a fall of 23%.  Underlying loss before tax was  5.6 million (2008:  6.5 
million profit) resulting in a loss before tax of  24.2 million (2008:  13.5 million loss). Exceptional charges 
of  18.5 million were incurred during the year largely due to impairments of goodwill, fixed assets, 
development costs and the reduction in valuation of investment properties, in addition to further 
rationalisations and headcount reductions. The pension deficit increased by  20.3 million to  29.0 million 
and the property portfolio reduced in value by  10.8 million. Net debt at the end of the period had risen to 
 42.2 million (2008:  32.7 million). 
 
Financial Restructuring  
Following a significant decline in the trading performance of the Group as a result of the downturn in the 
economic environment and the markets in which the Group operates, the Company has been in extensive 
discussions since early 2009 with its lending banks (Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Svenska Handlesbanken 
AB (publ)), and has considered a range of options to restructure its capital structure and reduce net 
borrowings. The Company, assisted by its advisers, KBC Peel Hunt, Deloitte and DLA Piper, has agreed 
terms, in principle, with the Banks which would reduce their existing borrowings to  35 million in return for 
shares in the Company and fixed and floating charge security from the Group and provide new secured 
debt facilities of  3m. The terms also include a transfer of the Dyson Group Pension Fund (DGPF ) 
liabilities, through a regulated apportionment agreement process, to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF ), 
and the Group is in the process of submitting a clearance application to the Pensions Regulator. In order 
to implement the proposed restructuring, it has been necessary to delist the Company. The delisting 
became effective from 27 April 2010. Following the delisting circular issued to shareholders on 31 March 
2010, in due course, the Company expects to send out a further circular to shareholders, setting out in 
detail the agreed terms for the restructuring, as a pre-requisite to an extraordinary general meeting of 
shareholders to be convened to consider and vote on the restructuring proposals. 
Material Uncertainty 
As set out in Note 1 to the accounts, the Directors believe there to be a material uncertainty surrounding 
the completion of a financial restructuring of the Group and therefore the availability of ongoing funding 
from the Group's Lenders, to which the Directors have had regard in adopting the going concern basis. 
However, on the basis of discussions and correspondence to date between the company and the banks,  - 3 - 
the PPF, the trustees and the pension schemes and shareholders and the various parties' respective 
advisors, the directors are confident that the above matters are likely to be concluded favourably.   
Performance Materials 
The sudden and dramatic reduction in automotive customer call-off for Saffil  fibre and Ecoflex  
products in the second six months of the reporting period led to prolonged factory shut-downs.  
Controllable costs were reduced significantly during the period and further productivity improvements 
achieved.  These measures combined with anticipated recovery in sales levels give reasons for optimism 
on future performance. 
The reduction in activity in the glass and steel markets supplied by the Tin Oxide and Zirconia Nozzle 
businesses respectively resulted in significantly reduced levels of sales in these businesses in the final six 
months of the period after record sales in the first 12 months of the period.  Both these businesses are 
very well placed to take advantage of the market recovery being seen towards the end of the 2009 
calendar year. 
Thermal Technologies 
During the period, further rationalisation, downsizing and cost reduction has been implemented. Adverse 
economic conditions have given rise to a 16.6% reduction in sales revenue against the previous year. 
The operational restructuring carried out post period end has resulted in a number of these businesses 
being sold or closed. 
Property and Pensions 
Having undertaken a comprehensive review and revaluation of the Group's property at the period end, 
the portfolio has been revised to a value of  18.0 million. The Board will continue to pursue opportunities 
to dispose of surplus property as and when market conditions improve. 
Similarly, the market conditions have contributed to an increase of  20.4 million in the pension deficit 
which, at the year end, stood at  29.0 million on an IAS19 basis.  As part of the financial restructuring 
discussed earlier, the Dyson Pension Fund (which had an IAS 19 deficit of  24.1m at 30 September 
2009) will be transferred into the Pension Protection Fund.   
Current Year Dividend 
The Board has focused on cash containment measures and is therefore not proposing a dividend for the 
year.  
Board Changes 
Honor Chapman who had been a Director of the Company since 2008 died on 22nd August 2009. Her 
wise counsel, particularly in respect of property matters, but also more generally from her wide business 
experience, has been sadly missed. 
Other changes in the composition of the Board during the period and subsequently, have to a 
considerable extent, reflected the changing circumstances of the company and the specialist expertise 
required. Ed Watkinson was a member of the Board from May to August 2009. Julian Cooper, an ICAEW 
qualified Chartered Accountant and former partner of Arthur Andersen, was appointed to advise the 
Board as a consultant in July 2009. As an experienced interim manager and management consultant,  - 4 - 
Julian's experience of turnaround situations and restructuring has been ideally suited to Dyson's needs.  
In August 2009 Mr Cooper assumed responsibility for the finance function following the resignation of 
Chris Kinsella who had been Finance Director since September 2008.  
Since the end of the reporting period Mr Cooper went on in October to become Interim Chief Executive 
replacing Patrick Lammers who had been Chief Executive since December 2007. Julian Cooper was 
appointed to the Board in January 2010. 
Also since the period end Dr Krishnamurthy (Raj) Rajagopal who had been a Non Executive Director 
since February 2007 resigned in January 2010.  
There are at present three members of the Board, Julian Cooper, John Lomas and myself and we would 
like to thank all those, who have been Directors during the past three years and who have resigned 
during the reporting period or subsequently, for the contributions they have made to the Company during 
a very challenging time. 
Outlook 
The Group operational restructuring plan has progressed well following the period end and the group is 
primarily focused on Saffil, a number of other smaller, but profitable businesses and its property assets 
along with considerably reduced central costs.  
The Saffil business has benefited from the recovery in global automotive markets in recent months and 
has been awarded new Ecoflex business which is expected to lead to further growth during 2010 and 
2011.  The cost base of this business has been reduced considerably over the period in which the market 
was depressed and a good portion of these savings are expected to continue despite increases in sales.  
Notwithstanding continued margin pressure within the industry, the above factors have led to significant 
improvements in profitability and cash generation in the Saffil business since the period end.  This 
combined with similar improvements in the other retained businesses gives cause for optimism on the 
future trading prospects for the Group as a whole.  
 
Christopher Honeyborne    
Chairman   
18 May 2010 