 ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
1 
 
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 
 
 
I am pleased to report that ECO Animal Health Group has delivered another 
sound set of results for the year ended 31 March 2012. In the Interim Report 
issued in December 2011, I advised that the second half had started well with a 
significant increase in sales; I am pleased to report that this performance was 
maintained for the balance of the year. The results for the year have been 
achieved in a marketplace under considerable pressure from the ongoing global 
economic difficulties and it is particularly encouraging that the overall 
consumption of meat protein continues to grow and the animal health industry 
along with it. 
The most important event affecting the future performance of the Group occurred after the year end when, 
in July 2012, the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
granted ECO a marketing authorisation in the United States for Aivlosin
 
 625 mg/g water soluble granules 
for swine. This long awaited decision follows an enormous amount of product development and regulatory 
work by our staff for the US authorities and represents the culmination of a huge investment by the Group 
over the past decade. The significance of this initial approval cannot be over stated as it allows ECO to 
enter a market that is one third of the global market for its products, which until now was closed to the 
Group. 
FINANCIAL 
Group turnover increased by close to 5 per cent to  28.3 million (2011:  27.1 million) while in US dollar 
terms the increase was 7 per cent. The US dollar exchange rate against other major currencies has a 
significant influence on ECO's performance as a large portion of the Group's sales and purchases are in 
US dollars and the value of that currency influences the translation of our results into sterling. As a global 
business, it is inevitable that we are impacted by currency movements and we take steps, where 
appropriate, to hedge that risk. In the year under review, the US dollar weakened against sterling and the 
Group hedged its exposure about half way through the period, albeit at some initial expense, but this has 
subsequently proved to have been the correct course of action. 
Profit after tax for the year increased by 31.8 per cent to over  2.6 million (2011:  2.0 million) and   profit 
before interest and non cash charges of tax, depreciation and amortisation, share based payments, 
impairment, foreign exchange and minorities rose to  6.5 million (2011:  6.4 million). I believe that this 
measure is a truer reflection of the state of the business than profit before tax, because we are required to 
amortise or depreciate drug registration costs, rather than to assess them by the increase in their fair value. 
The depreciation figure alone in our financial statements leads to an understatement of the actual value of 
our marketing authorisations worldwide and therefore of the total return to shareholders. Further, the figure 
for share based payments (which we are required to recognise in the income statement as a measure of 
the non cash remuneration received by our employees in return for their efforts during the year) has a 
significant impact on our reported profit.  The method of calculating the amount charged to the income 
statement is an inexact science and will vary from award to award, as market conditions change. This is 
because the value of any award can be based on a variety of complex assumptions, variables and models, 
which inevitably, are subject to review and will change as further data becomes available over time.   
Diluted earnings per share advanced 41.6 per cent reaching 4.19 pence (2011: 2.96 pence) The Group 
continues to benefit from enhanced tax allowances associated with the costs of developing its drugs. As a 
result of this and the favourable resolution of tax enquiries relating to previous years, the Group continues 
to accumulate tax losses, which have served to reduce the necessary level of deferred tax provision when 
compared to prior years. As a result, the Group does not expect to have a liability in respect of UK 
Corporation Tax for some years. Cash generated from operations during the year exceeded  6 million and 
the Group was able to deliver net cash balance at the year end of  9.5 million, a slight increase on the 
previous year.   ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
2 
 
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 
 
The Board is pleased to declare a dividend of 3.75 pence per share (2011: 3.00 pence) which is an 
increase of 25 per cent and reflects our continued confidence in the business and the anticipated further 
profit contribution from its product portfolio.  This will be paid on 5 October 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 31 August 2012. Once again, we are offering shareholders a scrip alternative to the cash 
dividend and remain grateful to the many shareholders who support us in this way and help to conserve 
cash within the Company. 
OPERATIONS 
Overall ECO sales were ahead by nearly 5 per cent in the year to 31 March 2012 and the increase in the 
second half of the year, over the equivalent period in 2011, was in excess of 11 per cent. This accelerating 
trend is encouraging and was achieved in tough global markets, where pricing pressures intensified during 
the year, reflecting the generally difficult environment. ECO responded rapidly to the changing market 
dynamics by introducing pricing strategies to retain and, where possible grow, market shares. 
We were particularly pleased to see a rise of 23 per cent in our turnover in Latin America, which delivered 
an increase in earnings of over 40 per cent from this important and fast growing region.  The growth was 
driven principally by advances in Aivlosin
 
 sales to Argentina and Venezuela, underpinned by continuing 
substantial sales in Brazil.  ECO set up a new subsidiary in Mexico which should generate increased sales 
of Aivlosin
 
 and other ECO products to the large and growing Mexican and Central American markets.  
Further growth was driven by strong sales of Aivlosin
 
 in China, India and Malaysia. Sales from our 
Chinese subsidiary, Zhejiang ECO Biok Animal 
Health Products Limited, also continued to 
grow, rising a further 7 per cent during the year. 
As this important business is currently focused 
on pigs, the  next significant strategic step is to 
broaden its product offering by entering the 
poultry sector in China for which the company  
already holds a number of marketing 
authorisations.. Aivlosin 's excellent product 
performance in India, Malaysia and Turkey and 
its growing reputation, is leading to increased 
penetration in these rapidly developing markets 
for poultry. 
 
                                Pheasant chicks 
The difficulties within the Eurozone, coupled with the decline in the value of the Euro against sterling and 
the US dollar, meant that the sterling value of turnover and earnings arising from within that area dropped 
back slightly.  Substantial  investment and progress has since been made that will support future Aivlosin  
growth, including an adjustment in strategy with increased focus on key markets, employment of additional 
sales support staff, the appointment of a new distributor in France and obtaining an important new approval 
for Aivlosin
 
 Water Soluble Granules for use in poultry in Turkey. The European markets remain important 
to ECO, although their potential is not as significant as those territories with faster growing animal 
production where in general our presence is strong. 
We were also particularly encouraged by the growth in UK sales of over 30 per cent, reflecting the 
continued success of our direct- to- market strategy with Aivlosin
 
.    
 
 
 
  ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
3 
 
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 
 
Although the initial signs of recovery in Japan were promising, following the natural disasters of March 
2011, it is now apparent that the full impact of these cataclysmic events is taking longer to overcome than 
previously thought. Many farmers were put out of business either through flooding, nuclear contamination 
or logistical problems and the cumulative effect has caused our business there to suffer for much of the 
year. Confidence in the economy and particularly in local agriculture was badly damaged, but following a 
series of initiatives undertaken by our Ecopharma subsidiary, its sales have been showing signs of a firm 
recovery since the year end.  
Aivlosin
 
- North America 
The last few months have been transformational in ECO's development of Aivlosin
 
. North America is an 
extremely important market for this product and access is dependent on obtaining the necessary regulatory 
approvals, which is a very lengthy, costly and exacting process. In November 2011 the Veterinary Drugs 
Directorate (VDD) of Health Canada granted a marketing authorisation for Aivlosin
 
 625 mg/g water soluble 
granules for pigs for the treatment of ileitis, an enteric (gut) disease in  pigs. The Health Canada approval 
was the first in North America for Aivlosin
 
. Initial sales in Canada, which started in March 2012, have been 
very encouraging and the  feedback  from veterinarians is positive.  
 
In July 2012, after years of trials and preparatory work by ECO's product development and regulatory 
specialists in the UK and North America, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also granted ECO a 
marketing authorisation in the United States for Aivlosin
 
 625 mg/g water soluble granules for pigs for the 
treatment of ileitis. The FDA's approval is ECO's first in the United States and marks a very important step 
in the Group's continuing development of Aivlosin
  
as a global veterinary product. ECO established a joint 
venture sales and marketing company, Pharmgate Animal Health LLC, in the US in 2010 to prepare for the 
launch of Aivlosin
 
. 
These approvals will, in due course, be followed by further authorisations for other formulations and 
indications. 
 
PEOPLE 
We now employ over 150 
people in our 14 offices 
around the world and we 
are, as always, grateful to 
our dedicated, hard 
working team of highly 
qualified specialists who 
are making our Group a 
leading force in the global 
animal health markets. 
OUTLOOK 
We are confident that the long awaited marketing authorisations in the US and Canada will have a major 
positive effect on the development of ECO, although it will be some months before the product launches 
gain momentum. We do not expect a noticeable impact on our financial performance until next year. ECO 
is very well placed to further broaden its product ranges and its global spread will ensure that it capitalises 
on opportunities as they arise in all the Group's major markets. The Group is set for an exciting future and 
looks forward to maximising value for shareholders. 
Peter Lawrence 
Executive Chairman 
19 July 2012 