 ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
FINANCIAL 
I am pleased to report that ECO Animal Heallh Group has delivered another strong 
set of results lor the year ended 31 March 2013. ECO has made good progress in 
many of its markets and this has been achieved against a background or a generally 
lacklustre global economy. II is particulally encouraging to repc>rt that following tho 
receipt of initial marketing authorisations and the launch of AMosln  in Nortll 
America last year, sales In !hat torrilory ran ahead of our expectations and tho 
product is rapidly gaining acceptance, having received a number of excellent reviews 
and testimonials from Independent veterinarians. t.atln America, which Is traditionally 
one of our strongest markets, was adversely affected by the political ~ituation in 
Argentina and Venezuela. Shareholders are encouraged to visit the ECO websites, 
Which give up to dale information abOut the company and its subsidiaries, p.-oducts 
and testimonials, II$ well as finks to investment research. 
As Aivlosln  revenues continue to build, the Group's ongoing policy is to focus on higher margin products and 
move away from sales of tower margin, undifferentiated ge.netic dn gs. Lower margin products were Important to 
ECO in eartier years as they were supplied to cusiOIOOlS as part ol a portfolio offer. This move g,vay from tow 
margin, high sales volume medications is reftoctod in the year to 31 March 201 31n lhe continuing improvement in 
gross margin, Wilich has now reached 45.2% (2012: 38.2%). Pre-tax profit on continuing activities Increased by 
almost 43% to  3.3m (201 2: (2.3m). Earnings per share on the same basis improved by over 20% to 5.1 pence 
(201 2: 4.2 pence). Grolrp turnover increased only slightly to  .29.0m (2012:  28.3m). Earnings on continuing 
activities before interes.t, tax, depreciation, amortisation, share based payments, foreign exchange movements 
and minorities rose again reaching  6.7m (2012:  6.5m). Net cash at the elld of the year was  7.6m (2012: 
 9.5m) after generating more than  4.3m from operations. 
As our business expands and penetrates its major markets witll particular emphasis on the opportunities in North 
Arneriee and China, there ha .s been a predictable increase In the cash resources required to Onance the 
expansion In working capital resulting from additional stock and debtors. The aclive pharmaceutical Ingredient in 
Aivlosin  is manufactured in a state of the art US Food and Dwg Administration approved facility In China, 
which is well located for the local markeL btrt 
geographically distant from a number of ECO's koy global 
operations. The resulting long lead times for product 
delive.y to these markets tlas an inevitable Impact on cash 
now. This cash effect was exacerbated in the year under 
review by the politic.'ll situation in Venezuela, where we 
expe~ienc;cd many months of delay in payments as banks 
froze US dollar payments and transfers during the 
Presidential election. This was enormously frustrating as 
we were holding very large and important orders lor that 
count.y, which we could not fulfil until pnyments were 
received towards the end or the year. Argentina was also 
dilficun as local banks held up payments to the UK. 
possibly for political reasons. 
E CO trades in international markets and over 31 per cent of sates were in US dollars and nearly 18 per cent in 
Euros. Currency fluctuations arc a normal pan of our business. We hedge our Clrrrency risk as effectively as we 
can without laking speculative positions so our exposure is strletty limited to the extent of forecast cash R ows and 
ptotection of local assets. As a UK based company, our main administrative costs are in sterling, although an 
increasing presence in the key markets of China and the US does give us the oppertunay to meet administration 
costs In local curre. ncies, tllOreby reducing exchange risk. 
1  ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
The Board is pleased to dectaro an Increased dividend lor the year or 4.0 pence per share, somo 7% above the 
level of last year (201 2: 3.75 pence). payable on 25 O<:tober 201J to shareholders on the register on 13 
September 2013. As in previous years, lite scrip dividend allemotlve will be offorcd In place of the cash dividend. 
In lho current year wo anUcipale further demands on our workittg capital to sustain tho growth of the bvsiness. 
Shareholders lhat elect lor the scrip dividend wiU assist our cash flow considf!rebly and this \ All be greaUy 
appreciated by the Company. Since the i llroduction of the scrip dividend allemative in 2008, somo  3.8m of 
cash dividends have been reinvested in ovr business. 
OPERATIONS 
North American revenue has continued to b~ld impressively and exceeded our expectations in tho year under 
review. This strong perfonmance lolows tho success!~ lat nch of Aivlosil  Water Soluble for s  Ane In September 
2012 and the build up ol sales in Canada. Income from these territories is generated by our sates and technical 
t~ams at Pharmgate Animal Health, our North American joint venture with Phnrrngate LLC, a subsidiary of Jinhe 
Biotechnology of China. Tile technical advantages of Alvlosln  over oUter antibiotics have ensured that its 
usage h~s beer1 supported by many promlnonl veterinarians and swine producers. Aivlosin  has been approved 
as a treahnent of sh01l duration against specific disease outbreaks. It fulfills all the requirements set by the 
regulalory authorities lor the jud'rious use of antinicfobials in the control of disease in farm animals. ECO has 
continued to invest heavily in the Aivlosln  product development and registration programme as wolf ilS in lhe 
costs of launching the product wilh Pharmgate Animal Health. This investment is In anticipation of the receipt or 
marketing authorisations lor additional indications and presentations in North America which should signlficanlly 
increase the revenue generating potential of the range. 
An ECO subsidiaty was esta. blished in Mexico atlhe end of the f)fevious f10ancial year following 01' decision to 
terminate a long standing local distribution agreement with a third party whose performance had deteriorated . 
The new company is now fully operational and will contribute a full yeafs sales in the current year. A feature of 
this new operation is that It will bring ECO much closer to the very Important Mexican market and will in future 
allow ECO to capitalise on existing beneficial NAFT A (Nor1h American Free Trado Agreement) opportunllies. 
particutMy 
Sales in Europe, including the UK, grew in the year by over 
11%, a good re<>ult given tho economic conditions coul}led 
with lhe consielerable pressure that European meat producers 
continue to taco owing to the combination of near record high 
feed costs and the woak financial circumstances of many 
consumers. Aivlosln  achlevod parlicula~y good volume 
gains in Russia, Spain and the UK. The Ecomeclln  range or 
differentiated generic ivermeclin based products showed 
renewod growth, will\ sales ahead by nearly 13% compared 
with the previous year. This improvement followed our 
increased focus on this range and the introduction of new 
brands and Important new presentations lor the market. Sales 
of horse paste and pig premix formulalloriS were again 
strong. 
Latin America, which historically has been one of ECO's strongest markets, had a particularly challenging year, 
with sales declining by some 28% in sterling compared to the prior year. Early season sales In Brazil wore poor, 
constrained by delays In the issuing or contracts and tendors. This was principally a reflection of the poor 
economic climate, but it Is pleasing to report that business rebounded to more nonmal levels late In tho second 
hall or the year. Deliveries of product to Vonezuela and Atgenlina were held back by local polillcaJ, foreign 
exchange and liquidity i$sues. The business 111 these two countries also rebounded in the last couple of months 
ol the year. 
2  ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
Sales in China pnd Japan grow by 27% compared to the prior year. Sales of Aivtosin  through our EGO BIOK 
joint venture In Chlna enjoyed strong growth driven by a combination of overall oxpnnslon of tho market and good 
po<k prices. The Aivlosin  business in Japan made good progress compnred to the prior year as the malket 
returned to more normal trading conditions. Changes to the Japanese Aivlosin  supply chain have resulted in a 
significant m;>rglrl improvomenl81l(l enhanced profitability for our ECOpharrna S~lbsidiary in that country. 
Total turnover from the Rest of World decfined slighlly compared to U1e prior year. although Aivlosin  sales were 
up almost 20%.0ur progressive global strategy of increasing Otor focus on salos of our high or margin Jl<OOUcls 
also benefits our cash flow by lowering the amount of credit offered to our distributors. 
ECO has an Impressive record of successfully obtaining marketing authorisations (also known as drug 
registrations). and currently holds in excess of GOO world-wide. A valid marketing authorisation is a legal 
requirement in every country before sales can begin. The regulatory authoriUes granting lllese authorisations 
have become incrousingly stringent over time in order to ensure drug efficacy, the safety of the animals being 
treated and also that of consumers and the environment. On~ an authorisation has been received and 
marketing commenced, ongoing work is required io protect and further enhance tho registration. EGO's 
investment in product development and regulatory work continues on further Aivlosinl!ll indications and 
presentations for existflg territories, such as lor swine in Canada and tho USA. as well as for poultry and also 
for access to new markets such as South Korea. Wo expect to bo granted moro licences over the con1lng 
months, which will allow us to address even larger new markets lot Aivlosin . 
PEOPLE 
We currently omploy over 150 people in our 15 offices around the world and we are, as always, grateful to this 
team of hard working and highly qualified specialists who are helping EGO becomo a leader in tho global anlm!ll 
health market. 
OUTLOOK 
l'h~ new year has started strongly and sales in the first quarter or the year were substantially ahead of the level 
for the same period last year. We are exclled about the prospects of further increasing our market sllaros. 
particularly in North America Tho recovery that we are currently experiencing in Lalin America end U1e expansion 
or sales in the Far East give us confidcnoe for growth in U1e coming year. In addition, as the global consumption 
of meat protein continues to increase. EGO is In an excellent position to supply the animal farming industry 
worldwide. The profits generated by our modem, fast acting treatments sllOutd continue to deliver increasing 
value to our shareholders. 
Peter Lawrence 
Executive Chairman 
11 July 2013 
3 