  
 Page 2 
EDEN RESEARCH PLC (REGISTERED NUMBER: 03071324) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 For The Year Ended 31 December 2012 
 
Introduction 
 
In my last Chairman's Report, I informed shareholders of the Board's intention to move the Company from 
the PLUS market, to the more senior AIM market in 2012. I am pleased to report that in April 2012, the 
Company did indeed make the move to AIM. The Board believes that the AIM market will provide the 
Company with a more transparent market in its shares, access to institutional investors and also help to 
validate Eden as a prominent and well established public company to potential licensees worldwide. 
 
During 2012, Eden continued to exploit its terpene and encapsulation technologies through licensing and 
research and development agreements, details of which are set out below. The European registration 
process also continued during the year according to the timetable that we gave you at the last annual 
meeting with a further key milestone having been passed. Again, further details can be found below. 
 
In December 2012, Eden appointed a new Non-Executive director, Tom Lupton, who has significant 
experience both with public companies, and with the agricultural sector. I would like to welcome Tom on 
board and wish him all the best in helping us to see Eden become a successful business and key player in 
the agricultural sector and also as a platform technology provider in other areas. 
 
Products and licensees 
 
3AEY 
 
3AEY, Eden's lead product; a terpene based fungicide, has been out-licensed to a number of parties for a 
variety of applications throughout the world. 
 
Ecostyle is continuing with trials for registration of products within the amateur gardening market. 
 
Redestos is currently undertaking field trials to gain label extensions for 3AEY in Greece and the Balkans. 
 
Cheminova is awaiting EU approval before progressing product registrations. 
 
Lachlan has received approval for 3AEY subject to the EU approval of the three acitvities in 3AEY. With this 
approval now granted, Lachlan will be able to start selling 3AEY in Kenya, which will be a significant 
milestone for both Lachlan and Eden. 
 
Nematodes 
 
Eden continues to develop the nematicide product with various partners throughout the world and validation 
testing is still underway in order to progress to licensing arrangements. 
 
We expect to see movement on this in 2013 and will update shareholders accordingly. 
 
Spider Mites and Whitefly 
 
Eden is continuing discussions with various parties to license the rights for Spider Mites and Whitefly, the 
rights for which are currently available worldwide, excluding a small number of territories already covered in 
existing licences. 
 
Trial work already done by Eden has shown good efficacy for these products and the intention is for 
prospective partners to take on the responsibility of further trials and registration. 
 
Animal Health - Bayer 
 
In January 2013, it was announced that Teva Animal Health (Teva), to whom Eden has licensed its 
encapsulation technology rights for the animal health sector in North America, had been bought by Bayer 
HealthCare (Bayer). This is clearly a significant event for Eden and paves the way for the products that 
Teva has been developing over the past few years to not only be potentially be rolled-out on a global basis, 
but to also increase the sales opportunities in North America, given Bayer's significantly larger sales team. 
   
 Page 3 
EDEN RESEARCH PLC (REGISTERED NUMBER: 03071324) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 For The Year Ended 31 December 2012 
 
The products being developed now by Bayer are a key part of the Company's sales strategy moving forward, 
with their intention to bring new, patented, environmentally and user-friendly solutions to the consumer pet 
market. 
 
We look forward to the launch of product sales in the not too distant future and to working closely with Bayer 
to extend the sales opportunities for those products and to explore other areas of interest to Bayer, outside 
of animal health. 
 
Biocides 
 
Our licensee, TerpeneTech, is making good progress in the USA for a number of biocide products and has 
agreements in place which should see products being launched in 2014. In Europe, TerpeneTech continues 
through the regulatory process to bring products to market in that region. 
 
Encapsulation 
 
Trials continued during 2012 with a number of partners using Eden's platform encapsulation technology in 
conjunction with existing, third-party active substances. The Board feels that this area of technology could be 
significant to the future success of Eden and, as such, will be allocating resources during 2013 to expedite 
development in this sector. 
 
EU approval of active substances 
 
In November 2011, The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) completed and made public its review 
which it presented to the European Commission, alongside comments made by both Eden and the UK 
regulators, the Chemicals Regulatory Directorate (CRD). 
 
I am very pleased to report that in May 2013, the three active substances used in the Company's lead 
product, 3AEY, were approved for use in plant protection products by the European Commission (EC) 
under Regulation (EC) No. 1107/2009 within the European Union (EU). 
 
These approvals are the successful outcome of a process which has taken over seven years to complete 
and into which the Company has invested considerable time and resources. This is the key regulatory 
milestone for the business and allows the actives to be used with Eden's encapsulation technology in any 
combination to create a range of agrochemical products for a variety of applications. These approvals will 
also trigger decisions by other regulators outside the EU, particularly in Africa, who monitor European 
regulatory approvals and where sales are expected in a much shorter timeframe. 
 
Now that we have passed this key milestone, we will be able to concentrate our efforts on taking products to 
market and maximising returns on the investment that we have made to date. I believe that this will not only 
be possible through the sale of agrochemicals using our actives, for which will receive royalties, but also 
through sharing with third parties the wealth of data that we have generated for the approvals. 
 
In addition using our encapsulation technologies and know-how, we will now be able to expedite 
development and commercialisation in non-agrochemical sectors, such as human and animal health, where 
we know there is demand for effective, environmentally friendly products backed up by sound intellectual 
property protection, such as ours. 
 
Intellectual Property (IP) 
 
2012 saw the granting of the Eden's master encapsulation patent in Australia, which is a key region for the 
use of agrochemicals, particularly with their established wine making industry. 
 
During the year, one of Eden's insecticide formulation patents was granted in both the African Regional 
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO) and Australia. 
 
Every time a patent is granted to Eden, the inherent value of the business increases while at the same time it 
validates the technologies and, therefore, products that Eden has to offer, which is why events such as these 
are important to the success of the company and also to shareholders. 
   
 Page 4 
EDEN RESEARCH PLC (REGISTERED NUMBER: 03071324) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 For The Year Ended 31 December 2012 
 
The Senior Management 
 
The management committee comprises: 
 
Sir Ben Gill  Non-Executive Chairman 
Ken Brooks  Executive Deputy Chairman 
Clive Newitt  Managing Director 
Alex Abrey  Chief Financial Officer 
Tom Lupton  Non-Executive Director 
 
Outlook 
 
After a number of years in process, I am delighted to report on the positive outcome of the EU registration of 
the three active substances some, or all, of which are used not only in 3AEY, our lead agrochemical product, 
but also in a number of other follow-on and related products. I believe that in achieving this milestone it has 
un-locked the door to a number of opportunities both within and outside of the agrochemical sector. 
 
The barriers to entry for any company, large or small, trying to gain registration of new active substances are 
now very high, not only in terms of cost, but, also the time, expertise and effort required to go through this 
ever-evolving process. And so, by going through this process, Eden has created a significant inherent base 
value in itself, on which we can then build further and which should provide shareholders with a maximum 
return on the investment. 
 
The potential for the encapsulation system is vast and we look forward as a Board to exploiting it in exciting 
new areas. 
 
Finally, the clearest validation of a technology is that of product sales. We shall all be pleased to see 
products using Eden's technologies being used by end consumers in fields, in glasshouses and in the home 
in a short timeframe. 
 
 
Sir A B N Gill 
Chairman 
30 May 2013 