 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 3
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Introduction
I would like to start my Report by remembering our 
previous Chairman, Sir Ben Gill, who sadly passed 
away on 8th May 2014. Sir Ben was instrumental in 
overseeing Eden's development since his appointment 
in 2009 and shall be greatly missed by the rest of the 
Board. We are very grateful for all of the work that he 
did for our Company.
Since the last Chairman's Report, I am pleased to inform 
you that your Company has met a number of key 
milestones as part of its evolution from a research and 
development company to a commercial business.
The most significant of these milestones was the 
approval by the European Commission of the three 
active substances used in Eden's first agrochemical 
product, 3AEY - a fungicidal product which is primarily 
used to protect crops against botrytis. This is the 
culmination of seven years' work and an investment 
of more than  5 million which provides Eden with a 
valuable Intellectual Property (IP ) platform from which 
to generate revenues.
The Company has already licensed 3AEY to a number 
of companies and this approval paves the way for its 
successful commercialisation and further development. 
There are a number of new products that Eden has been 
working on which use some, or all, of the same three 
active substances, in other combinations, for different 
applications. These new product opportunities should 
benefit from a shorter regulatory approval process as the 
active substances have already been approved.
In addition to this exciting development, the 
Company has progressed with the development and 
commercialisation of products through its licensees 
and partners in other business sectors including human 
health, cosmetics, flavours and fragrances and animal 
health.
Over the past two years, Eden has been positioning itself 
as a platform technology company with expertise in 
encapsulation and terpene technologies. The rationale 
being to try and maximise the exploitation of its IP base 
by partnering with other companies whose molecules 
and market access would benefit from access to Eden's 
proprietary technology. As part of this strategy, the 
company is implementing a branding campaign to 
provide recognition of where its enabling technology 
is being used by the use of the GO-E   concept and 
trademark, a similar strategy to Intel Inside .
One such example is Eden's licensee, TerpeneTech, where 
the first product using Eden's GO-E  encapsulation 
technology has been launched. TerpeneTech has 
developed an odour neutraliser product which is being 
distributed initially in France. TerpeneTech expects to be 
selling a further six or more GO-E  based products by 
the end of 2014.
It is very pleasing to see the first products being sold 
which use Eden's GO-E  based technologies and we 
look forward to many more to come.
I shall now provide you with a brief update on Eden's 
various commercial activities.
EU approval process
As already mentioned, in May 2013 the three active 
substances used in the Company's lead product, 3AEY, 
were approved for use in plant protection products by 
the European Commission under Regulation (EC) No. 
1107/2009 within the EU and this approval came into 
effect on 1st December 2013.
Whilst the EU granted approval for Eden's three active 
substances, certain additional confirmatory data were 
requested to be submitted and this will lead to further 
investment of around  500k over the next 12 months.
In October 2013, Eden applied to have 3AEY approved 
in the southern zone within the EU. It is expected that 
the first country approval will be granted at the end of 
2014, with the remaining countries within the southern 
zone granting approval in spring 2015, as previously 
reported.
Once approval has been granted, it is expected that 
sales of 3AEY will commence in the EU southern zone 
through Eden's licensees shortly thereafter. REGISTERED NUMBER: 3071324 (England and Wales) 4
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
(continued) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3AEY
3AEY, Eden's lead product; a terpene based fungicide, 
has been out-licensed to a number of parties for a 
variety of applications throughout the world.
Redestos is currently undertaking field trials to gain label 
extensions (for additional crops) for 3AEY in Greece and 
the Balkans.
Cheminova is awaiting EU approval, expected in spring 
2015, before selling 3AEY.
Lachlan has received approval for 3AEY, however, the 
Pesticide Control Board stipulated that it should be 
subject to one national EU approval of 3AEY. This was 
is a significant bureaucratic variation from the original 
process that was started. Once this approval has been 
granted, Lachlan will be able to start selling 3AEY in 
Kenya and they are geared to launch in November 2014.
Due to the high regulatory barriers that have been 
created by certain EU authorities, registration of a 
diluted version of 3AEY for amateur gardening use has 
proved to be uneconomic for the territories originally 
licensed to ECOstyle. Both parties have mutually agreed 
to terminate their agreement and we are in discussions 
with a pan-European gardening business to exploit this 
opportunity.
Eden has also ended its agreement with Environmental 
Solutions North Africa Limited, following the tragic 
death of Ian Redford, Managing Director and majority 
shareholder.
Eden is in advanced negotiations with other interested 
parties to step-in as a replacement.
Nematodes
Eden continues to develop its nematicide product with 
partners throughout the world and validation and 
spectrum testing is still underway in order to progress to 
licensing arrangements.
We expect to see movement on this shortly and will 
update shareholders accordingly.
Earlier stage Products
Eden is continuing to try to exploit early stage leads 
identified for the control of insect pests, such as Whitefly 
and Spider mites together with fungicidal applications 
to minimise Post-harvest losses from spoilage organisms. 
Since the approval of its core three active substances, 
there have been renewed discussions with various 
parties to license these rights.
Animal Health - Bayer
During 2013, the team developing Eden's products went 
through significant personnel changes, following the 
acquisition of TEVA Animal Health by Bayer HealthCare 
(Bayer ) in January 2013. As previously announced, 
this has led to some inevitable delays in the launch of 
products by Bayer, but, progress is still being made and 
it is expected that products will be commercialised in the 
next year.
Biocides
Since the year end, TerpeneTech announced that it 
had successfully launched its first product, an odour 
neutraliser initially into the French market. TerpeneTech 
has made significant advances in the development and 
commercialisation of GO-E   products since it signed 
its licence agreement with Eden and is expected to 
launch a number of further products this year in Europe 
and the USA.
Human health
In June 2013, Eden signed an agreement with 
NeoPharma Innovations Limited (Neo ) providing 
them with the exclusive rights to head-lice products. 
Since then, Neo has been very busy pursuing regulatory 
approval in both the European Union (EU ) and India, 
as well as progressing talks with interested distributors. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
(continued) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 
Encapsulation
The interest in using Eden's GO-E  system continues 
to increase and a number of on-going encapsulation 
projects are underway, primarily in the agrochemicals 
sector, but, also in cosmetics, fragrances and human 
health.
During the past twelve months, the Eden team has 
attended various industry conferences and taken 
the opportunity to present its Platform technology 
capabilities to a worldwide audience.
Intellectual Property (IP )
2013 saw the granting of the Eden's master 
encapsulation patent in both Europe and the African 
Regional Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO ) 
region, both of which are key areas for the use of 
agrochemicals covering the wine, vegetable, fruit and 
ornamental flowers industries. The master encapsulation 
patent was also granted in the Philippines.
Also during the year, one of Eden's insecticide 
formulation patents was granted in the ARIPO region.
Every time a patent is granted to Eden, the inherent 
value of the business increases while at the same time it 
validates the technologies and, therefore, products that 
Eden has to offer, which is why events such as these are 
important to the success of the company and also to 
shareholders.
The company now holds a total of forty five granted 
technology and product related patents throughout the 
world.
The granting of EU approval for its three active 
substances has also led to a number of unsolicited 
approaches by third parties seeking Letters of Access  
in return for financial compensation. This is an accepted 
system throughout the regulated industries, such as 
Agrochemical and Biocides, whereby the data holder 
issues such Letters of Access to third parties in order 
to expedite product registrations and eliminate the 
unnecessary duplication of testing of substances 
on vertebrate species. A recent example of this was 
announced concerning the Spanish company DAYMSA.
The Senior Management
During 2013 the management committee comprised:
Sir Ben Gill - Non-Executive Chairman (deceased 8th 
May 2014)
Tom Lupton - Non-Executive Director (Chairman with 
effect from 19th May 2014)
Ken Brooks - Executive Deputy Chairman
Clive Newitt - Managing Director
Alex Abrey - Chief Financial Officer
Outlook
With the significant EU regulatory hurdle having been 
surmounted, national product approvals just around the 
corner and product sales already underway, I am very 
optimistic that Eden has a bright future and that all of 
the hard work and significant investment is now coming 
to fruition.
The Board is confident that it will be able to deliver 
against the shareholders' high expectations. In addition 
to new licence agreements being signed and royalties 
being received within the next twelve months, it is the 
Board's intention to re-organise the business so as to 
further protect its IP and maximise shareholder value 
from each business sector where GO-E  is applicable.
This, we believe, will clarify Eden's valuable business 
proposition to investors and also strategically place Eden 
in the sights of larger companies who are interested in 
adopting our various technologies for their particular 
market sector.
I think that 2014 will prove to be a pivotal year for Eden 
and am excited by the prospects that lie ahead.
T G Lupton 
Chairman 
2nd June 2014