 20870.04   09/11/11   Proof 11
Egdon Resources plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.egdonresources.com 02
Chairman's Review
Philip Stephens
I am pleased to be able to report good progress 
during the year ended 31 July 2011.
Despite frustrations caused by delays in the start of 
production at the Kirkleatham and Ceres gas fields, year 
on year production has grown by 73%. Net production at 
the end of the period (July 2011) was 420 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day (boepd ) with Keddington, Avington 
and Kirkleatham on production. Subsequent to the year 
end, production has resumed at Ceres. However, with the 
expected reduced production at Keddington and Kirkleatham 
as detailed below we now expect average production of 
around 400 boepd during the current financial year.
Financial
The Company recorded a profit after tax of  4.08 million 
for the period (2010:  0.24 million). This includes a profit 
on disposal of  4.3 million related to the sale of Egdon 
Resources (New Ventures) Ltd which held some of our 
French assets and exploration write-downs of  0.89 million. 
Revenue from oil and gas production during the year was 
up 90% to  2.38 million (2010:  1.25 million) on production 
of 46,919 barrels of oil equivalent (boe ) (2010: 27,056 
boe). In line with last year the Directors do not currently 
recommend the payment of a dividend.
Further details of the financial results are given in the 
Financial Review on page 12 and Financial Statements and 
notes pages 23 to 54.
Board Changes
Co-founder of Egdon, Andrew Hindle, stepped down from 
the Board during the year and I would like to record our 
gratitude for his significant contribution since 1997. I can 
also advise that John Rix has informed the Board that he 
intends to retire as a non-executive Director with effect 
from the forthcoming AGM and I would again like to record 
my appreciation for his contribution to the Company.
Corporate Activity and Portfolio Management
In October 2010 we completed the sale of some of our 
French interests for  4.5 million in cash to eCORP Oil and 
Gas UK Limited (eCORP ) and in the same month we 
completed the acquisition of EnCore (E&P) Limited (now 
renamed Egdon (E&P) Limited) which holds two permits 
in France for a cash consideration of  100,000. In July 
2011 we agreed the sale of a combined 10% interest in 
PEDL070 which contains the Avington oil field, for a cash 
consideration of  400,000.
We have continued to rationalise and develop our licence 
holdings as part of our wider strategy. During the year we 
relinquished seven UK licences as they did not meet our 
technical and commercial thresholds or had come to the 
end of their current terms. During June 2011 we completed 
the acquisition and normalisation of interests in two East 
Midlands licences from Valhalla Oil and Gas UK Limited, 
assuming operatorship of one of them. We have also 
farmed-out interests in the Gainsborough Trough to eCORP 
and we expect a shale-gas exploration well to be drilled 
there during 2012. 
As at 31 July 2011 Egdon holds interests in 29 licences 
in the UK and France and is awaiting the award of two 
further licences in the UK and one in France, including one 
containing a potentially significant near-shore gas discovery. 
Production
In spite of disruptions caused by the severe winter in 
December, production shutdowns due to drilling at 
Keddington and the delays in production at Kirkleatham  
and Ceres, we achieved a 73% increase in production 
volumes peaking in July 2011 at 420 boepd.
Keddington, which we originally purchased for just 
 250,000 continues to perform well. The field produces 
oil and significant quantities of associated gas from two 
wells, Keddington-3Z and Keddington-4, which was 
successfully drilled during April 2011. A decision has been 
made to constrain overall field production in the short-
term to around 125-135 barrels of oil per day (bopd ) (Net 
Egdon c. 100 bopd) to conserve the significant volumes of 
associated gas which is currently being flared until a longer 
term commercial solution can be found to enable electricity 
generation or gas export. 
Developing a full 
cycle exploration and 
production business. 20870.04   09/11/11   Proof 11
Stock code:     07 Egdon Resources plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Stock code: EDR 03 Egdon Resources plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
AGM Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Following a number of operational delays, the Kirkleatham 
gas field achieved first production on 19 April 2011. The 
well has produced gas at rates of up to 5 million cubic feet 
of gas per day (mmcfg/d ) but this has been gradually 
reduced to manage reservoir pressure, match power output 
from the Sembcorp owned gas turbine and maximise 
recovery. In recent months the well has started to produce 
some associated formation water. The well is currently shut-
in awaiting intervention to remove accumulated water from 
the tubing. On resumption of production it is planned that 
the well will produce between 1.5 and 2.0 mmcfg/d (Net 
Egdon 0.6 to 0.8 mmcfg/d or 100 to 133 boepd) to manage 
reservoir pressure and maximise recovery. 
The Ceres gas field (in which Egdon holds a 10% interest) 
was shut-in for all but seven days of production during the 
year due to the maintenance of the BP Cleeton platform 
through which gas is delivered to shore. Following a further 
maintenance shut-down during July and August 2011 gas 
production finally resumed on 17 September 2011. We have 
experienced some additional issues and production down-
time during October which now appear to be resolved. 
Long-term net Egdon production is expected to be around 
1.2 mmcfg/d (200 boepd).
Avington, where Egdon now holds a 26.67% interest, 
has continued to produce in line with expectations during 
the year (Net Egdon c. 20 bopd).
Planning consent has been received for production at  
Dukes Wood-1 and we anticipate production from the 
combined Dukes Wood/Eakring/Kirklington production  
unit early in 2012 (Net Egdon 25 bopd). 
With the expected reduced production from Kirkleatham 
and short-term scaling back of flows at Keddington we now 
expect production to be around 400 boped for the coming 
year from existing fields.
Exploration and Appraisal
The Best Estimate of our Prospective Resources as at  
31 July 2011 in the UK and France is 248 million barrels 
of oil equivalent (mmboe ) which highlights significant 
potential for growth through exploration for Egdon. We 
plan an active exploration and appraisal drilling programme 
in the coming years to evaluate the best of these prospects. 
Further details of our UK and French drilling plans are set 
out in the Operational Review which follows this statement.
During the period Egdon participated in the Markwells 
Wood-1 oil discovery drilled in West Sussex which is 
currently being prepared for testing.
Seismic data has been acquired over the Burton on the 
Wolds prospect and further seismic acquisition is planned 
for later in 2011 over the prospective Broughton-Wressle 
trend.
Following award of planning consent we anticipate a re-
entry of the Nooks Farm-1 gas discovery during the coming 
period. We were disappointed by the refusal of planning for 
the Holmwood prospect and expect to appeal this decision. 
We are currently identifying suitable drilling sites and 
developing a number of planning applications for the 2012 
drilling programme.
An extended well test (EWT ) is underway at the Waddock 
Cross oil accumulation and we expect to be able to report the 
results and a decision on future development early in 2012.
France remains a focus for Egdon although a new law in 
France banning hydraulic fracturing has effectively curtailed 
near-term oil-shale and shale-gas development in the 
country. The planned well in the Mairy Permit is not now 
expected until 2012. Elsewhere in France we continue to 
progress exploration and expect to acquire seismic during 
early 2012 in Pontenx and St Laurent with drilling possible in 
Pontenx late in 2012. 
We also expect to be an active participant in the UK's long 
awaited 14th Landward Licensing Round and are awaiting a 
potential award in the 26th Offshore Round.
Outlook
Our strategy remains the same. We aim to develop a full 
cycle onshore exploration and production business, with the 
growing revenue stream from oil and gas production being 
reinvested to facilitate growth in the underlying asset value 
of the business.
Whilst we have achieved good progress in the last year,  
the reduced production levels from Kirkleatham will result  
in a reduction in our expected production target from  
500 boepd to around 400 boepd during the coming year 
from existing fields. 
We have managed our cash position carefully and forecast 
positive cash flow during the coming year. This will enable 
us to embark on a more active exploration programme 
during 2012. 
Whilst our primary focus will be a multi-well programme 
in the East Midlands where we are testing net Egdon 
resource potential of 15 mmbo in five prospects, in total we 
are planning to participate in up to 12 wells over the next 
18 months targeting 33 mmboe (Net Egdon Prospective 
Resources).
We will continue to look to build shareholder value by 
strengthening the quality of our asset portfolio, the active 
drilling programme highlighted above and looking to realise 
value from assets at the appropriate time.
We have a small team of dedicated staff and on behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank them for their continuing 
efforts during the year. 
Philip Stephens
Non-Executive Chairman
4 November 2011