 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2 EMERALD ENERGY Plc
2005 was another important year for Emerald and its shareholders. The Group has continued its growth in Colombia
and purchased new interests in the Middle East.
Colombia
During 2005, Emerald added five new production wells to its production portfolio, achieving a 100% drilling success
rate since resumption of drilling in 2004. Successful drilling at the Vigia field has added 2.4 million barrels of Proved
plus Probable reserves, achieving a reserves replacement ratio of 199%. 
Emerald has constructed new and enlarged facilities at the Vigia and Campo Rico fields to gather, process and dispatch
the increasing volumes of crude from the additional production wells. As the fields mature these facilities will be altered
to handle the increasing volumes of water production in order to sustain the oil production rates at the highest possible
level. 
The upturn seen in the oil and gas industry in the last 12 months has had an adverse effect on rig availability as well
as supplier costs and on their ability to deliver and meet schedules; Emerald's Colombian management and staff have
handled these additional pressures very well, implementing alternative drilling and production solutions, minimising
delays and fulfilling the Company's capital programme as planned.
Successful development of the Campo Rico field in the Campo Rico block resulted in the grant of commerciality status
to the field by Ecopetrol, the Colombian state oil company, in December 2005. A similar decision on the status of the
Vigia field is expected in the near future. Under the terms of the Campo Rico Association Contract, once commerciality
status is granted, Ecopetrol participates in the exploitation phase of the project, reimbursing Emerald 50% of the
allowable past costs from its share of production and sharing with Emerald ongoing costs and production on a 50/50
basis. 
Utilising the results of the 3D seismic survey acquired in 2005, covering some 172 sq km or one third of the Campo
Rico block, Emerald is planning to drill at least five new wells in 2006; including exploration wells on at least two new
prospects, Centauro Sur and Las Acacias. Centauro Sur #1, spud in March 2006, has been drilled to a total depth of
11,265 feet using Pride Rig 14. The well logs identified a zone with potential hydrocarbons, and production casing is
being run so that a flow test of the zone can be conducted. Saxon Rig 223 is rigging up on the location for Las Acacias
#1 and the well will spud at the end of April or in early May. 
In December 2005,the Gigante #1A well developed a tubing leak after producing two million barrels of crude oil over
a five-year period. A workover rig was mobilised in early 2006 and, simultaneously with the tubing repair, the field staff
installed an electric submersible pump to replace the smaller capacity hydraulic jet pump. Following an initial clean-up
period, the well produces in excess of 900 bopd (2005 average of 676 bopd) with the potential to increase production
rate further when a larger electric generator is fully commissioned. 
The exploitation phase of the Gigante field started on 1 February 2003 under the sole risk provision of the Matambo
Association Contract. Once the sole risks status was granted, Emerald became entitled to 100% of production (before
royalties) from the Gigante field for as long as it had a balance of reimbursable costs outstanding in its favour. In March
2006, Ecopetrol exercised its right to participate in the exploitation of the Gigante field. Joint operation of the Gigante
field may create an opportunity to drill a second well at Gigante jointly with Ecopetrol, sharing the associated costs and
risks, if the required agreement with Ecopetrol is reached. However, the drilling of the Gigante #2 well will not take
place before 2007. 3
The Silfide #1 exploration well, drilled on the Fortuna block in October 2005, discovered hydrocarbons that are currently
being produced at an average daily rate of some 30 bopd. In addition to the potential of the Silfide discovery, Emerald
is evaluating the feasibility to drill a horizontal well to produce the reserves of the Totumal field, also situated in the
Fortuna block. The Totumal field, which is deeper than the Lisama reservoir, targeted by the Silfide #1 well, was
produced by Ecopetrol until 1993, when it was abandoned after producing over 800,000 barrels of oil. Ecopetrol has
granted Emerald a three-month extension to the current exploration period to evaluate the options before Emerald
either commits to drilling a further well on the block, applies for commerciality for Silfide, or returns the block to
Ecopetrol. 
The Agueda #1 exploration well, drilled on the El Algarrobo block in March 2006, recovered no hydrocarbons during
a flow test and was plugged and abandoned. As Agueda was the only prospect identified on the block, the Company
expects to return the block to Ecopetrol and terminate the Association Contract.
In the reporting period, all of Emerald's production came from the Campo Rico block (the Campo Rico and the Vigia
fields) and the Matambo block (the Gigante field) in Colombia. In 2005, Emerald achieved an average gross production
rate of 3,301 bopd, a 150% increase on 1,322 bopd achieved in 2004. On the entitlement basis, in 2005, Emerald
achieved 2,293 bopd compared to 1,128 bopd achieved in 2004.
In the first quarter of 2006, Emerald's gross production averaged 4,336 bopd, compared to 4,451 bopd achieved in
the fourth quarter of 2005. This 2.5% decline in production is a result of failures of the rented hydraulic pumping
equipment at the Campo Rico and Vigia fields as well as constrained production from the Gigante #1A well in the
period leading up to, during and immediately after its workover. As the surface facilities at the producing fields are
upgraded, higher production levels will be achieved.
Syria
In November 2005, Emerald purchased a 50% participating interest in the contract to explore and produce
hydrocarbons from Block 26, Syria; the consideration was $7.2 million, plus the issue of 3.5 million ordinary shares,
deferred to May 2007. Gulfsands Petroleum Plc (Gulfsands ) is the operator and holder of the remaining 50%
participating interest in the block. The block is situated in the northeast of Syria in a proven hydrocarbon system
evidenced by existing discovered fields within the blocks boundaries, some of which have been developed and currently
produce in excess of 100,000 bopd. 
In January 2006, a 2D seismic acquisition programme covering 1,155 km in the block was completed. Once the newly
acquired seismic data is processed and integrated with the older existing seismic data, it will be interpreted and
subsequently used to enhance the understanding of the many leads and prospects that have been identified in the
block. 
Emerald and Gulfsands are on track to exceed the minimum work obligations under the Block 26 contract of drilling four
wells by August 2007. In April 2006 two rigs were contracted to drill three wells with options to drill a further two wells.  
Two prospects have been selected to commence the drilling programme:
  Souedieh North prospect is a Cretaceous target situated within the northeast part of the block, located between
the existing Souedieh and Karatchok fields. It is planned to spud the North Souedieh #1 exploration well in the
second quarter of 2006.
EMERALD ENERGY Plc CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT - continued
4 EMERALD ENERGY Plc
  Tigris structure is also located in the northeast part of the block and is directly underlying the Souedieh oil field
that produces from the shallower Cretaceous reservoirs. Using data from a well drilled into the structure in 1994
and the extensive 3D seismic data available for the Souedieh field, Ryder Scott Company LP has prepared an
independent reserves study for the Tigris structure, the details of which can be found in the Review of Operations.
The Ryder Scott study has concluded that there are potentially productive zones contained within Palaeozoic age
reservoirs penetrated by the earlier well bore. It is planned to spud the Tigris #1 exploration well in third quarter
of 2006 with the primary objectives being a series of Carboniferous and Devonian sandstone reservoirs.
Russia
In 2005, Emerald terminated the conditional Sale and Purchase Agreement, announced on 11 November 2004, to
acquire a 25% interest in JSC Krasnoyarskgazprom. The termination was without penalty and resulted from Emerald
being unable to fully satisfy itself with regard to the security of the title to the exploration and production licenses held
by JSC Krasnoyarskgazprom.
Financial results
The results for the year ended 31 December 2005 show a profit before tax of $8.0 million achieved on the revenue of
$32.1 million compared with a profit before tax of $2.2 million achieved on the revenue of $12.5 million in the year
ended 31 December 2004. Through continued production growth and helped by further strengthening of the oil prices,
in the reporting period, Emerald generated an adjusted EBITDA of $16.7 million compared to $3.8 million achieved in
2004 (adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, depletion, amortisation and write-offs of oil & gas
assets, excluding other income, non-operating items and cost recovery adjustments). Cash at 31 December 2005
totalled $20.7 million compared with $23.6 million at 31 December 2004. The Company does not propose to declare
a dividend for 2005 as it intends to use its cash reserves and strong cash flow to finance the growth of the Group and
its operations.
Outlook
Emerald's objectives are to grow its reserve base and increase its net production through exploration and development
of existing and new acreage.
The five-well drilling programme in Colombia will explore for, and add to, reserves and production. The drilling
programme for 2006 in Syria, which continues into 2007, is designed for exploration and will test the potential of some
substantial prospects; success on any one of which will greatly enhance Emerald's reserve base. 
The exploration department in Colombia has been strengthened and given a wider remit to look both in Colombia and
in the surrounding countries of South America. At the same time, UK based management and staff are reviewing
further opportunities to acquire new exploration acreage, farm-in to existing acreage with established partners and
acquire established assets in new international locations. 
The Company's year-on-year production growth and the current world oil price will continue to generate strong positive
cash flow, which with the Company's current cash resources, will be used to explore to create a substantial reserve base.
Alastair Beardsall
Chairman
13 April 2006