 Chairman's Statement
Our UK aggregates business made excellent progress with its strategy
to maximise higher margin value added products and to secure direct
routes to market. Ennstone Thistle, our Scottish operation, returned
record profits.  Its strong performance was partly due to the successful
completion of the high profile A92 contract which completed some
seven months ahead of schedule, demonstrating our ability to respond
quickly to the demands of modern day highway authorities.
Our contracting and surfacing business continues to make rapid progress
and has been, in all our operating regions, a significant part of the growth
of Ennstone Thistle. The strategy to provide a greater proportion of in-
house aggregates into our value added products progressed well during
the year and we have invested in further ready mixed concrete plants with
twelve units now operational. During the year, we acquired JH Connon, a
contracting and ready mixed concrete business in the important
Grampian region, further strengthening our market position.
Ennstone Johnston, the enlarged English operation, brought together
Johnston and our own English aggregates businesses.  The combination
of these two operations has improved our geographic coverage of the
Midlands region and generated good synergy and cost benefits. We now
have an excellent mixture of high quality aggregate reserves which gives
us the ability to meet customer demands for both dry and coated
products.
The Midlands market remained competitive with resulting pressure on
02 Ennstone Annual Report 2005
I am very pleased to report that the Group made significant progress in
2005 with strong operating performances in both UK and US
aggregates.  The UK aggregates result is particularly pleasing following
the successful integration of the Johnston business which was
acquired in November 2004.  Key disposals during the year, including
the sale of Johnston's engineering interests and other non core assets,
generated gross proceeds in excess of  30 million.  In addition, the
Group entered into an option agreement, prior to the year-end, to sell
part of the Building Products site at Telford, a Johnston site, for  10.5
million, subject to planning consent for residential use.
The Group is now required to report results under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and these accounts have been
presented on this basis.  The comparative figures for 2004 have been
restated accordingly.
The strong operating performance resulted in Group revenue
increasing by 43% to  159.8 million.  Total Group operating profit,
including the Group's share of associates, increased to  18.6 million.
Basic earnings per share for the year were 2.39 pence per share.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 0.92 pence per share, up
8.2%, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 1.32 pence per share,
an increase of 7.3% over the previous year.  The increase is in line with
our progressive dividend policy and reflects the Board's confidence in
the Group's strategy and the success of its delivery. 
The Group made significant progress in 2005 
with strong operating performances in both 
UK and US aggregates.
1. Pages 1-13 [c92934].qxd  11/4/06  15:17  Page 2 profit margins. This was partly offset by our strategy of maximising
aggregate margins through value added products, which continued
during the year.  The key to this strategy was our ability to obtain planning
permissions for new asphalt and concrete plants throughout our
operations.
In October, we acquired J & H Parry, a surfacing contractor in the West
Midlands, further enhancing the development of our integrated English
business model in line with our achievements in Scotland.  Since the
end of the year, we have also acquired the asphalt and aggregate
business of Ayton Products, based in Norfolk, and Smiths
(Construction), a surfacing contractor in the East Midlands, thereby
significantly extending our market coverage and providing further
outlets for the Group's aggregates.
Both of the Johnston quarries acquired last year have asphalt plants
which supply the West Midlands market.  Recently, we gained
planning permissions for new ready mixed concrete plants at both
sites and this enables additional aggregates from these quarries to be
used in downstream products.  We also gained planning permission
for a ready mixed concrete plant at our sand and gravel quarry at Ling
Hall, which covers the Coventry and Rugby markets.  In addition, the
important planning permission to build an asphalt plant, together with a
ready mixed concrete plant, at the Group's largest quarry at Cloud Hill,
Breedon on the Hill, was granted in October.  
Breedon Special Aggregates, our Breedon Golden Amber Gravel and
bagged aggregates operation, continued its excellent progress.  This
first-class decorative aggregates business has established its own
niche product market and continues to grow and perform very well.
Ennstone Building Products, which combines the Group's concrete
products and natural stone businesses, has developed into a key
division of the Group.  This business has seen growth in volumes for
water attenuation systems, although demand for pipes and cable
troughing has been static.  Products going into the private house
building sector have seen some reduction in volumes but the growth in
social housing has softened the impact.  Demand for natural stone
products from Stainton and De Lank has been buoyant.
In 2006, we expect the Building Products division to use an increasing
proportion of Group materials, providing a further route to market for
our aggregates.  In addition, as we maximise the production of single
sized aggregates at Cloud Hill, this division provides us with an
excellent outlet for the washed fines, a by-product from this process.
In the US, Ennstone, Inc. delivered on its key strategic objectives for
2005, not only achieving an excellent result, but laying the foundations
for a strong performance in 2006 with the recent acquisitions of
Bluestone Concrete, Roxbury Ready Mix, and B&B Concrete.  We
have also completed the acquisition of McKnight Sand & Gravel, which
will provide a further 5.5 million tons of sand and gravel reserves in the
Pennsylvania area.  Collectively, these acquisitions significantly
strengthen our regional market position.
US trading was excellent and delivered another strong result, partly
due to the continued buoyant housing market in Virginia.  This,
combined with ongoing investment in our US operations, both through
acquisition and greenfield development, has given us a strong position
in our markets.  We now have an integrated supply position with wide
regional coverage.
Due to the growth in demand for sand and gravel by our ready mixed
concrete operations, we are increasing aggregate production capacity
and bringing new quarries on stream.  This will provide us with an
excellent base for our business and underpin profit growth in 
future years. 
Ennbeton, now a wholly owned subsidiary, continues to pursue its
acquisition strategy to gain a substantial market share in North West
Poland in both aggregates and ready mixed concrete.  Recently, a
sand and gravel operation at Dobropole and two ready mixed concrete
plants near Poznan were acquired.  These acquisitions are a significant
step towards achieving our objectives and lay the foundations for
further progress in 2006 and beyond.  With growth in the Polish
market starting to become evident, the opportunities for our business
are exciting.
BEAR Scotland Limited, our associated highways maintenance
business, had a successful year, moving into profit for the first time.
Although BEAR did not retain the North West Highway Maintenance
contract, the company has proved that it has the management
expertise to run a successful operation and will be endeavouring to
retain the North East contract which is likely to be out for tender later
this year. 
The appointment of a new Finance Director is imminent.  Accordingly,
John Barlow will retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting on 18 May 2006.  John has agreed to make himself
available to the Group on a consultancy basis thereafter to ensure a
smooth handover to his successor.
We welcomed Eric Gadsden to the Board in May, as an independent
non-executive director. He brings a wealth of experience in the
industry.  Malcolm Gibbins, previously finance director of Ennstone
Johnston, was appointed as Company Secretary in July. 
Philippa Marriott, non-executive director, whose current term ends at
the Annual General Meeting, will not be offering herself for re-election.
Philippa joined the Board with the acquisition of Johnston to help with
the integration process, and we thank her for her valuable support.
She has agreed to be available to the Group on a consultancy basis.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone in the Group for
their dedication, hard work, loyalty and enthusiasm in delivering these
excellent results.  This would not have been possible without the
continuing commitment and professionalism of all our people. 
2006 will bring new challenges in an ever changing market.   Energy
and raw material costs across the Group, which increased significantly
during 2005, will continue to rise in the current year. The Group has
been able to partially recover these costs through price increases, but
maintaining our lowest cost base position may prove challenging.
In 2006, our Scottish business will have a year of consolidation, whilst
maintaining its strong market position.  The significant capital
expenditure programme in our English aggregates business will allow
us to continue to increase the proportions of our own materials to be
used in value added products and provide a full product range across
the Midlands market.  Our US business will continue to develop and,
following the recent acquisitions of ready mixed concrete operations,
we expect the strong performance to continue.  
Over 2006 and 2007, with foundations being laid through acquisitions
and capital expenditure across the business, we are confident that the
Group will make excellent progress.  The year has started in line with
our expectations.
Vaughan McLeod
Executive Chairman
Ennstone Annual Report 2005 03
1. Pages 1-13 [c92934].qxd  11/4/06  15:17  Page 3