 08 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman's Statement
2008 demonstrated the 
strengths of ENRC's low cost, 
integrated mining operations. 
We were able to take 
advantage of the growth 
opportunities available in  
the early part of the year and 
to withstand the sudden 
deterioration in the market in 
the autumn. The strength of 
our balance sheet gives us 
resilience and provides us with 
a base from which to grow by 
acquisition. We will evaluate  
all such opportunities with 
great care. 
2008 was an important year for ENRC being the Group's first full year as 
a listed company. Our inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index in March 2008 
followed from the success of our listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and was a reflection of the efforts of our management and employees 
building up to this outcome. ENRC delivered exceptional results in 2008 
with underlying EBITDA of US$4.2 billion (2007: US$1.9 billion) and 
profit after tax of US$2.7 billion (2007: US$0.8 billion). I would like to 
thank our employees for all their hard work and dedication that made 
this performance possible. 
However, despite the record result, 2008 was a year of mixed fortunes, 
with demand and prices very favourable for most of the year followed 
by a sudden downturn in the autumn. The Group's management took 
rapid and decisive action to address the change in market conditions. 
The Board feels that it will be some while before the market returns to  
a better balance of demand and supply but our efforts will concentrate 
on retaining our position as a low cost producer, taking full advantage 
of our integrated mining, processing, energy production and logistics 
operations which are well positioned to serve, in particular, the nearby 
growth markets of China and Russia. 
The Board was largely assembled in the run-up to the Initial Public 
Offering and one of the key challenges for a new Board in its first year 
of operation is for the Directors to quickly form a cohesive working unit. 
The Board has made great progress during the year and at the end of 
2008 we engaged external consultants to undertake a full evaluation of 
the Directors' and the Board's overall performance. The findings were 
positive and have provided us with a firm basis from which to continue 
to strengthen both our governance processes and the Board as a whole 
has rapidly coalesced since then. 
During the current economic uncertainty it is important that the Board 
provides robust leadership. In 2008 the wide range of experience of  
our Directors has provided a strong platform from which to guide and 
support the Group's senior management team as it addresses the 
challenges of managing a public listed company and during a period of 
major economic turmoil. 
Strategy
A key responsibility of the Board is to define the Group's strategy. The 
Board, in response to the current opportunities available to the Group, 
has broadened its view on potential value enhancing acquisition 
prospects. This is made possible by our relatively strong balance sheet 
and earnings potential. The five strategic goals of the Group are:
To maintain and improve on our low-cost operations. > >
To continue expansion and development of the existing reserves > >
and capacity.
To add value and customer diversity by expanding our product > >
portfolio.
To expand our asset portfolio and footprint in the natural resources > >
sector, both within the region and worldwide.
To commit to high standards of corporate responsibility, with > >
particular reference to health and safety. 
The broadening of our acquisitions strategy results from the attractive 
valuations for natural resources assets offered by the current economic 
environment. The Board will carefully assess all opportunities to 
ensure that they offer value accretion to all shareholders and fully 
utilise and broaden the Group's capabilities.
The strategy is a balanced and flexible combination of enhancing 
existing assets, organic expansion and acquisitions. The strategy aims 
to bridge the Group's current position as a leading, diversified natural 
resource group largely based in the Republic of Kazakhstan, with  
its aspiration to become a more international mining group. Within  
the strategy is an optionality that enables the Group to respond to 
conditions and opportunities. Growth in shareholder value is achieved 
over time by achieving a higher sustained operational growth rate  
by the businesses which should then be reflected in the share price  
and dividend, as benchmarked against our peer mining companies. 
Management and shareholder interests are aligned through 
appropriate incentives linked to the delivery of value for shareholders. 
Sir David Cooksey
Chairman
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB! 2008
2007
US$4.2 billion 
US$ 1.9 billion 
2008
2007
US$2.7 billion 
US$0.8 billion 
09 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our aspirations to grow internationally have been reflected in our 
acquisitions of Serov in Russia and a 50% interest in Tuoli in China, 
both ferrochrome operations, and a 50% interest in BML, which is 
developing an iron ore deposit in Brazil. Since the year end our desire 
to grow in the Republic of Kazakhstan has been demonstrated by our 
acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol, a major semi-coke and 
thermal coal producer and an important supplier to our operations, 
with an option to purchase the remaining 75%.
The proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and our strong cash flow  
in 2008 enabled us to plan major capital expenditure and to make 
acquisitions. We still enjoy a very strong balance sheet, but our plans 
will be tempered by market conditions which, while impacting our cash 
flow on the one hand, should also provide opportunities to make well 
priced acquisitions on the other. We will also press hard to achieve cost 
reductions in our business to keep our competitive edge and to offset 
the relatively high levels of inflation experienced in the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. 
Corporate governance
High standards of corporate governance continue to be a key area of 
focus for the Board. We continue to monitor the Group's performance 
against established standards so as to ensure that the proper level  
of oversight is provided in order to give the best possible assurances  
to shareholders and other stakeholders. We have very good working 
relationships with our Founder Shareholders and with the Government 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan, both of which are a source of strength 
for the Group. 
In July 2008, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan replicated 
the minority ownership model it has in ENRC by acquiring a 15% stake 
in Kazakhmys in a share swap exchange for 7.7% of ENRC. Kazakhmys 
subsequently acquired further shares in the market and is now our 
largest shareholder with a 26% holding. However, as a competitor for 
resources in the Republic of Kazakhstan, we do not believe that it is in 
the interest of all shareholders that Kazakhmys should have a seat on 
the Board of ENRC. Since we run our businesses completely separately 
Kazakhmys has no significant influence over the ENRC strategic or 
operating decision making processes. 
Succession
The Board is pleased to announce that Dr Johannes Sittard, Chief 
Executive Officer of the Group, has agreed to extend his contract  
of employment and will remain with the Group up to 30 September 
2010. The Board has initiated the process of finding the successor  
to Dr Sittard and is seeking to recruit his replacement by the end  
of 2009 in order to facilitate an orderly handover to the new Chief 
Executive Officer.
The Board also announces that Mr Miguel Perry, Chief Financial Officer 
of the Group, has given notice of his intention to leave the Group. 
Miguel Perry will step down as Chief Financial Officer and from the 
Board and will leave the Group with effect from 30 June 2009. Following 
the Group's successful Initial Public Offering, in December 2007, and 
its first full year as a public limited company, Miguel Perry is leaving  
in order to be able to further develop his career, building on his 
experience of preparing a company for a public offering and the 
success he has achieved. The Board would like to thank Miguel Perry 
for his valuable contribution to the Company over the last two years.  
It is the Board's intention to appoint as his replacement a suitable 
external candidate for the role of Chief Financial Officer. The process  
is well underway and a further announcement is expected to be made 
in the next few weeks.
Outlook
Despite the current uncertainties, we believe that the Group is uniquely 
well-placed to benefit once stability returns to the global economy.  
Our focus for the coming year is to ensure that our strategy continues  
to deliver value to all our shareholders. 
Sir David Cooksey
Chairman
Underlying EBITDA
Profit after tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Reserves Corporate Information Group Overview
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!