  
Europa Oil & Gas (Holdings) plc 
 
4 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear shareholders, 
The year under review has served to highlight the significant benefits of being an oil and gas company 
focused on Europe with a multistage portfolio of licences, including both production in the UK as well as 
highly prospective exploration in France and the Irish Atlantic Margin.  While adverse macroeconomic 
conditions have prevailed for much of the last twelve months impacting business activity across a wide 
range of sectors, Europa's UK producing assets have had an excellent year, averaging 200 boepd, an 18% 
increase on last year's 169 boepd.  Together with a 10.5% increase in the average oil price achieved over 
the course of the year, our full year revenues show a 34% increase to  5.1 million.     
The wider financial conditions notwithstanding, the  5.1 million in revenues has allowed us to progress 
what we hope will become our future producing assets further along the development curve. In the UK, 
we funded our share of costs for acquisition and processing of 49 km
2
 of 3D seismic survey over our 33% 
owned PEDL180 and PEDL182 licences.  We rate the Wressle and Broughton prospects on the licences 
as both having a one in three chance of making a commercial discovery which would lead to a material 
increase in our production. The licences are operated by Egdon Resources and a well is expected to be 
drilled on one of the two prospects in the first quarter of 2013.  Thanks to the strong performance of our 
UK production, Europa is fully funded to cover its share of drilling costs. 
Progress has also been made on our French licences. Earlier in the year, re-evaluation of existing seismic 
and well data resulted in our in-house technical team identifying a previously unrecognised shallow gas 
play on the already highly prospective B arn des Gaves Permit in South West France that lies adjacent to 
the giant gas fields of Lacq and Meillon.  This is a significant development for the Company with positive 
implications for the on-going farm out process for this 100% owned Permit.   
The prospectivity of the deep gas play in the B arn des Gaves Permit (Berenx Deep) has been known for 
decades following the drilling of wells in the 1960s and 1970s combined with the existence of historic 
seismic data. However, at 5,500 metres below the surface, the cost of one well is estimated at  40-50 
million which has effectively limited the number of potential partners, an issue exacerbated by the 
challenging economic climate. By contrast, the cost of drilling the newly identified shallow prospect is 
considerably lower at  4-5 million and therefore affordable to a much larger pool of oil and gas 
companies. As a result, our strategy regarding Berenx has changed so that we are now looking to drill and 
prove up the shallow prospect first, which we estimate holds up to 59 bcf of gas, before addressing the 
deeper prospectivity. With this strategy in mind, we are in active discussions with regards to farming out 
Berenx, both shallow and deep.   
In October 2011, Europa was awarded two exploration Licensing Options in the Irish Atlantic Margin.  
The waters around Ireland have been generating much excitement recently following drilling success in 
the Celtic Sea and upcoming wells offshore West of Ireland. Since acquiring the acreage, our technical 
team has been busy mapping the two four-block parcels located in the Porcupine Basin which cover an 
area totalling 2,000 km
2
. This work has resulted in the identification of two potentially large prospects in 
Key Highlights 
  Production & revenue growth 
  Wressle has potential to transform Europa 
  Completed and published CPR 
  Strengthened technical team 
 
We are now well placed to progress 
our assets further along the 
development curve. 
   
Europa Oil & Gas (Holdings) plc 
 
5 
 
the Lower Cretaceous clastic play. Further work is required to mature these prospects to drillable status, 
however, we are very encouraged by our findings to date. As with our French permits, we are actively 
seeking to secure a farm-in partner.   
During the year, we published the findings of a Competent Person's Report ( CPR') drafted by ERC 
Equipoise Limited ( ERC'), which provides an independent assessment of Europa's UK and French 
assets.  This was the first time a third party has reviewed the exploration assets and the results are highly 
encouraging.  ERC estimated our core recoverable reserves and potential resources at 48.2 mmboe. While 
we believe this figure to be on the conservative side, we are happy to accept this as a solid base from 
which we are confident we can build on as we progress our UK and French prospects along the 
development curve.   
During the period, Hugh Mackay took over as Chief Executive Officer.  Hugh is a geologist by profession 
with over 30 years' experience having held senior posts at BP, Enterprise Oil, The Peak Group, AGR 
Petroleum and Avannaa Resources. Hugh is responsible for putting together the technical team on whose 
excellent work I have already commented.   
In addition to our exploration licences, the team has been working hard on our UK producing assets with 
the remit to increase production and where possible extend the life of the fields by implementing a series 
of initiatives aimed at improving operational efficiency and recovery rates.  While it is too early to gauge 
the long term effects, the results of the work by our operational team on the ground can nevertheless be 
seen in the 19% increase in year on year oil volumes. We are pleased to have delivered on our forecast 
production for the year of 200 boepd. 
Hugh has also spearheaded an in depth review of our entire asset base, a process that culminated in the 
commissioning of the CPR. Thanks to the review and CPR, our understanding of the potential of our 
licences and, by definition, the Company as a whole, has increased considerably. At the very least, the 
CPR serves as a benchmark in our on-going discussions with potential partners, particularly with regards 
to Berenx. 
Outlook  
Having an asset base at various stages of development is highly beneficial to the Company.  As a result of 
our existing production, our exploration activity in the next twelve months is not wholly dependent on 
our securing a farm-out deal. As mentioned earlier, we are fully funded to drill a well on PEDL180 or 
PEDL182 in the UK. In addition, our three producing fields in the East Midlands have been assigned 
mean recoverable reserves of 0.65 mmbo by ERC. We believe there is scope to build on this but as it 
stands this third party estimate is nevertheless a valuable asset. Meanwhile, ERC have estimated Berenx 
Deep has a net mean contingent resource of 277 bcf.  Combined, our UK and French assets provide 
tremendous asset backing to a Company of our size, which underpins our valuation. 
The actions taken over the course of the year under review have strengthened my own and the Board's 
belief in the potential of Europa's asset base and our ability to create substantial value for all shareholders.  
We recognise it is our task to realise this potential.  Drilling is key to the long term development of all oil 
and gas companies no matter what size they are and, with this in mind, the prospect of commencing 
drilling in the East Midlands in early 2013 is very much welcome. Subject to the results of this well, we, 
along with our partners, will consider drilling a follow up.  In the meantime, we continue to work hard to 
move all our licences forward and remain on the look out to add additional projects to our portfolio that 
meet our investment criteria.  Updates on our progress will be provided as and when it is appropriate to 
do so.   
Finally, I would like to thank the management team, directors and advisers for their hard work during the 
year and also to our shareholders for their support over the last twelve months.  
 
WH Adamson 
Chairman   
Europa Oil & Gas (Holdings) plc 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Our strategy 
Europa's objective is to become listed in the top quartile on AIM within 5 years. The threshold for 
this quartile is a market capitalisation greater than  100 million. 
To achieve this objective Europa will drill up its existing exploration and appraisal portfolio in the 
UK, France and Ireland. Some of this activity will be funded from cashflow; others by farm-out.  
New ventures will be added to the portfolio. This will be a combination of ground floor licence 
application and, where appropriate, by farm-in. Strategic partnerships will be considered as a means 
of accelerating portfolio growth, drill up activity and achieving the objective. 
Europa's areas of interest are Europe, the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic margin. Access to good 
prospectivity preferably on ground floor terms is key and opportunities outside the AOI will be 
considered. 
 