 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
 
 European Nickel PLC 1 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Dear Shareholder,
This past year has been extremely 
challenging for many businesses as 
the global credit crisis took effect and 
European Nickel was no exception. 
Despite an encouraging start to the 
2009 calendar year with the receipt of 
the long awaited forestry permit and 
the signing of a Financing Framework 
Agreement for the  aldag     project, 
the year has been overshadowed by 
the delays we have experienced in 
the consumation of this investment 
and project finance package with our 
Chinese counterparties. Consequently 
this has severely strained our position. 
However, we have survived the year 
and emerged into 2010 with the 
announcement of a merger with 
Rusina Mining NL (Rusina) and an 
associated share placement to raise 
US$19.4 million. This will strengthen 
our balance sheet and management 
team, enabling us to continue 
progressing our two development 
projects,  aldag     and Acoje, 
towards construction and, ultimately, 
production.
At the time we announced the 
Financing Framework Agreement, 
there were three main conditions 
precedent which required completion; 
obtaining the forestry permit, 
terminating the  aldag     offtake 
agreement with BHP Billiton and the 
subsequent signing of an offtake 
agreement for the full  aldag     offtake 
with Jiangxi Rare Earth and Rare 
Metals Tungsten Group Corporation 
Limited (JXTC) and obtaining Chinese 
government and regulatory approvals 
for JXTC to hold equity in an 
offshore entity (namely Sardes Nikel 
Madencilik, the Turkish project holder). 
European Nickel has delivered on the 
two conditions that it was responsible 
for. We are now waiting for JXTC and 
the Chinese export credit agency to 
complete their approvals processes, 
which despite continuous assurances 
that the process is advancing, to date 
remain uncompleted.
In light of the prolonged period it 
has taken to obtain finance from our 
Chinese partners, we decided last 
year to appoint Endeavour Financial 
Corporation as our debt advisers. With 
their support, whilst still advancing the 
Chinese financing, we have recently 
started investigating the appetite of 
the Western debt markets to provide 
the required finance. We have been 
encouraged by the dialogue to date 
and the banks' interest underlines 
the commercial attractiveness of 
the  aldag     project. This alternative 
avenue of project financing is of 
particular interest since the termination 
agreement with BHP Billiton for the 
offtake agreement, as well as the 
Financing Framework Agreement 
both expire at the end of March 2010. 
Although both agreements may be 
extended, their expiry introduces 
an interesting opportunity to seek 
alternative finance. On expiry of the 
BHP Billiton termination agreement, 
JXTC will lose the right to the  aldag     
offtake and it will revert back to BHP 
Billiton.
As a result of these delays, we 
have continued to conserve our 
cash resources during the year, 
which, unfortunately, has meant we 
have severely restricted ongoing 
expenditures in all aspects of our 
business, including a reduction of 
staffing to care and maintenance 
levels at  aldag    . We also put most 
of our research and business 
development on hold as well as 
reduced management costs and 
corporate overheads to the maximum 
extent compatible with retaining the 
capability to resume development 
of  aldag     as soon as financing 
arrangements are in place.
However, we did ensure we have 
continued to meet our minimum 
expenditure requirements for the 
Acoje joint venture with Rusina. 
This has enabled us to continue 
to progress the project towards a 
Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS), 
which is due for completion during 
2011. At the time of writing, we have 
just announced our intention to merge 
with Rusina through a Scheme of 
Arrangement, which is discussed in 
more detail below. We view Acoje as 
our next development project after 
 aldag    . The project is proceeding 
very satisfactorily and the test heaps 
and pilot plant have been constructed 
on site although delays have been 
encountered as a result of adverse 
weather, with the wet season being 
particularly heavy this year. 2 European Nickel PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
The consequence of the delays 
encountered in completing the 
financing arrangements for the  aldag     
project, the payment of a substantial 
fee for the issuance of the forestry 
permit and ongoing expenses for the 
development of the Acoje project have 
required us to raise additional funds. 
This was done by way of a private 
placement in April 2009 to raise US$6 
millon and through a bridging loan 
with Endeavour Finance in July 2009 
to raise US$4.0 million, subsequently 
increased to US$5.0 million in 
December 2009. We were also 
obliged to dispose of a portion of our 
holding in T oledo Mining Corporation 
Plc (T oledo) in January 2010 to raise 
a further US$950,000, which has 
reduced our holding in T oledo to 
7.7% and our beneficial interest in 
Berong Nickel Corporation (BNC) (the 
underlying development project) to 
23.0%.
The pre-tax loss for the year was 39% 
less than last year at US$14.4 million 
reflecting the significant reduction 
in spending during the year. The 
Company cut costs across the Group 
with total staff numbers being reduced 
by 58% to 72 by the end of the year. 
Most of the staff cuts were in Turkey 
where direct ore shipping had ceased 
in early 2008 and the Company's 
demonstration plant was put on care 
and maintenance. Consequently there 
was no revenue generated during the 
year compared with revenue last year 
of US$5.6 million.
In line with our strategy to obtain 
equity interests in attractive heap 
leach treatable nickel laterite resoures, 
to eliminate the expenditure premium 
consequent in the current joint venture 
and to strengthen the management 
of our developing interests in the 
Philippines, we have announced an 
agreement to merge with Rusina 
under the terms of an Australian 
Scheme of Arrangement.
The Boards of both companies 
believe the merger rationale is logical 
and compelling as it consolidates the 
Acoje project into a simpler structure, 
increases European Nickel's interest 
in the project to 92%, thereby enabling 
the orderly development of the 
project after  aldag     and strengthens 
the management team with the 
appointment of Robert Gregory as 
European Nickel's Managing Director. 
Robert Gregory has operated in South 
East Asia for a number of years and 
he will report to Simon Purkiss who will 
become Executive Deputy Chairman. 
The Rusina board has recommended 
the merger to its shareholders.
This Scheme is subject to the 
approval by the Australian courts, 
by Rusina's shareholders and to 
the agreement of European Nickel's 
shareholders for the issuance of 
new shares required to complete the 
merger. If the merger is approved 
and completed, Rusina shareholders 
will subsequently hold approximately 
27% of the enlarged European Nickel 
business.
In conjunction with the merger 
agreement, we have also completed 
a private placement of shares to raise 
US$19.4 million in two tranches. The 
first tranche of US$8.6 million was 
placed on 2 February 2010 and part of 
the proceeds were used to repay the 
Endeavour bridging loan. The second 
tranche of US$10.8 million will be 
received on completion of the merger 
with Rusina. With this additional 
funding and Rusina's current treasury, 
the Company will be in a position to 
progress the DFS at Acoje and to 
complete the project finance for the 
construction of the  aldag     project.
Turning to the nickel market, it has 
undergone some interesting changes 
over the past couple of years. The 
spike in the nickel price in 2007 to 
over US$20 per pound prompted a 
new source of nickel to be developed 
with the Chinese utilising numerous 
small blast furnaces and ferronickel 
smelters to produce a brand new 
product, nickel pig iron or low grade 
ferronickel. This new product and 
the significant quantities needed 
prompted nickel laterite deposit 
holders to open up their deposits 
and Direct Ore Shipment (DOS) 
operations were started all over South 
East Asia. This, coupled with Chinese 
traders purchasing ore at any grade, 
prompted a boom to bust cycle in the 
DOS market when nickel prices fell 
below the US$10 per pound required 
by some of the high cost producers. 
These new nickel units have had 
the effect of capping the nickel 
Acoje trial heap leach site  European Nickel PLC 3 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
price upside for any length of time 
at US$10-12 per pound. Whilst the 
nickel price did drop to approximately 
US$6 per pound, it recovered to an 
average range of US$7-8 per pound 
for the year. Looking ahead to the rest 
of 2010, industry consensus is that 
nickel demand will strengthen over the 
previous year and that the price will 
range around US$8 per pound.
After an extremely difficult period 
over the past twelve months, I believe 
European Nickel is now positioned to 
move forward again, to resume our 
endeavours to develop  aldag     into 
a high quality and profitable heap 
leach operation and to successfully 
complete the DFS at Acoje, leading 
on to its development. After the 
merger with Rusina, we will have a 
strengthened management team and 
the financial resources to achieve this.
Once again I want to convey my 
sincere appreciation of the efforts of 
all of our employees, the forebearance 
of our partners and the support of our 
shareholders under the very difficult 
circumstances that the Company 
has had to endure since my last 
report to shareholders. I believe we 
are now well positioned to move 
forward successfully to achieve our 
main strategic goals, to create value 
for our shareholders and to become 
a growing and profitable nickel 
producer.
Thank you all,
 
 
David Whitehead 
Chairman