 Results summary
After two years of very strong growth, market conditions
during the year ended March 2003 and more particularly
during the second half, have proved difficult for Expro.
Against a background of high commodity prices there has
been a reluctance by our clients to expand their Exploration
and Production programmes, preferring to maximise cash flow
from existing operations. Prices have been driven by security
of supply issues rather than demand, which has remained
static through a period of uncertainty surrounding the global
economic and political outlook. Despite this challenging
environment, turnover for the year held up relatively well,
falling a modest 5% to  209m for the group and share of
joint ventures.
Pre-tax profits, excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, at  20.0m was 19% below prior year, with
EPS on the same basis at 22.1p, down 18%, with EBITDA
before exceptional items only 6% below the previous year's
level at  43.4m.
Our financial condition continued to improve, as we repaid
debt, reducing gearing in the period from 106% to 43%, 
with net debt at the year end of  42.4m. The significant
improvement to the group's net debt position through 
strong operational cash flow was further enhanced by the
receipt from Baker Hughes Inc. of $30m, on the creation 
of the QuantX joint venture. QuantX has been formed to
become the leading provider of permanent in-well data
acquisition systems, utilising Expro's established reputation 
in this market combined with Baker Hughes' mechanical
intelligent well completions technology and enhanced sales
and distribution capability.
A number of factors contributed to the shortfall in meeting our
expectations of improving our performance over the previous
year. Sharp declines in oilfield activity in the Gulf of Mexico
were partially offset by strong performances in Africa, the
Former Soviet Union and Middle East. In Asia Pacific, activity
slowed following completion of the Malampaya project in 
the early part of the year, whilst in Europe business was
maintained at last year's levels despite the reduction in client
capital spending in this area. Delays and deferrals to client
projects from the second half into the following year also
contributed to the general weakness.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.1p per
ordinary share, bringing the total dividend for the year to
10.9p vs 10.8p last year.
Overview
During the year, Expro continued to evolve its core strategies
focused on service provision in the development and
production phase of an oilfield's life. This is being achieved
through a combination of exploiting our global footprint,
specialist technologies and know-how in our three closely
related businesses.
Cased Hole Services, specialises in well maintenance and
production optimisation. Cased Hole spending is determined
by client operating expenditure, maintaining and enhancing
production and counteracting the effect of the naturally
occurring fall in productivity of existing wells. In the US market,
where much of our work relates to short life gas wells our
services are more geared to client development capital
spending creating new wells.
We are looking to increased levels of business in the UK and
our overseas markets, including some modest recovery in the
Gulf of Mexico, as the shelf water activity begins to recover on
the back of increased land activity, in response to higher gas
prices in the US. Increasing penetration in overseas markets
is anticipated as additional cased hole portfolio services are
introduced into these locations.
New product development is being increased; a recent
innovation jointly developed with Marathon, BJ Services 
and Expro is the new EXcape  perforating technology 
which is finding increasing acceptance in North America 
as a means of reducing costs and enhancing reservoir
performance.
3
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement Annual Report
and Accounts
2003
Our Subsurface Systems business spans three critical
areas: subsea safety systems; Tronic seabed power and
instrumentation connectors; and permanently installed data
monitoring systems. The primary driver in the subsurface 
area is client capital spending on subsea field developments,
in the deepwater.
Subsurface spending in Europe, particularly that in the UK
has, as anticipated, been in rapid decline in the last twelve
months as operators have increasingly focused their capital
spending in the deep and ultra deepwater markets of Africa,
Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. In addressing this progressive
geographic re-alignment Expro has made a number of
strategic initiatives.
The injection of Expro's permanent monitoring business into
the QuantX joint venture will enable it to become a leader 
in advancing permanent in-well monitoring technology.
Integrating Expro's capabilities to measure real-time reservoir
performance with Baker Hughes' intelligent well completions
and other technologies will enable us to enhance client 
project economics, particularly in the deepwater.
Tronic continues to hold a market leading position that will
be reinforced by our build up of capability in the highly
influential domestic US market. We will also be introducing
our fibre-optic connector and high voltage seabed power
connectors in the coming year to address the market needs
to operate in deeper waters with long step-outs from host
facilities.
During the year we have added to our subsea safety system
capabilities to operate in ultra deepwater. Working with Statoil,
Aker Kvaerner and bp we are developing an enhanced open
water assembly for high pressure and high temperature
applications for delivery to the field later this year.
Drawing on our capabilities in Cased Hole Services, together
with our subsea systems know-how, is allowing Expro to
progress a new concept for deepwater well maintenance with
major clients. This initial move is positioning Expro at the
forefront of an emerging market, allowing step-change
performance in subsea field economics.
Our Surface and Environmental Systems business is
positioned to provide the upstream industry with safe, fast and
cost effective surface based hydrocarbon processing systems.
Expro provides engineered facilities capable of processing,
measuring and, as necessary, disposing of all produced 
well effluent, including gas, oil, water and associated
contaminates. This has to be done to the most exacting
standards of safety and environmental performance.
We have developed a strategic niche allowing us to provide
clients with temporary, semi-permanent and life of field
process solutions, spanning all phases of the oil field cycle,
primarily focused on development and production
expenditures.
Throughout the year we have continued to establish our
reputation as an international provider, particularly in the
deepwater and in relation to small field developments.
Of significance, this year has seen a full year's operation 
of the Soroosh field production facility in the Persian
Gulf for Shell and next year will see the commencement
of operations for Tuscan on the Ardmore field in the
North Sea.
Board appointment
We welcome to the Board Terry Lazenby, who was appointed
non-executive director on 3rd June 2003. Terry brings to the
Board a wealth of expertise following a distinguished career
with bp.
Sir John Chisholm will be standing down from the Board at
the AGM after nearly nine years of service as non-executive
director and we thank Sir John for his valuable contribution to
the Company and the part he has played in the development
of the business.
Outlook
The key to Expro's future success is the continued evolution 
of its technology and utilisation of its international footprint,
delivered both organically and through acquisitions, focused
on development and production phase activities, closely
associated with our three related business streams.
4
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement (continued) In the near term the market outlook for oil and gas demand 
is linked to the pace of global economic recovery and in the
coming year is expected to be modest. Projects postponed
from the second half of last year are commencing as expected.
At present the overall market continues to lack momentum,
although recent indicators suggest a progressive improvement
in activity levels during the course of the coming year.
The long-term fundamentals for oil and gas are very positive,
a recent International Energy Agency study for oil and gas
production, forecast an increase of 25% in demand by the 
end of the decade. This requires massive investment by the
operators in order to add to capacity, whilst at the same time
overcoming the declining productivity from existing sources 
of production. Against this backdrop we believe Expro is well
positioned to continue to show long-term through cycle growth.
Dr Chris Fay, CBE John Dawson
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
5
Corporate montage