 Feedback plc
Chairman's & Chief Executive's Statement
2
The past few years have been very challenging for the Group. We have had to adapt to changing market conditions in all the
subsidiary businesses whilst addressing legacy issues such as the pension deficit and operating in unsuitable buildings in
Crowborough. We are well advanced in finding permanent solutions to all these difficulties and, although most of the
considerable associated costs have been borne during the period ending 31 May 2007, the benefits will become apparent over
the coming years. As part of the restructuring process the financial year end was extended from 31 March to 31 May.
The attached accounts for the 14 month period to 31 May 2007 show an operating profit of  325,600 on a turnover of  9,639,400
compared to  159,500 and  7,638,600 respectively for the 12 months to 31 March 2006. This continues the trend of improving
profits at a trading level in recent years.
Exceptional costs associated with the solution to the pension situation, which occurred after the end of this financial period,
dilapidations on leased buildings which had been vacated and restructuring amounted to  763,900 (2006 -  nil) and costs
associated with the pension fund, which was ongoing during the period, interest and accrued dividends on the now fully
converted Preference Shares totalled  391,200 (2006 -  454,800). The loss before tax was  521,900 (2006 -  295,300).
As previously reported the main freehold premises in Park Road, Crowborough had been sold subject to residential planning
permission being granted for the site. Three applications were rejected by the local authorities but, after going to appeal,
permission was granted for the development of the site in early February 2007. Alternative premises are being investigated
with a view to relocating the whole UK company.
All the fundamental difficulties the Group has experienced have been, or are being addressed. This together with the improving
trading performance and reduced costs across the Group allow us to be more confident about the future than we have been
for some time.
Feedback Instruments Limited
There was another strong performance during the year from the largest of the subsidiary companies. The strategic initiatives
that have been referred to in previous Statements; the introduction of new products, improved communications with agents
and reductions in costs are continuing to deliver results and helped to increase turnover.
The overall export performance was significantly ahead of the previous year. In particular there were continued strong sales
in the Middle East and Far East and a number of our international agents showed an improved commitment and produced strong
growth. Some agency arrangements were changed in territories where it was felt performance should improve.
Funding within the Higher Education sector in the UK has been weak for a number of years but the UK sales team, under their
new manager, is producing very encouraging results in this challenging market. Of particular note is the success being
achieved with the distributed line of science apparatus for schools which is showing significant growth reflecting both the effort
being made and the relatively strong funding in this market sector.
In anticipation of the move to new premises two of the leased sites in Crowborough were vacated and all personnel were
relocated to Park Road. The temporary loss of some of our metalworking capability, together with the improved level of orders,
necessitated the use of more subcontracting. Output has been therefore somewhat restricted for a time.
In recent years the company has suffered from a lack of new products but a number of items of equipment have been introduced
recently as part of the ongoing development strategy. Of particular note is a new range of Control teaching systems which
addresses the market sector in which Feedback started and in which it established its reputation for quality and reliability. These
new products have been well received and will help the company restore its dominant position in this market.
Feedback Data Limited
Feedback Data produces terminals for collecting data to improve efficiency and security in the workplace. Although it operates
in a very competitive market turnover was up on the previous year. It was also encouraging to monitor the improving sales of
some of the newer products which had taken longer to gain market acceptance than had been anticipated.
Strategic partnerships with new and established Value Added Resellers were renegotiated which has resulted in stronger sales
and less dependence on too few channels to market. More emphasis has been put on obtaining end-user sales and a number
of niche markets were identified which are being investigated and are already producing results.
A significant proportion of the company's revenue is derived from field support of installed products. Turnover in this area has
been maintained over recent years and ways to increase efficiency and service are being considered.
A new data terminal, the TR1000 was developed to address the mid-range market and to eventually replace the Kestrel and
the new platform for the access control market, Evolution, continues to be expanded.
Feedback Incorporated
After the disappointing performance in the preceding year the company returned to profitability. The continuing weakness of
the Dollar is however putting pressure on margins and funding in the educational sector in the USA can be uncertain.
The extra field sales personnel have started to contribute and the new products, introduced over the previous 12 months, have
been well received by the market. To maintain this momentum a new marketing campaign has been initiated to complement
the direct sales effort.
The recent launch of the new range of Control experiments at the American Control Conference in New York went very well.
This is a market segment that Feedback had dominated in North America and it is hoped that, with the introduction of these
new products, this position can be re-established. Annual Report and Accounts 2 0 0 7 3
Post Balance Sheet Events
Of most significance is the solution to the deficit in the defined benefit Feedback Pension Scheme. This scheme was closed
during 2004 but due the size of the deficit, relative to Group turnover and profitability, the future viability of the Group was
seriously compromised. At the same time as the scheme was closed an agreement was reached with Opra (Occupational
Pensions Regulatory Authority) to address the deficit over 15 years.
With the change in funding requirements brought in by The Pensions Regulator, which succeeded Opra, and the adoption of
FRS17 a different, permanent solution was required.
After lengthy and complex negotiations with the Trustees of the scheme, The Pensions Regulator and the Pension Protection
Fund (PPF) an agreement was reached whereby responsibility for the deficit was assumed by the PPF in return for certain
conditions being met. A formal Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA) was announced under which all  creditors other than
the PPF were to be paid in full. The Group would pay the PPF  1,200,000 ( 700,000 from the proceeds of a  1,400,000 placing
and  500,000 after vacation of the Park Road premises) plus provide shares totalling 18% of the enlarged share capital after
restructuring. The CVA and restructuring was agreed at meetings of shareholders and creditors held on 2 July 2007.
The company will be formally released from the CVA once the final  500,000 is paid to the Trustees.
The following proforma Balance Sheet is for illustrative purposes only. If the changes to the pension scheme and the
completion of the sale of the Park Road premises had taken place on 31 May 2007 the table shows how the Balance Sheet
would have changed (the proforma Balance Sheet is unaudited and is not a statutory Balance Sheet under S.240 of the
Companies Act).
Actual Proforma
31 May 2007 31 May 2007
 000  000
(audited) (unaudited)
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 59.9 59.9
Current assets
Stocks 1,179.5 1,179.5
Debtors 2,630.9 1,725.9
Cash at bank and in hand 486.4 1,387.9
4,296.8 4,293.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within 1 year
Borrowings ( 414.8 ) ( 414.8 )
Other creditors ( 2,117.8 ) ( 2,067.7 )
( 2,532.6 ) ( 2,482.5 )
Net current assets 1,764.2 1,810.8
Total assets less current liabilities 1,824.1 1,870.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after 1 year
Borrowings ( 505.5 ) -
Net assets excluding pension liability 1,318.6 1,870.7
Pension liability ( 7,974.4 ) -
Net (liabilities)/assets including pension liability ( 6,655.8 ) 1,870.7
Finding the solution to this problem has been extremely time consuming and has caused a significant diversion
of management attention. We would like to thank all the advisors who have worked tirelessly on our behalf.
For further information please see Note 27 to the accounts.
Current Trading & Future Prospects
The inflow of orders is satisfactory and the Order Book is healthy. However, production bottlenecks, arising from the
consolidation of all the UK companies' operations onto one site at Park Road, ahead of moving to new premises, have
resulted in some delays in the dispatch of sales. These problems are being actively addressed.  This has been a year of
tremendous achievement and the Board looks forward to the future with renewed confidence.
David Harding David Sawyer
Chairman Chief Executive
26 September 2007