 FEEDBACK PLC 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2012 
 3 
Dear fellow shareholders 
2012 was a difficult year for everyone at Feedback plc 
(Feedback) as tough market conditions further exposed the 
Group's long-term weaknesses. 
The structure and costs of Feedback were those of a larger 
Group. Without sustained growth reversing the more than 
40% decline in revenues over the past few years, the 
business was not sustainable. 
The Group's strategy, since my appointment, had been for 
a sales led turnaround whilst investing in new products and 
pushing through measures to improve operational 
effectiveness, all the time working within the harsh 
constraints of the Group's working capital requirements.  
RESULTS 
The financial year started well. Half-year results showed 
what looked like clear indications of a recovery. Turnover to 
November 2011 was up 13% with the Group running at 
breakeven on a like-for-like basis. The multi-year 
implementation of an expensive new ERP system was 
finally completed and immediately delivered on its long-
anticipated promise of enabling faster order-to-ship times 
and real-time management of inventory. Two loss-making 
product ranges were eliminated, the operational structure 
was simplified somewhat to reduce cost, and we started 
Feedback Black Box (Black Box) as a new product 
incubator with a promising first customer.  
The cost of restructuring the Group, of following through on 
a number of long-term investment decisions, the impact of 
margins being squeezed from customers and suppliers, and 
the simple demands of growth, all created an increased 
need for working capital that was forecast to be on-going. 
Funds were raised from new and existing shareholders, 
including every member of the Board, in October 2011.  
Despite the encouraging start, results for the full year, 
including for Feedback Instruments Limited and Feedback 
Inc (Feedback Instruments) up to its disposal on 23 May 
2012 and allowing for the effects of its sale, are extremely 
disappointing. 
Turnover of  7.0 million was up 11.7% from  6.3 million in 
the previous year. Reported loss on all activities was  
 1.8 million (2011: loss of  831,000) reflecting operating 
losses of  414,000 (2011: loss of  831,000), loss of 
 802,000 (2011: nil) on the sale of Feedback Instruments, 
 293,000 (2011: nil) write-off of intercompany debt, and an 
impairment of  274,000 (2011: nil) relating to property. The 
loss after taxation was  1.82 million (2011:  862,000). 
Revenue for Feedback Instruments up to the date of its 
disposal grew 8% to  4.9 million, up from  4.5 million in 
2011, despite extremely low order volumes for most of the 
second half of the year. This growth was well below 
management's expectations with export sales particularly 
disappointing. Feedback Instruments had an operating 
profit of  311,000 (2011:  466,000 loss) due in part to the 
write-back of  260,000 (2011: nil) legacy stock provisions. 
The financial challenge facing Feedback Instruments that 
led to its disposal was funding the working capital demands 
of the long lead-time between receipt of order and receipt of 
payment and the overhead needed to maintain the 
minimum level workforce during the months of lean trading. 
 
 
For Feedback Data, revenues of  1.9 million represent a 
12% growth on the  1.7 million performance in 2011. 
However, losses worsened to  294,000 (2011:  23,000) 
largely due to the cost of restructuring the sales team and 
the increased investment necessary to finish two product 
development projects started in prior years. 
The increases in revenue in both operating companies 
occurred in the first half of the year.  
As we moved into the second half of the year, all parts of 
the Group suffered poor levels of sales. Feedback 
Instruments in particular experienced several consecutive 
months of extremely weak order intake that fell well below 
management's even short-term forecasts. 
The engine of the Group had long been Feedback 
Instruments' export sales. When these dried to a trickle, 
predominantly due to the lack of product investment in prior 
years, the prospect of a sales led recovery evaporated and 
the Board then determined that to turnaround the entire 
Group would be impossible. 
After a thorough review in early 2012 the Board concluded 
that given its cash burn, its weakness in terms of the age of 
its existing products, and the length of time needed for any 
new products to be developed and marketed effectively in 
the education sector, returning Feedback Instruments to 
positive cash flow and profitability would take more time  
and cash resources than the Group possessed or had  
access to.  
Accordingly, and with a heavy heart given its position as the 
foundation stone of the Group in 1958 and the presence still 
on the Board of one of the founders, the decision was taken 
to dispose of Feedback's education business. In a difficult 
and, due to the lack of viable offers received, in the end 
distressed transaction, Feedback Instruments was sold to a 
subsidiary of LD Didactic GmbH for a nominal consideration 
in respect of the shares and a repayment of  260,000 of the 
Group's indebtedness. 
Losses in Feedback Data (Data) also increased in the year 
under review; the result of its own ageing product range, 
postponed projects, and further restructuring costs.  
The Group undertook a series of actions to preserve and 
maximise value for shareholders. Data was restructured to 
reduce headcount; hardware development, production and 
certain customer support functions were outsourced. The 
Board has determined that the Group's headquarters in 
Crowborough, which long-standing shareholders will 
remember was sold in 2007 and bought back in 2008, is 
now surplus to requirements and is in the process of  
being sold. 
Notwithstanding the challenges of the current economic 
environment, shareholders should be aware that the single 
factor most responsible for the decline in the Group's long-
term performance is the lack of priority given, over many 
years, to new product development.  
In the education sector, product development is generally 
accepted to be a long-term strategy. The Group's education 
customers are reluctant to consider new products until they 
are available on the market, and the sales cycle is upwards 
of two years due to the necessary time required to  
  FEEDBACK PLC 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2012 
 4 
incorporate new equipment into curricular activities. 
However, even in this context, Feedback Instruments 
generating approximately 90% of revenues from products 
developed more than 10 years ago shows a clear picture of 
a company resting too long on past glories. 
The pace of product development in the Group has been,  
in the eyes of our customers and when compared with  
our competitors, extremely disappointing. Feedback's 
development teams, working with the evolving demands of 
the market place and rapidly changing technologies, were 
left behind by the quicker cycle times of larger and faster 
manufacturers who have bigger development budgets.  
None of this is to say that Feedback products are not 
excellent pieces of engineering. They are. Indeed, the 
Company has built a strong reputation for designing and 
building robust products that continue to provide value even 
after many years in the field. 
Developing new products is always a risk-based activity. 
However, for too many years the operating companies 
failed to make enough wise choices - leaving decisions in 
the hands of engineers, and not listening to end users or 
feeling the pulse of the market - which left customers 
looking elsewhere for the innovation that would drive their  
own growth. 
Given the time needed to develop new products for our 
established markets, Feedback Black Box Company 
(Black Box) was an attempt to leverage Feedback's 
engineering reputation and inject urgency and revenue into 
the Group with a completely outsourced business model. 
But with start-up revenues of only  186,000 (2011: nil) and 
losses of  128,000 (2011: nil), despite much promise, Black 
Box was closed as part of the cost cutting programme 
immediately after the sale of Feedback Instruments.  
PEOPLE 
In October 2011, David Marks left the Company after giving 
over 30 years service in all parts of the business. He joined 
the main Board in 2009 after spending time as Managing 
Director of Feedback Instruments Limited, and more latterly 
held the role of Group Operations Director.  
We have recently also seen the departure, on health 
grounds, of David Barton. David worked tirelessly for the 
Company from his appointment as a non-executive director 
in 2007 until his withdrawal in October 2012. 
I would like to thank the two Davids and all my other 
colleagues across the Group's operations for their 
commitment and hard work during what continues to be an 
extremely difficult year.  
OUTLOOK  
After 54 years in operation, 2012 has been Feedback's 
annus horribilis and this has forced a complete re-
evaluation of the business. 
With the distressed sale of Feedback Instruments, 
Feedback is left with annual revenues of approximately  
 2 million. These revenues are predominantly derived from 
low-growth products which are sold into a competitive 
market. The cost base of the remaining business is difficult 
to bare and the potential for organic growth is limited. The 
Group's continued poor performance has resulted in it 
relying on its banking and other loan facilities and has 
meant a significant amount of management time has been 
focused on cash management. 
In such a challenging environment the Board continue to 
consider all viable strategic opportunities to maximise value 
for shareholders, including the potential disposal of the 
remaining operating businesses.  
In the meantime, the Group is seeking to minimise its cash 
burn from on-going operations. 
 
Nick Shepheard 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 