 6    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2008 was a year of solid recovery for 
Fiberweb, despite extreme volatility 
in raw material prices and the 
impact of the gathering recession 
in many markets during the period. 
Financially, Fiberweb saw a much-
needed and marked improvement 
in its performance in all respects 
during the year. The Company also 
continued restructuring, improving 
its competitiveness and increasing 
productivity. Finally, a number of 
important new products and initiatives 
were developed and launched that will 
reinforce the Company's progress in  
the future. 
Financial Results
The financial results for 2008 overall 
are very encouraging. Continuing sales 
of  504.9 million, excluding  7.9 million 
of sales from Bidim which was divested 
during the year, decreased by  7.2 
million (1.4%) at constant currency, 
as unprofitable product lines were 
eliminated. Continuing underlying 
operating profit of  18.4 million, 
excluding  0.4 million of operating 
profit from Bidim, increased by  3.3 
million (22.0%) at constant currency. 
Net cash flow from operating activities 
increased strongly to  55.9 million 
(2007:  36.9 million) through improved 
margins and a significant and sustained 
reduction in working capital. Capital 
investment of  33.6 million (2007:  32.6 
million) was maintained at a high level 
to secure the right asset mix for the 
future. The return on invested capital of 
4.3% (2007: 2.9%), while substantially 
improved, remains significantly below 
Fiberweb's cost of capital and further 
improvement is a key objective for the 
years ahead. Debt of  149.9 million 
(2007:  137.6 million) has increased 
overall by  12.3 million as a result of 
the rapid devaluation of Sterling relative 
to the Euro and the US Dollar, which 
are the primary currencies of our debt 
and operations. On a constant currency 
basis, net debt has actually reduced 
year on year by  32.4 million, driven by 
the strong operating cash flow and the 
net proceeds from divestments.
Key Events
During the year, Fiberweb made 
significant progress in implementing 
the turnaround strategy laid out at the 
time of demerger. The portfolio was 
further simplified with the sale of the 
Company's minority stake in SGN in 
Saudi Arabia and the disposal of the 
Company's Brazilian business, Bidim, 
giving total net proceeds of  17.2 
million. The management structure 
of the Group was reorganised in May 
with the creation of two global business 
units to serve hygiene customers and 
three regional business units to serve 
differentiated industrial markets. 
Opportunities were taken during 
the year to strengthen the senior 
management team further, including 
the appointment of a new CFO, Daniel 
Abrams, in February 2008, and the 
appointment of new Presidents of the 
Consumer Fabrics business and the 
Americas and European Industrial 
businesses.  
The relative stability of the Hygiene 
business, comprising Airlaid and 
Consumer Fabrics, provided the Group 
with a degree of resilience during 
a period of almost unprecedented 
volatility. Volumes of these products, 
which are consumed overwhelmingly 
in the production of consumer staples 
such as baby diapers and sanitary 
towels, remained stable as production 
lines continued to be almost fully 
sold-out. There were particularly 
strong performances from the leading 
Swedish spunbond line, installed 
during 2007, in its first full year, and 
from the upgraded main airlaid line in 
China, both of which produced record 
output and productivity. Despite fairly 
stable demand, over-capacity in Europe 
for consumer fabrics emerged as a 
number of new investments came 
on-line and many products were down-
Chairman's Statement
FINANCIALLy, FIBERw EB SAw A MUCH-
NEEDED AND MARKED IMPROvEMENT 
IN ITS PERFORMANCE IN ALL RESPECTS 
DURINg THE yEAR. THE COMPANy ALSO 
CONTINUED RESTRUCTURINg, IMPROv INg 
ITS COMPETITIvENESS AND INCREASINg 
PRODUCTIvITy.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    7 
gauged. Thanks to recent investments 
by the Group, management was able 
to react firmly with the announcement 
in January 2009 of detailed plans to 
remove uncompetitive lines at Fiberweb 
sites in Sweden, Germany and France, 
coordinated with the commissioning 
of the new Italian spunbond line in 
mid-2009. 
Though the record-breaking surge 
and then collapse in oil prices during 
the year had the predictable see-
saw impact on polypropylene prices, 
which are so crucial to the Consumer 
Fabrics business, the Company's robust 
commercial arrangements allowed the 
vast majority of this impact to be passed 
on to customers, allowing overall margin 
expansion in this substantial business 
area.
The failure to secure a profitable future 
for the new airlaid line in Italy was a 
disappointment. Following technical 
difficulties, which resulted in higher 
operating costs than expected, it proved 
impossible to secure viable pricing and 
hence the decision was taken to close the 
facility. The second airlaid line in China 
was commissioned successfully during 
the year at the Company's site in Tianjin, 
China, and is now beginning to operate at 
specified levels, focused on the need for 
mid-tier products for local producers of 
feminine care products.
The Industrial business was impacted 
to a much greater extent than Hygiene 
by the turmoil in many markets during 
the year, especially those serving the 
construction industry. The precipitate 
decline in house-building in the USA 
continued and was followed by Western 
European markets. In these challenging 
circumstances the performance of the 
Company's Typar  housewrap products 
in both US and Canadian markets 
demonstrated strong resilience, with 
market share gains in both countries and 
volumes broadly maintained. Roofing 
products in Europe did not perform as 
strongly, but the Company's business in 
Eastern Europe continued to grow and 
is now the largest market geography for 
roofing membranes. Filtration products 
also had a strong year, demonstrating 
the resilience of a business largely based 
on replacement sales. New products for 
air filtration applications were developed 
for both European and North American 
markets. Productivity improvements were 
made in both the Americas and Europe 
Industrial businesses. In the UK, Terram 
continued the recovery apparent in 2007, 
with record output from its remaining 
production line in South Wales and 
progress in developing the sales of new 
products in rail and defence markets in 
particular.
The heavy restructuring undertaken in 
2006 and 2007 bore fruit during 2008 
and management implemented further 
cost reduction actions to improve the 
Company's competitiveness. Investments 
were made in new technologies and 
production assets to improve product 
performance and to reduce waste and 
energy consumption, and programmes 
were launched to improve the information 
systems infrastructure of the Company.
 
Dividends
Subject to approval by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
30 April 2009, the directors recommend 
a final dividend of 2.50 pence per share 
(2007: 2.50 pence). If approved, the 
dividend will be payable on 27 May 2009 
to shareholders on the register on 24 
April 2009.
The Board and Management
Other than the appointment of Daniel 
Abrams as CFO on 1 February 2008, 
the Board has remained unchanged 
during the year and has addressed 
the development of the Company with 
continued commitment. However, 
Peter Hickman, who has served as a 
non-executive director since 2006, has 
assumed new responsibilities which will 
prevent him continuing in his role at 
Fiberweb. I regret Peter's departure and 
thank him for his counsel over the past 
three years. Peter will retire at the end 
of the Annual General Meeting this year. 
With changes in executive management 
during the year, Fiberweb has renewed 
its strong executive team and added 
considerable experience in international 
manufacturing.
Prospects
Fiberweb is continuing to follow the 
strategy laid out at its launch as 
an independent company. An initial 
thorough restructuring to turn around 
the Company's performance and 
regain competitiveness and focus 
was necessary. At the same time, 
growth opportunities in more cyclical 
differentiated industrial businesses and 
in defensive hygiene businesses are both 
attractive.
The Board continues to believe that 
this strategy is the right one for the 
Company and it is pleased to report 
that the restructuring phase of the 
turnaround is well advanced. The 
continuing improvement in underlying 
operating margin and cash flow seen 
throughout 2008, in difficult markets, is 
strong evidence that Fiberweb is on the 
right track. The defensive nature of our 
Hygiene businesses and opportunities 
for further share gains in our Industrial 
businesses through product and channel 
innovation provide a strong platform for 
further progress. 
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
24 February 2009
Malcolm Coster