 6    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
FINANCIALLY, 
FIBERWEB 
SAW FURTHER 
PROGRESS DURING 
THE YEAR
2009 was another year of solid recovery 
for Fiberweb, despite steady increases 
in raw material prices from the low 
levels seen at the start of the year 
and the impact of severe recessions 
in many markets during the period.  
Financially, Fiberweb saw further 
progress during the year and brought 
the major restructuring programme 
begun at demerger in 2006 to a 
successful conclusion. The Company 
has improved its competitiveness and 
productivity through investment in 
leading technology as well as through 
cost reductions in many areas. The 
launch of an exciting joint venture in 
the Americas, FitesaFiberweb, has  
given Fiberweb access to growing 
hygiene markets in South America and 
allows investment in the USA without 
further straining our balance sheet.  
Finally, a number of important new 
products and initiatives were developed 
and launched that will reinforce the 
Company's progress in the future.  
Financial Results
The fi nancial results for 2009 overall 
are very encouraging in the context of 
the severe recessions in many of the 
Group's markets and the high degree of 
uncertainty prevailing for much of the 
year. Continuing sales of  454.2 million, 
decreased by  132.4 million (23%) at 
constant currency, impacted both by 
the effect of lower raw material costs 
on sales prices and market declines 
in almost all sectors in the fi rst half of 
the year, followed by a strong recovery 
in hygiene and some non-construction 
related markets during the second 
half. Continuing underlying operating 
profi t of  23.1 million increased by 23% 
(+4% at constant currency), which was 
impressive in a year when volumes 
declined by 10%, impacted by both 
restructuring and recession. 
Net cash fl ow from operating activities 
was strong for the second year at 
 50.6 million (2008:  55.9 million) 
as a result of improved margins and 
another signifi cant and sustained 
reduction in working capital. Capital 
investment of  27.0 million (2008:  33.6 
million) was maintained at a high level 
to secure the right asset mix for the 
future. The return on invested capital of 
7.5% (2008: 5.4%), while substantially 
improved, remains below Fiberweb's 
cost of capital and further improvement 
is a key objective for the years ahead. 
Net debt of  136.6 million (2008:  149.9 
million) has reduced overall by  13.3 
million as reported, while on a constant 
currency basis, net debt was stable. 
Key Events
During the year, Fiberweb continued 
to make signifi cant progress in 
implementing the turnaround strategy 
laid out at the time of demerger, to 
the point that the major restructuring 
programme can now be regarded as 
complete. The portfolio of the Group 
changed markedly during the year 
with the creation in July 2009 of the 
FitesaFiberweb 50/50 joint venture 
with Petropar of Brazil. This venture 
accomplished several strategic goals.  
Firstly, Fiberweb is now active in the 
growing markets of South America 
from a very competitive site in Southern 
Brazil. Secondly, Fitesa's independent  OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009    7 
plan to invest in the USA will now be 
implemented together with Fiberweb 
on a Fiberweb site - reducing risk and 
cost. Finally, the JV enjoys very strong 
relationships with both major global 
branded customers as well as regional 
branded and private-label customers.  
In addition, Fiberweb acquired the 
outstanding 50% of the successful 
Coronor JV from Nordenia, focused 
on producing medical laminates at a 
Fiberweb site in Germany.  
The relative stability of the Hygiene 
business, comprising Airlaid and 
Consumer Fabrics, provided the Group 
with a degree of resilience during 
a period of almost unprecedented 
volatility. Volumes of these products, 
which are consumed overwhelmingly 
in the production of consumer staples 
such as baby diapers and sanitary 
towels, remained stable overall, 
with a fall of around 10% in the fi rst 
half countered by a similar recovery 
in the second half as destocking 
by producers and retailers was 
reversed. Our production lines 
continued to be well-utilised overall.
Despite fairly stable demand, over-
capacity in Europe for consumer 
fabrics emerged as a number of 
new investments came on-line and 
many fabrics were further lightened, 
creating some price pressure. Thanks 
to recent investments by the Group, 
management was able to react fi rmly 
with the announcement in January 
2009 of detailed plans to remove 
uncompetitive lines at Fiberweb sites 
in Sweden, Germany and France, 
coordinated with the commissioning 
of the new Italian spunbond line in 
mid-2009. These initiatives were all 
completed as planned during the year 
with the desired effect on margins and 
competitiveness.
The Industrial business was impacted 
to a much greater extent than 
Hygiene by the turmoil in many 
markets during the year, especially 
those serving the construction 
industry. The precipitate decline in 
house building in the USA continued 
and similar issues were experienced 
in Western European markets. In 
these challenging circumstances 
the performance of the Company's 
Typar  housewrap products in 
both US and Canadian markets 
demonstrated strong resilience, 
with market share held in both 
countries even while volumes fell 
dramatically. In Europe, roofi ng 
products produced strong margins 
thanks to new product innovation and 
cost reduction. Filtration products 
had a strong year, demonstrating the 
resilience of a business largely based 
on replacement sales and benefi ting 
from strong sales of specialist 
meltblown fabrics for face-mask 
applications in response to the swine 
fl u epidemic during the year. New 
products for air fi ltration applications 
were developed for both European 
and North American markets. In the 
UK, Terram continued the recovery 
apparent since 2007, with record 
output from its remaining production 
line in South Wales and progress in 
developing sales in the Middle East 
and Russia in particular.
The heavy restructuring undertaken 
since 2006 continued to bear fruit 
during 2009 and management 
implemented further cost reduction 
actions to improve the Company's 
competitiveness. Investments were 
made in new technologies and 
production assets to improve product 
performance and to reduce waste and 
energy consumption, and programmes 
were launched to improve the 
information systems infrastructure of 
the Company. In line with its strategy, 
the Company has recently been 
evaluating a signifi cant acquisition 
opportunity. The Company is no longer 
pursuing this opportunity.
Refi nancing
Your Board was pleased to announce 
on 25 February 2010 that it had 
completed a refi nancing of the 
Company's primary debt instrument, 
a revolving credit facility, which has 
been in place since demerger and 
which was due to expire at the end of 
its fi ve-year term in October 2011. In 
view of the diffi cult conditions in capital 
markets in recent times, the Company 
embarked on refi nancing discussions 
with its banks well in advance of the 
latest practical date for refi nancing, 
which would have been at the end of 
2010. The new, smaller facility, which 
comprises revolving credit facilities of 
$170 million and  110 million refl ects 
the successful reduction of debt within 
the Group since demerger and matures 
on 31 July 2013 giving a term of nearly 
3  years. 
2009 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF SOLID RECOVERY FOR 
FIBERWEB, DESPITE STEADY INCREASES IN RAW MATERIAL 
PRICES FROM THE LOW LEVELS SEEN AT THE START OF THE 
YEAR AND THE IMPACT OF SEVERE RECESSIONS IN MANY 
MARKETS DURING THE PERIOD. 8    FIBERWEB PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
Interest costs for the new facility are 
signifi cantly more expensive, but 
are in line with prevailing market 
conditions, while the major covenants 
have been set at levels of 3.0x EBITDA 
gearing and 5.0x interest cover for 
the majority of the term of the facility, 
with more relaxed covenants during 
the initial period. This refi nancing 
removes a signifi cant uncertainty for 
the Group, provides a secure medium-
term funding base and refl ects the 
confi dence of the Group's bankers 
in our much-improved performance. 
Further details are set out in the 
separate statement on the refi nancing 
released on 25 February.
Dividends
Subject to approval by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 29 April 2010, the directors 
recommend a fi nal dividend of 2.50 
pence per share (2008: 2.50 pence). If 
approved, the dividend will be payable 
on 27 May 2010 to shareholders on the 
register on 23 April 2010.
The Board and Management
The Board has remained largely stable 
during the year, with the only change 
being the recruitment of an able and 
experienced non-executive director in 
Steve Dryden to replace Peter Hickman 
who retired at the end of the AGM in 
April. Steve is already contributing 
well and further strengthens both the 
commercial and fi nancial expertise of 
the Board. Executive management of 
the Group has remained unchanged 
throughout the year.
Prospects
Fiberweb is continuing to follow the 
strategy laid out at its launch as an 
independent company in 2006. The 
continuing improvement in underlying 
operating margin and cash fl ow seen 
throughout 2009, in diffi cult markets, is 
strong evidence that Fiberweb is on the 
right track.
The defensive nature of our Hygiene 
businesses, opportunities for 
consolidation and targeted investment 
as evidenced in the FitesaFiberweb 
joint venture and opportunities for 
further share gains in our Industrial 
businesses through product and 
channel innovation and through 
targeted acquisitions, provide a strong 
platform for further progress. The 
increased credibility of the Group, 
based on its steadily improving 
fi nancial performance, will allow 
us to continue addressing these 
opportunities in the months and years 
to come.
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
4 March 2010
THE CREATION 
OF THE FITESA-
FIBERWEB JOINT 
VENTURE GIVES 
FIBERWEB EXCELLENT 
ACCESS TO THE 
FAST GROWING AND 
ATTRACTIVE 
SOUTH AMERICAN 
MARKET