 04 Financial Objects plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
I am pleased to report another year of strong trading, with the
momentum of the last two years continuing throughout the
business. Both revenue and profitability showed continued growth,
and the order book is at an encouraging level. Cash generation in
the year was strong, and the year ended with net funds of  2.8
million. Order backlog at 31 December 2006 was  13.1million,
compared to  10.4 million at 31 December 2005, an increase
of 26%.
Following the successful turnaround of the Group's financial
performance, the Board proposes to recommence paying
dividends and recommends a final dividend of 1.0p per share.
We remain focused on three sectors: banking, wealth
management and energy.Within each of these sectors we have
software solutions that are capable of considerable organic
growth at attractive margins.The success of the wealth
management and credit risk software has provided a wider
customer and product base for the Group. Having successfully
integrated two acquisitions in the past two years, the Group
will continue to consider suitable opportunities within our
chosen sectors.
Financial results
Group revenues increased by 43% to  19.9 million (2005:  13.9
million), driven by the recent acquisitions, coupled with organic
growth across all divisions.Within the  19.9 million of sales,
42% ( 8.3 million) was recurring support revenue.
Strong growth in operating profit continues to be achieved.
Operating profit for 2006, before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, increased to  2.3 million (2005:  1.0 million).
Operating margins increased to 12%, compared to 7% last year.
Raft contributed  0.2 million (before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation) in the ten months of ownership.
Operating profit in the second half, before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation, was  1.3 million ( 1.0 million excluding
Raft).This compares to  1.0 million in the first half ( 1.1 million
excluding Raft). Operating margins in the second half improved
to 14%.
The integration of Raft was achieved with exceptional costs of
only  0.1 million.These costs were offset by exceptional income
from an insurance claim and the termination of a property lease,
resulting in a net exceptional credit of  0.1 million for the year.
After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, the Group
made a profit of  1.4 million (2005: loss of  0.2 million).
There is no material corporation tax charge in the year.The Group
has tax losses in excess of  11.0 million available for offset against
future profits. For the first time, a deferred tax asset ( 0.9 million)
in respect of these losses has been recognised, reflecting the
reasonable expectation of future profits within the Group.
Basic earnings per share have increased to 5.4 pence, from a loss
last year of 0.5 pence.Adjusted to exclude exceptional items,
goodwill amortisation and the deferred tax credit, the earnings
per share have increased to 5.3 pence from 2.9 pence.
As anticipated, operating cash flow at  2.5 million (2005:  0.8
million) was in line with operating profit.After the cost of
acquiring Raft ( 1.8 million net) and other exceptional items and
capital expenditure ( 0.5 million), the Group generated net cash
of  0.2 million.The Group's net funds at the end of the year were
 2.8 million (2005:  2.6 million).
The Group will adopt IFRS reporting for the year to December
2007.The principal impact will be in the treatment of goodwill
and the capitalisation of software development.The effect of these
accounting changes on 2006 earnings per share is favourable,
increasing basic earnings per share by 35% from 5.4 pence to 7.3
pence.The restatement of the 2006 results under IFRS is shown
on page 45.
Banking Division
Banking systems accounted for 57% of the Group's turnover in
the year to 31 December 2006 (2005: 74%). Operating margins
improved to 22%, compared to 12% in 2005, strengthened by
above normal first half licence sales. Excluding the operational risk
software acquired with Raft, revenues increased by 6% year on
year.
Within the division, IBIS had a good year, helped by a high level
of licence sales, particularly in the first half. It enters 2007 with a
good sales pipeline in an improving market. activebank also
returned higher year on year sales, and an improvement in
operating margins. Costs remain under tight control, with virtually
all development work being undertaken in our development
centre in Bangalore. Operational risk software, acquired with Raft,
had a successful and profitable second half, and is capable of
significant growth in 2007 and beyond.
Chairman's Statement
The outlook for 2007 is encouraging. A number of new
client contracts within Wealth Management and Energy
were signed in the second half of 2006, contributing to
the good order backlog going into 2007. This, along with
a strong pipeline of sales and the investment we have
made in sales and marketing, gives us confidence that
the momentum of growth can be continued.
Roger Foster
Chairman 05 Financial Objects plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The activebank system is focused on the UK and Scandinavian
markets, and is continuing to win new business in these markets.
The prospects for ibis s2 are more internationally spread, with a
number of prospects being developed by our partner network.
Following a particularly successful year, growth in the banking
division in 2007 is likely to be more modest.
Wealth Management Division
Sales of our wealth management software accounted for 12%
of Group turnover in the year to 31 December 2006 (2005: 9%).
After a weak first half, operating margins improved significantly in
the second half to 14%.
Prospects for 2007 and beyond are very encouraging, with a
number of new clients signed or close to signature.The sales and
marketing team has been expanded to exploit the potential of
the market.We are continuing to develop the product, including
integration with the ibis s2 Private Banking software.A significant
number of sales have been won from cross-selling to our banking
customers.
Energy Division
Sales of the credit risk system to the energy trading sector
accounted for 10% of Group turnover in the year to December
2006.The system was acquired with Raft in March 2006, and the
year has seen a strong build up of business, with margins in the
second half of the year improving to 10%.
The worldwide demand for sophisticated credit risk systems in
the energy trading market continues to be encouraging.The
market leading credentials of the product were demonstrated in
a substantial contract with Shell InternationalTrading which was
signed in the second half.The market remains buoyant and there
is a strong pipeline of sales prospects.
We have increased the sales team to further exploit the potential
of this market.We are also investing in the product, extending the
functionality and creating a new thin client version of the software
to allow access via the internet and through web portals.
Other software products
Sales of our other software products made a useful contribution,
accounting for 21% of the Group's turnover in the year to
31 December 2006 (2005: 17%), with full year operating margins
of 18%.
Within this division, we have a number of software solutions
serving specialist markets.These include fairs, a product for
Independent Financial Advisers; genisys, a document management
solution; and gvas, property asset management software for
maintaining large property portfolios.
Wholly-owned development centre in Bangalore
Over 50% of employees are now based at our wholly-owned
development centre in Bangalore, where the majority of
development is carried out, and most of the product groups now
have a team in place.This facility enables us to develop high quality
products while remaining cost competitive.
Board
As announced in October 2006, with effect from January 1 2007,
Karim Peermohamed has stepped up to Chief Executive Officer.
Karim joined the Company in 1997 as head of operations in
North America, and prior to his appointment as CEO was Chief
Operating Officer. I will remain as Chairman on a part time basis.
John Standen, following nine years as a non-executive director,
steps down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM. I would like
to express my thanks and appreciation to John for his substantial
contribution during his time with Financial Objects.
People
I would like to thank all of our employees for their efforts
over the past year.Their commitment and loyalty will be vital in
continuing the success of the Group during the exciting period
ahead.
Outlook
The outlook for 2007 is encouraging.A number of new client
contracts within Wealth Management and Energy were signed in
the second half of 2006, contributing to the good order backlog
going into 2007.This, along with a strong pipeline of sales and
the investment we have made in sales and marketing, gives us
confidence that the momentum of growth can be continued.
This confidence in the future is reflected in the decision to
recommend a return to the payment of a dividend.
Roger Foster
Chairman
12 March 2007