 Firestone Diamonds plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
06
Chair Man's stat EMEnt
Dear Shareholder,
The past year has seen continued good 
progress in Firestone's growth and 
development. Activities were primarily 
focused on Botswana, where a number of 
significant additions were made to the 
Company's kimberlite project portfolio. 
Botswana
tsabong
The most significant development during the 
financial year was the granting in October 
2006 of licences over 5,000 sq km covering 
the entire Tsabong kimberlite field. Tsabong 
is one of the largest diamondiferous 
kimberlite fields in the world and includes  
the 180 hectare MK1 kimberlite, which is  
one of the largest known diamondiferous 
kimberlites. When we applied for these 
licences we believed that the potential for an 
economic discovery was good, as the field is 
located in the same geological setting as the 
major Orapa and Jwaneng mines and none  
of the Tsabong kimberlites had ever been 
evaluated on an adequate scale or with 
modern techniques. Positive results from 
work carried out over the past year have 
strengthened this belief. 
Our primary focus at Tsabong has been to 
identify and evaluate the kimberlites in the 
field with the best economic potential as 
rapidly as possible. Approximately 5,300 
metres of percussion drilling and 2,800 
metres of core drilling have been carried out,  
and extensive laboratory and kimberlitic 
indicator mineral ( KIM') chemistry analysis 
undertaken. Based on the results of this 
work, 14 high priority kimberlites have been 
selected for large diameter drill ( LDD') bulk 
sampling in 2008. MK1 and MK31 are the 
most significant of these as they are already 
proven to contain microdiamonds, have good 
KIM chemistry and are very large, at 180 and 
75 hectares, respectively. 
A ten tonne per hour bulk sampling plant  
has been constructed and is currently  
being commissioned at Tsabong. The bulk 
sampling plant will be the only sample 
treatment facility in Botswana outside  
De Beers and will be a key asset for the 
Company, as material will be processed 
rapidly and without the risk of delays from 
commercial laboratories or contractors.  
The first bulk sample material is expected  
to be processed early next year. 
There is significant potential for the discovery 
of new kimberlites at Tsabong. Excellent 
progress has been made and we are  
pleased to announce the discovery of two 
additional kimberlites, bringing the total 
discovered in the past year to 13 and the 
total number of known kimberlites in the 
field to 83. Microdiamond, KIM chemistry 
and petrographic analysis are currently 
underway, on the basis of which some of the 
kimberlites may be added to the high priority 
list for bulk sampling. With many more 
geophysical targets to drill, the Company 
expects to continue to make new discoveries 
and the number of kimberlites in the field to 
increase to more than 100 as exploration 
continues in 2008. 
BK11
In March 2007, the Company was awarded a 
prospecting licence for the BK11 kimberlite, 
from which previous evaluation work 
produced grades of up to 16 carats per 100 
tonnes. BK11 is situated approximately 20 km 
south east of Debswana's Orapa Mine and  
5 km north east of the AK6 kimberlite, on 
which De Beers and African Diamonds are 
developing a new mine. BK11 is estimated  
to be approximately 8 hectares in size and 
overburden is shallow, at less than 20 metres. 
With its location close to the infrastructure 
around the mines in the Orapa region, the 
grade required for BK11 to be economically 
viable is expected to be modest.  Firestone Diamonds plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
07
Detailed ground geophysical surveys and 
approximately 3,000 metres of core drilling 
have been carried out, from which a detailed 
3D geological model of the kimberlite has 
been developed. LDD bulk sampling will be 
carried out in early 2008 in order to establish 
a representative grade for the kimberlite  
and to recover sufficient macro diamonds to 
provide an estimate of the diamond value. 
Subject to the results of this work, additional 
LDD sampling and resource delineation work 
will be undertaken in 2008.
Orapa and Jwaneng
Continued progress was made in the 
Jwaneng and Orapa areas, where the 
Company is the largest holder of diamond 
exploration rights around the Jwaneng  
and Orapa mines. Some of these areas are  
being explored by De Beers in joint venture 
with Firestone. 
De Beers undertook high resolution airborne 
geophysical surveys over approximately 50% 
of the Jwaneng joint venture area during  
the year. These surveys are expected to be 
completed in 2008 following which drilling  
of targets will take place. De Beers undertook 
a number of additional geophysical and 
geochemical surveys in the Orapa joint 
venture area during the year, and further 
exploration drilling is planned in 2008.
The Company also announces that it has 
been granted new prospecting licences over 
an area of approximately 1,000 sq km  
in the Orapa region and approximately  
3,000 sq km in the Jwaneng region. These 
new licenses increase Firestone's position  
as the largest holder of diamond exploration 
rights in Botswana's kimberlite fields, with 
approximately 26,000 square kilometres now 
under licence. Exploration on these areas will 
be carried out by Firestone, and work is 
expected to commence in 2008. 
South Africa
Activities in South Africa were primarily 
focused on the Company's toll-treatment 
joint venture project with De Beers at the 
Bonte Koe Mine. Processing of material for 
De Beers commenced at the start of the  
year and continued while work was being 
undertaken to expand the capacity of the 
plant. The expansion was completed in the 
second half of the financial year and the 
plant is now operating at its full design 
capacity of one million tonnes per annum. 
This project is very significant for Firestone,  
as it provides the Company with assured 
revenue and cash flow for the six year 
duration of the project. Discussions are 
currently under way in relation to further 
increases in production capacity in order  
to exploit additional De Beers' resources in 
the area. 
Limited work was undertaken at Firestone's 
other alluvial mining and exploration projects 
in South Africa during the year. With 
Botswana being the primary focus for the 
Company's exploration activities and with the 
Bonte Koe operation in South Africa now in 
full production, the Company intends to 
focus its future activities in South Africa on 
low risk toll-treatment and joint venture 
mining opportunities. As a result, the 
Company has decided to sell or joint venture 
its other assets in South Africa at the Oena 
Mine, the Avontuur Mine and the Groen 
River Valley and has agreed to terminate its 
joint venture with De Beers at the Groen 
River Valley.
Financial
Turnover for the year increased 173% to  
 1.6 million, principally as a result of the 
commencement of the toll-treatment project 
at Bonte Koe. The Company produced a 
profit for the year of  100,000. Revenue for 
the current financial year is expected to 
Tsabong town Firestone Diamonds plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
08
Chair Man's stat EMEnt continued
continue to rise significantly, with Bonte Koe 
contributing at full capacity for the whole 
year. The Company disposed of its interest  
in African Diamonds plc after the end of  
the financial year, generating a profit of over 
 2 million, and intends to use the proceeds 
to accelerate exploration and evaluation work 
at Tsabong and BK11.
Outlook
Botswana is the world's largest and lowest 
cost producer of diamonds and we believe 
that it is likely that further major economic 
discoveries will be made there. With 92 
known kimberlites in our licence areas, the 
likelihood of more discoveries being made in 
2008 and positive results received from work 
carried out over the past year, we believe that 
Firestone has a very good chance of making 
such a discovery. We intend to substantially 
increase the pace of our activities in 
Botswana. We plan to process between  
25 and 30, 100 tonne mini bulk samples in 
2008, which will allow us to make significant 
progress towards identifying the economic 
potential of our kimberlites by the end of  
the year. 
Firestone has made considerable progress 
over the past year and we are increasingly 
confident about the Company's long-term 
prospects. With a highly prospective portfolio 
in Botswana, the financial resources to 
develop the portfolio and a very experienced 
technical and management team in place,  
we believe that we are well placed to take 
advantage of what we expect will be  
several years of rising prices in the rough 
diamond market. 
Finally, I would like to record the  
Board's appreciation of the continued 
dedication and commitment of our senior  
management and staff, who have 
contributed to the Company's continued 
growth and development over the past year.
James F Kenny
Chairman
14 December 2007
MK45 core - mantle eclogite