 Firestone Diamonds plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 08
Chairman's statement
Dear Shareholder,
The past year has seen continued good 
progress in the growth and development of 
Firestone's project portfolio. Activities 
during the year were primarily focused on 
Botswana, which is the world's largest and 
lowest cost producer of diamonds. Firestone 
is the largest holder of diamond exploration 
rights in Botswana's kimberlite fields, with 
approximately 25,000 square kilometres 
now under license, and has 95 known 
kimberlites within its licence areas. 
Overview
The most significant developments during the 
year were at the BK11 evaluation project in 
Botswana, where we made good progress 
towards confirming its economic potential. 
We also acquired rights to the nearby BK16 
kimberlite, which we believe has similar 
potential to BK11. We commenced a 
significant bulk sampling programme at 
Tsabong, where we believe that the prospects 
for identifying economic kimberlites are very 
good. Activities in South Africa were focused 
on the Company's toll treatment joint venture 
with De Beers at the Bonte Koe Mine in 
Namaqualand. The operation reached its full 
design capacity and achieved target revenue 
of  3.3 million for the year. 
With appetite for risk greatly reduced in 
current market conditions and investors 
primarily concerned about cash and cash 
flow, we are focusing most of our activities 
on BK11 and BK16, which are at a more 
advanced stage of evaluation. In relation to 
BK11, we believe that, subject to the results 
of the next phase of evaluation, it could be 
brought into production as early as mid 
2010. We are also continuing to pursue new 
toll treatment projects, which are increasingly 
attractive in the current economic 
environment as a source of consistent and 
predictable revenue and cash flow. 
While we believe that Tsabong has very 
substantial economic potential, it is at an 
earlier stage than our Orapa projects and 
will need significant investment to confirm 
economic viability. We have therefore 
decided to reduce expenditure on Tsabong 
and are considering the introduction of a 
joint venture partner to finance further 
work. Despite current market conditions, 
interest in the project remains high and a 
number of expressions of interest have 
already been received. 
The crises that have damaged the world's 
financial markets and the global economy 
are without precedent and have had a very 
significant impact on the mining sector. 
Share prices of most companies in the 
sector, both large and small, including 
Firestone, have experienced substantial 
declines as a result. While many of these 
companies may not survive or remain 
independent due to depressed commodity 
prices and limited availability of debt and 
equity finance, we remain confident about 
Firestone's prospects. The Company's cash 
position remains secure, we have a very 
experienced and capable management 
team, a highly prospective portfolio of 
projects and a clear vision of how to 
continue successfully developing our 
company in these challenging times.
Financial
Turnover for the period increased 102% to 
 3.3 million compared to last year, 
principally as a result of Bonte Koe reaching 
full production capacity during the year. The 
Company produced an operating profit of 
 2.1 million before impairment charges of 
 2.2 million related to its South African 
alluvial assets. During the year the Company 
disposed of its interests in African Diamonds 
plc, which resulted in a net gain of  2.8 
million. Loss per share was 0.4p (2007: 1p 
loss per share). In July 2008 the Company 
raised  5 million from a share placement to 
finance exploration and evaluation 
expenditures in Botswana. The Company's 
current cash position is approximately  
 2.5 million.
Diamond market
Substantial decreases in prices for rough 
diamonds have been reported over the past 
two months. These decreases have not 
been reflected in prices for polished 
diamonds, which have only declined by 
about 10% in 2008. We believe that much 
of the rough price decreases can be 
attributed to significant reductions in 
availability of bank financing to rough 
diamond buyers for inventory and 
receivables. We continue to believe that the 
long-term prospects for diamonds remain 
positive due to the projected significant 
long-term shortfall in supply and that 
diamond prices will increase once again 
when the global economy begins to recover.
BK11, Botswana
Substantial progress was made at the BK11 
kimberlite in the Orapa area during the year. 
The Phase 1 evaluation programme was 
completed in June 2008, with very 
encouraging results. A sample of 135 
tonnes of material produced a sample grade 
of 10 carats per hundred tonnes (cpht )  Firestone Diamonds plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09
1. Bulk sampling plant, Botswana
2. Drill core on BK11, Botswana
1
2
which an independent valuation of 
diamonds recovered will be undertaken. The 
Company expects that this will provide 
sufficient data to define an inferred 
resource. Subject to the results of this work, 
the Company is evaluating the feasibility of 
accelerating a development decision on 
BK11 to allow first production from BK11 to 
commence in 2010.
BK16, Botswana
In June 2008, the Company entered into an 
agreement under which it can earn an 87.5% 
interest in the BK16 kimberlite, which is 
located 20 kilometres from BK11. The 
Company believes that BK16 has similar 
economic potential to BK11. BK16 was 
discovered by De Beers in the 1970's and a 
grade of 15 cpht was reported from bulk 
sampling. Diamonds recovered by the limited 
historical sampling carried out were 
predominantly high quality, white gemstones, 
which indicates that they are likely to have a 
high average value, possibly similar to BK11. 
The Company plans to carry out a 
programme of core and LDD drilling similar to 
that undertaken on BK11. Core drilling 
commenced on BK16 in November 2008. 
Tsabong, Botswana
Tsabong is the Company's biggest 
kimberlite exploration and evaluation 
project. It contains 85 known kimberlites, 
including the 180 hectare MK1 kimberlite 
which is one of the world's largest known 
diamondiferous kimberlites. 
Substantial work was carried out on 
Tsabong during the year, with over 10,000 
metres of percussion, core and LDD drilling 
completed. An independent review of data 
from the project was completed and 
confirmed that the Tsabong field is located 
in a similar geological setting to the major 
Jwaneng Mine and that it has the potential 
to contain economic large sized 
diamondiferous kimberlite deposits. 
Evaluation work was focused on 14 high 
priority kimberlites that had been selected 
based on diamond content, kimberlite 
indicator mineral chemistry and size. LDD 
drilling was carried out on MK1 and 
macrodiamonds were recovered during the 
year, but processing of the samples was not 
completed as a result of metallurgical 
problems encountered with MK1 material at 
the bulk sampling plant. 
Since the end of the year modifications have 
been made to the bulk sampling plant and 
LDD drilling has been completed on a 
further five kimberlites. All LDD samples 
have been processed through the bulk 
sampling plant and are now being 
processed through the newly commissioned 
grease recovery plant as a final audit. 
Results are expected in early 2009.
South Africa
Activities in South Africa were focused on 
the Company's toll treatment joint venture 
with De Beers at the Bonte Koe Mine in 
Namaqualand. The operation had a very 
successful year, achieving full design 
capacity of one million tonnes per annum 
and positive cash flow in the first half of the 
year. With the Company's strategic focus 
increasingly directed towards Botswana, the 
Company announced during the year that 
the Company's other alluvial assets in South 
Africa would be sold or joint ventured. A 
number of discussions have been held with 
interested parties, but no agreements have 
been concluded yet.
Jwaneng, Botswana 
Following the completion by De Beers of 
their initial exploration programme over 
Firestone's prospecting licences in the 
Jwaneng region, De Beers and Firestone 
have agreed to terminate the Jwaneng joint 
venture. The Company is currently 
evaluating alternatives for the project.
James F Kenny
Chairman
9 December 2008
and a modelled grade of 15 cpht. The 
quality of diamonds recovered was very 
good, comprising mostly clear white 
gemstones and the value was estimated at 
approximately $200 per carat in June 2008. 
With low operating costs in the Orapa area 
of $7-8 per tonne, the economic potential 
of BK11 looks very promising. 
In July 2008, the Company commenced its 
Phase 2 evaluation programme, comprising 
approximately 2,300 metres of percussion, 
core and 36 inch large diameter drilling 
(LDD ). Drilling was completed in 
November 2008 and approximately 1,200 
tonnes of kimberlite material from six LDD 
holes was transported to the Company's 
bulk sample plant at Tsabong. 
In order to improve final diamond recovery 
from the bulk sampling plant, a modular 
second stage diamond recovery plant based 
around automated grease belt technology 
has been leased. Commissioning of the 
grease plant was completed in November 
2008 and has delayed processing of the 
LDD samples by six weeks. Results from the 
first hole have been analysed, and returned 
a sample grade of 10 cpht from 
approximately 120 tonnes processed, which 
is in line with the sample grade from the 
first three LDD holes drilled in Phase 1. 
With annual shutdown starting in mid 
December, processing of material from the 
five remaining LDD holes will resume in 
January 2009. External audits of Phase 2 
bulk sampling will be carried out, following  Firestone Diamonds plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10
Botswana is the 
world's largest and 
lowest cost producer 
of diamonds Firestone Diamonds plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
Botswana is the 
world's largest and 
lowest cost producer 
of diamonds