 Chairman's statement
People have a persistent and growing desire  
to travel, be it for business, visiting friends and  
family or recreation. Ground transport infrastructure  
is becoming saturated in the UK, with inadequate 
investment failing to provide sufficient capacity  
to meet demand. The London-centric nature of the UK 
transport debate dictates that transport infrastructure 
investment is overwhelmingly spent there, and on  
links to and from London; HS1, HS2, and Crossrail for 
example. The  aviation' debate in the UK barely rises 
above another runway for London. Heathrow declares 
itself the UK's only  hub' airport, yet it has air links to 
only seven UK airports.
Flybe is different. Flybe serves 28 UK airports, taking 
over 7 million passengers around the UK and from the 
UK to other European destinations. We get on with the 
business of carrying customers from A to B as quickly, 
efficiently and respectfully as possible. All those 
awkward journeys that otherwise would entail long  
car, rail or ferry trips, become an easy hour or so flight; 
Exeter to Glasgow, Edinburgh to Birmingham, 
Guernsey to Southampton or Belfast City to 
Manchester, for example. 
Flybe operates from regional airports, where typically 
the runway seems shorter than the terminal walkway  
at Gatwick, and where checking-in is so much quicker 
than even trying to park at Heathrow. These airports 
are usually closer to where people live and work.  
They are more convenient and reduce car journeys  
to the airport as well as total journey times.
Regional aviation is a crucial part of the UK's transport 
infrastructure. It is not a luxury. It is an essential part  
of a modern thriving economy. So it remains a source 
of amazement that the Government persists with  
the arbitrary and discriminatory application of  
Air Passenger Duty ( APD'), where a typical domestic 
flight can be charged five times the tax per mile of  
a long-haul one. This is exacerbated when a return 
international flight suffers this charge once, but a 
domestic one is taxed twice. Yet in the last Budget, the 
Government actually reduced long-haul APD rates by 
 1 billion, while informing Flybe that it could not afford 
to reduce domestic rates.
 Flybe has undergone great change 
in the last 12 months, not only in its 
management, but also in developing 
its strategy and in cementing its 
balance sheet strength. This has 
secured strong foundations  
for the successful turnaround  
of this business. 
Simon Laffin
Non-Executive Chairman
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 8 The cost reduction programmes have, sadly, resulted  
in over 1,000 job losses. Fortunately, through 
impressive teamwork with both staff and unions, the 
number of compulsory redundancies has been small. 
We are, however, sad to have had to lose good and 
loyal people from our workforce. Flybe has no option 
but to remain competitive on cost. Total headcount  
has now reduced by 29% over the financial year. The 
turnaround has put a great deal of strain on many 
employees who have put extraordinary levels of work 
and commitment into restoring Flybe to financial and 
commercial health. On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to pay tribute to each and every employee who has 
contributed to this; be they cabin crew, maintenance 
staff, manager, pilot or administrator.
As already announced, there will be some further  
job losses after this summer as seasonal routes are 
discontinued and some further aircraft are grounded, 
as planned. However, we believe that we are now  
on the verge of emerging from this period of 
retrenchment, and looking forward to future 
considered and careful profitable growth. The early 
precursors to this have already been announced with 
additional routes from Birmingham, London Southend 
and London City.
Board
Saad Hammad took over as Chief Executive Officer  
in August 2013. We believe that Flybe has in Saad  
a talented and inspirational leader. I became Chairman 
in November last year. We have already announced 
that Philip de Klerk will join the Board later this year  
as Chief Financial Officer. Philip has a strong financial 
pedigree from both Unilever and SAB Miller and  
we very much look forward to him joining us.  
Timo Anderson, former Director General of the  
UK Military Aviation Authority, joined the Board  
as a Non-Executive Director in May 2014, and brings 
great experience of aviation, leadership and air safety.
A momentous year for Flybe
Under Jim French, the previous Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, the Board concluded that Flybe 
needed to reduce its cost base significantly and a 
programme of cost reductions was initiated. In August 
2013, Jim stood down as Chief Executive Officer and 
Saad Hammad joined in that role. Saad, who came with 
a strong background in logistics and with easyJet, 
made an immediate impact. He identified that even 
more needed to be done to reduce costs to compete  
in this market and that the business needed to upgrade 
its processes and capabilities as well as to develop its 
strategy further.
Jim stood down as Chairman at the beginning of 
November 2013, and I joined the business as Non-
Executive Chairman. Later that month, Saad presented 
the Interim Results and announced his twin-engined 
strategy of regional UK scheduled and white label 
flying, underpinned by further cost reductions, working 
with all suppliers, and a highly disciplined approach to 
commercial and route profitability. 
In March this year, shareholders contributed  155.7m 
gross of new equity to provide funds to enable greater 
resilience to the business, strengthening its balance 
sheet, and also to fund growth in line with the new 
strategy, as outlined by Saad. This has now been 
focused into developing new routes and bases, further 
efficiency gains and IT investment, fleet optimisation, 
greater ownership of aircraft and expansion of white 
label flying. A franchising agreement with Stobart  
Air was announced covering six routes from  
London Southend.
The following month, the strategy continued to be 
rolled out, with five new routes announced from 
London City airport, as well as a complete re-launch of 
the Flybe brand; a new purple identity, website, aircraft 
livery, staff uniforms and customer service initiatives. 
Many of these are being rolled out over the summer 
and the positive effect will accumulate over the  
coming months. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 9  Chairman' s stat ement
Continued
General outlook
The general economic outlook in our most important 
market, the UK, has improved - with growth reported  
in the year to December 2013 of 1.9% - and most 
commentators expecting 2014 to see growth  
in the range of 2.4% to 3.5%. While this provides an 
encouraging back-drop, it is important we continue  
to ensure Flybe does not depend on positive macro-
economic conditions for its future success, and remains 
focused on capacity, revenue and cost discipline. 
While our deliberate actions last year to remove 
unprofitable routes will continue to impact revenue and 
profit into 2014/15, our disciplined focus, significantly 
reduced cost base, strengthened balance sheet and 
growth strategy, along with an encouraging macro-
economic backdrop, give the Board confidence of 
delivering a good result for the current year and of 
driving sustainable profitable growth over the  
coming years.
Simon Laffin
Chairman
Jim French, the former Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, retired from the Board in November 2013 after 
more than two decades working for Flybe/Jersey 
European, building it into a major regional airline.  
Mark Chown, Mike Rutter and Andrew Strong, resigned 
from the Board as Executive Directors in August 2013.
Andrew Knuckey, Chief Financial Officer, will retire 
from the Board in August this year. Andrew has played 
a key role in the development of Flybe over the last 
nine years, in particular supporting the turnaround 
under Saad and this year's successful capital raise. 
Anita Lovell stood down as a Non-Executive Director  
in May last year. Alan Smith has now served nearly nine 
years on the Board and will retire as a Non-Executive 
Director in August this year. Chris Simpson stood  
down as Company Secretary in March this year, having 
served in this role since before Flybe's 2010 IPO and 
before that as Finance Director.
For the time being, Andrew Knuckey has taken on the 
role of Company Secretary, until Annelie Carver joins 
as General Counsel and Company Secretary in June 
this year. She is currently a partner in the Corporate 
and Commercial team at Michelmores Solicitors.
I should like to thank all the departing Directors for 
their hard work and commitment over many years and 
wish the new Directors good health for the challenges 
to come!
Corporate governance
In view of the new standards of best practice and 
regulations, we have made an additional statement  
on this important area on page 45.
Results
This year has seen a significant improvement in 
financial performance as a result of the efforts taken  
to restructure the business. Adjusted profit before tax, 
restructuring and surplus capacity costs for 2013/14 
was  1.7m, which marks a significant improvement  
on the prior year's  23.6m loss, and reported profit 
before tax was  8.1m (2012/13: loss before tax of 
 41.1m). The Group generated operating cash flow 
before restructuring of  7.3m, and its net assets  
at 31 March 2014 were  194.1m. These results are  
in line with market expectations.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 10 F l y b e . . .  r e l a un c h , r e b r an d , 
renewal
456MPH
108MPH
70MPH
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial and  
other information
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 11