 4 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Alastair Taylor  Chairman
The Group will continue to move towards delivering value for
shareholders by strengthening its position as the leading provider of
electronic trading solutions to the life and pensions market and exploiting
the opportunities emerging in the mortgage market.  Alastair Taylor, Chairman
Chairman's Statement
Business review
Last year, we promised to continue to
reduce costs and to target resources to
maintain the Group's improving financial
performance. This we have done. Despite
continued tough trading conditions in
our core UK life and pensions market, I
am pleased to report that the Group has
made excellent progress during the year.
Pre-Tax Losses were significantly reduced
to  0.38 million, down from  3.8 million
last year. During the second half of the
year, the Group reported an operating
profit of  0.1 million and generated cash
from trading for the first time. These are
landmark events in the Group's
development.
Total sales revenues were down 18% to
 5.4 million reflecting the changing mix
of revenue in the business as sales of
goal:technology licences and services
continued to grow strongly, up 30%, and
the completion of the major Point of Sale
(POS) solution developed for Norwich
Union resulted in an anticipated revenue
decline. The business has matured
during the year and given our recent
success in entering new market sectors,
we look to the future with optimism.
The Group has continued to expand its
market share in the UK life and pensions
market. With the sale of e-business
components to Clerical Medical, part of
HBOS Group, and of a Multi Channel
Advice (MCA ) solution to another
leading life and pensions provider
during the period, all of the top ten UK
life and pensions companies now use
MCA solutions components based on
goal:technology. Whilst the majority of
turnover came from our existing
customer base, new customers during
the year also included Winterthur Life UK
and Webline in the life and pensions
market, Network Data and Kensington
Mortgages in the mortgage market, and
a leading high street bank.
Our market leading MCA solutions are
widely recognised, having won the 'Best
use of IT in insurance' category at the
Financial Sector Technology Awards for
the past two years, last year for Norwich
Union's RIO project and this year for
Zurich's ETi project.
During the year, Milliman USA Inc, a
leading North American actuarial services
business acquired the business and
liabilities of Focus Solutions Inc, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Focus Solutions
Holdings Inc (FSHI ) in which Focus had
retained a 49% investment since the
disposal of 51% of the issued share
capital of FSHI to management last year.
As part of the acquisition agreement,
Milliman has signed a new three year
licence agreement with the Group,
ensuring that Focus will benefit from any
future revenue based on the use of
goal:technology through royalty
payments. Initial progress is encouraging,
although this is unlikely to result in
substantial revenues in the short term.
In February, we launched XFormation,
the world's first commercially available
XForms Integrated Development
Environment (IDE) for the creation of
web solutions. Incorporating technology
supplied by x.port.net Limited,
XFormation is a generic XForms based
toolkit, supporting the next generation
of forms technology that is set to
replace HTML forms. XFormation has
global application across all industry
sectors.
During the year, we secured our first
orders for MCA solutions for the UK
mortgage market, with Network Data
and Kensington Mortgages. While not
significant in terms of value, these
contracts are very significant for the
business, particularly the provision of an
online mortgage application system to
Kensington to enable brokers and
intermediaries to transact electronic
new mortgage business directly via the
Internet.
Review of results
Turnover for the year ending 31st March
2004 was  5.4 million compared with
 6.6 million in the previous financial
year. This reduction was principally the
result of the completion of the Norwich
Union Point of Sale solution, RIO. In
contrast, sales of goal:technology and
associated services increased by 30%
from  2.81 million to  3.67 million and
now represent 66% of turnover,
compared with 43% last year.
Despite the decline in sales revenues,
we reduced our loss before tax to
 0.38 million compared to  3.8 million
last year. In the second half of the year,
the business generated a profit of
 0.28 million. This is the first six month
period in the Group's history in which
we have generated a profit.
The progress made towards profitability
in the year, was largely achieved by
reducing administrative expenses from
 9.60 million last year to  5.98 million
this year. Cost reductions achieved in
the first half of the year fed through into
a much improved performance in the
second half. The monthly administrative
costs of the business have been reduced
to  0.42 million in the second half of the
year, equivalent to annualised costs of
 5.03 million. Substantial savings were
made at an executive level, in Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
administrative areas and in professional
service delivery, particularly in relation
to the RIO project. However, we
maintained our investment in research
and development, sales and marketing
and in our partnerships team, as it is
these areas that will develop and grow
the business in the future. Investment
in these areas will continue at similar
levels in FY2005, while we maintain
stringent control over all areas of
expenditure.
Losses after tax were  0.28 million
against  3.43 million last year, after a
corporation tax credit of  0.1 million
against the costs of investment in
research and development for the year
ending March 2003.
Cash outflow from operating activities
during the year totalled  0.9 million
(FY2003:  2.4 million). During the year, a
total of  0.7 million was raised from
share placings or the exercise of share
options. In the second half of the period,
the Group generated  0.2 million of
cash from its trading activities. This is the
first period in the Group's history when it
has achieved this. Cash and money
market deposits at 31st March 2004
were  1.5 million, compared with  1.3
million at 30th September 2003 and  1.7
million at the end of the last financial
year, and the balance sheet remains
debt free. During the year, we did,
however, negotiate bank facilities
totalling  350,000 with HSBC plc, should
we require them.
Loss per share for the year ending
31st March 2004 was 1.0p, compared
with a loss of 13.4p for the year ending
31st March 2003.
The Board's primary objective is to
provide the resources necessary for the
business to grow and create a business
of sustained profitability and cash
generation. In the long term, this
represents the best opportunity for
return on investment. Accordingly, we
currently have no plans to pay a
dividend in the near future.
Research and development
The investment in research and
development and in product
development is substantial and totalled
 0.9 million in FY2004 (FY2003:  1.0
million). This investment is fully written
off in the year in which it is incurred. The
Group benefits from the research and
development tax credits and has made a
provision in the accounts for the credit
due for FY2003. No provision has yet
been made for FY2004, pending
agreement of the FY2003 submission.
People
The Group has achieved much since
flotation on AIM in March 2000. We now
face different challenges and during the
year a number of changes to the Board
were made to help take the Group
forward to its next phase in its
development.
Martin Clements was appointed to the
Board as Finance Director on June 12th
2003 when Sue Hele stepped down as
Finance Director. As Focus enters the
next phase of its development, the
Group will benefit from Martin's
experience in developing high profile
software companies both in the UK and
internationally. I would like to extend my
thanks to Sue for her commitment and
contribution to the Group during the
previous two and half years.
Bob Hull retired as a non-executive
director and Company Secretary on 25th
September 2003 after nearly five years
involvement with the Group, including
acting as Finance Director at the time of
the AIM flotation. We remain extremely
grateful to Bob for his efforts at the time
of the float and for his continued wise
counsel since that event. I would like to
wish him all the best in his future
endeavours.
The improved financial performance of
the Group is a testament to the
reputation of our staff for both their
technical expertise and responsiveness to
customer requirements. To achieve these
results in the current environment has
required both flexibility and commitment
from our staff. These challenging times
have created many pressures, in spite of
which our team has continued to exceed
our expectations time after time. I thank
all of them for their continued
commitment to Focus and for their
achievements and enthusiasm.
Outlook
Whilst the whole financial services
market remains volatile, insurance
companies and others in the financial
services industry are moving steadily
towards electronic trading. Over the next
year, a number of significant changes in
regulation are likely to accelerate this.
However, customers are still reviewing
expenditure carefully. Consequently, we
will continue to contain costs and target
resources to maintain the Group's
improving financial performance in this
challenging environment. The Group will
continue to move towards delivering
value for shareholders by strengthening
its position as the leading provider of
electronic trading solutions to the life
and pensions industry and exploiting
the opportunities emerging in the
mortgage market. We will continue
working to fully exploit the potential of
our MCA solutions based on
goal:technology, supporting our new
product, XFormation, and developing
partnerships to help us penetrate other
market sectors and regions.