 6 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chairman's statement
Fortune Oil continued to perform 
strongly in 2012 and made 
significant progress across all  
core businesses, delivering on  
its strategy in the face of the 
prevailing uncertain global 
economic conditions.
Introduction
I am pleased to report that Fortune Oil continued to perform 
strongly in 2012 and made significant progress across all 
core businesses, delivering on its strategy in the face of the 
prevailing uncertain global economic conditions.
Results and Operations
The Group's revenues increased by 18 per cent to  739.4 
million (2011:  624.6 million), and operating profits were 
 28.5 million, 4 per cent higher than 2011 ( 27.4 million). 
Profit attributable to owners of the parent decreased by  
14 per cent to  15.7 million (2011:  18.2 million) however, 
profits attributable to owners of the parent before other 
gains increased to  11.0 million (2011:  10.8 million).
During the year, we entered into a strategic joint venture 
arrangement with a view to investing in China Gas  
Holdings Limited (CGH ), one of the largest independent 
natural gas businesses in China. This culminated in the 
decision, announced at the end of 2012 to enter into a 
transaction with CGH in relation to the Company's natural 
gas business. Once complete, this will significantly 
strengthen the Company's balance sheet, through the 
receipt of cash proceeds of US$170 million as half of the 
consideration for our 85% share of the natural gas business. 
The CGH transaction remains conditional on approval by the  
Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of the 
PRC and the Hong Kong Takeovers Executive or Takeovers 
and Merges Panel, which is expected mid-year 2013.
The Board is evaluating several options on how to best utilise 
the proceeds from the transaction including the potential  
for strategic acquisitions in the energy and resources sector 
that are synergistic to the Group's strategy, and exploring 
other investment opportunities and gas supply options that 
can help to strengthen the supply of resources for the 
combined gas business with CGH.
Fortune Oil's strength lies in its relationships with its joint 
venture partners in developing growth opportunities. This  
is clearly demonstrated with the CGH transaction which 
further strengthens our position in the Chinese natural gas 
market. As a result of the CGH transaction, Fortune Oil 
should own an enlarged stake and exercise significant 
influence in CGH, which will have natural gas operations in 
200 cities across China. CGH recognised the complementary 
skills and assets of our natural gas business which ideally 
positions the company for success in what we expect to 
become an increasingly competitive market.
In 2012 we also made significant progress in a number of 
other key areas:
 We are in the final stages of negotiating a replacement 
structure for the Maoming SPM partnership.
 We obtained the government approvals to progress  
the construction of the gas gathering system for our 
CBM block in Liulin. This is a critical step towards 
commercialisation of gas from this block.
 We achieved a major first for China in obtaining the 
regulatory approvals for the commercial operation  
of our dual fuel LNG ship. This gives us first mover 
advantage in the development of a major new market  
for gas in China.
As a Group we will pursue attractive growth opportunities  
in our target markets. 7 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chairman's statement
Dividend
The Board recommends the payment of a dividend to 
shareholders for 2012, of 0.16p per share (2011: 0.18p  
per share). The dividend will be payable on 15 August 2013 
to shareholders on the register as at 12 July 2013.
Management and Governance
Given the importance of the CGH transaction, continuity 
across the Board and Management team is critical during 
this period. We are determined to manage a smooth  
and efficient transition to a new combined natural gas 
organisation. The continued performance of all of our 
businesses during this period is critical and we will ensure 
that there is no disruption to our operations.
As a result of the CGH transaction and the proposed 
change of the status of the Maoming SPM joint venture,  
we were no longer able to maintain our Premium Listing  
on the London Stock Exchange but have become a 
Standard Listed company, with effect from 20 March 2013. 
Nevertheless, following this move we are committed to 
maintaining the high standards of corporate governance 
and the same reporting standards as are required for  
a Premium Listed company.
We will continue to evaluate options such that Fortune Oil's 
listing status meets the best interests of the Company and 
our shareholders.
Review of China Economy
China's economy slowed to 7.8 per cent in 2012, its lowest 
annual growth rate since 1999, as a result of restrictions  
the Chinese government had put in place to cool China's 
property market and as a result of the lower demand  
for Chinese goods from Europe and the United States. 
However, unlike in 2009, the Chinese government did  
not step in with a stimulus plan. The outcome is a general 
recognition that the days of double-digit growth in the 
Chinese economy have come to an end. The ten yearly 
transition of the Chinese leadership in 2012 is expected  
to lead to a wholesale revamp of government ministries 
aimed at reducing bureaucracy.
Energy price mechanisms are also being reformed and  
are moving to a more market based approach. Fortune Oil 
pays close attention to short-term economic conditions  
but also takes a long term strategic view of the Company's 
development, balancing growth opportunities and 
investment returns whilst continuously looking to  
improve our competitiveness.
Outlook
Fortune Oil's growth is underpinned by China's ongoing 
economic growth and the associated increase in demand 
for energy. Although China's GDP grew at only 7.8 per cent 
in 2012 the OECD is predicting growth of 8.5 per cent in 
2013 and 8.9 per cent in 2014. The OECD also predicts 
that China will over take the United States and become  
the world's biggest economy in 2016.
In line with the slowdown in China's economic growth rate, 
Chinese oil demand grew by 4.2 per cent in 2012, or at 
about 387,000 barrels of oil per day, down from 6.3 per 
cent growth in 2011 and the double-digit growth in 2010.  
In line with signs that the economy started to expand in Q4 
2012, China's crude oil demand hit a record high of 44.8 
million tonnes and refinery throughput also reached an all 
time high of 10.15 million bpd in December 2012.
Consumption of oil-derived products such as diesel and 
petrol will continue to grow to fuel the rapid expansion  
of the automotive and aviation sectors. Maoming SPM, 
West Zhuhai Terminal and the Bluesky businesses are  
well positioned to participate in this growth.
Looking to the future, the projects that will help drive 
Fortune Oil's growth are advancing well.
In the natural gas business we anticipate completion of  
the gas gathering system by the middle of 2013 and this  
will enable commercial gas sales from our CBM block in 
Liulin. With the approval of our LNG ship design we will 
progress the development of our construction of LNG 
refuelling stations along the Yangtze and conversion of  
ships to dual fuel LNG technology. 8 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
In the Oil business we are planning to increase the capacity 
of the SPM terminal once the replacement partnership 
structure is in place to meet the growing demand at 
Sinopec's Maoming refinery and our Trading business is 
expanding into the supply and trade of other commodities 
including diesel, LPG and LNG.
Guangzhou airport started construction of its third runway 
and second terminal in August 2012, as passenger traffic 
has exceeded its design capacity. The airport handled 48 
million passengers in 2012 but this is projected to increase 
to 80 million in 2020. This bodes well for the Bluesky 
business which supplies the aviation fuel to this airport.
The Resources business completed the feasibility study  
and obtained a JORC compliant resource estimate for  
the Hrazdan iron ore mine in Armenia and is in the process 
of completing a final set of studies required to obtain the 
regulatory approvals which are now expected in 2014.
As a Group we have clear priorities, direction and  
focus. I remain confident of the continued success in  
the coming years and see great opportunities ahead.  
In shaping our portfolio, our priority is to create value  
for our shareholders and enable them to share in China's 
growth, one of the most exciting markets in the world.  
I would like to thank them for their continued support and 
loyalty. We remain very optimistic about the future growth 
prospects for Fortune Oil. With its solid foundation across 
the oil and gas sectors in China and the anticipated rising 
demand for energy, the Group anticipates an even better 
future for its businesses in the years to come.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our employees for their 
efforts. This has been another demanding year and they 
have shown admirable dedication. Special thanks are due  
to management for the successful execution of the CGH 
transaction, the most significant in the Company's history.
QIAN Benyuan
Chairman
24 April 2013
chairman's statement
Guangzhou airport 
started construction 
of its third runway 
and second terminal 
in August 2012.