 FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S & CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2011 
 
3 
Introduction 
 
Freshwater's 11
th
 year of trading was a period of adjustment and change as the Group grappled with the 
impact of Government austerity measures, while taking advantage of opportunities emerging as a result of a 
fast-evolving media environment. 
 
Overall revenue was down 20% to  4.34m, but the Group generated a positive operating cash flow of  0.54m 
(before interest and tax) and continued to strengthen its financial position by reducing liabilities from bank 
borrowings, tax and deferred consideration from  1.37m to  0.91m. 
 
Some of the Group's traditionally strong divisions were hit hard by developments following the May 2010 
General Election, with our healthcare, public affairs (mainly transport) and consumer divisions losing between 
them more than  1.20m of revenue year on year. 
 
In addition, the results reflect the fact that during 2010-11 the Group had to write off  0.36m of accrued 
revenue after difficulties with a major project in the energy sector. 
 
At the same time, however, our Creative division saw revenue grow 17% to  0.82m (2010:  0.70m) as a result 
of increasing demand for integrated campaigns involving digital marketing, video, social media and events as 
well as PR. 
 
In June 2011, the Cardiff-based Creative team scored a UK-wide success when it won Best Integrated 
Campaign at the CIPR Excellence Awards in London for its work for Donate Wales highlighting the Invisible 
Death Row of people waiting for organ donations.   
 
 
Financial Review 
 
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income shows a loss before tax of  0.91m. However, as note 5 
explains, this is after finance and exceptional restructuring costs of  0.14m and non-cash items of  0.74m 
(goodwill impairment -  0.53m, depreciation and amortisation -  0.21m) and a total accrued revenue write off 
of  0.41m. 
 
The Group's  Headline' EBITDA was therefore  0.38m, which the Board believes reflects the Group's 
underlying profitability and positive operating cash flow. 
 
The Board, nevertheless, recognises the EBITDA margin needs to return to benchmark industry levels of circa 
20% so the Group can eliminate financial liabilities more rapidly and deliver a return to shareholders. 
 
Cost reductions were implemented in the second half of the year and in September 2011 to reflect the 
difficulties experienced with a major project in the energy sector. The benefits of these savings will be fully felt 
in the second half of the current year.  
 
In addition, the Group is making cost savings by reducing office space in Cardiff, London, Leeds and Glasgow. 
This will be completed in 2012 and deliver annualised savings of more than  0.25m. 
 
The primary focus of the Board and senior management team is, however, on delivering organic growth by 
sustaining existing revenue streams and developing new ones. 
 
The Group has a clear strategy for playing to its strengths as the only agency able to offer integrated 
campaigns and diverse sectoral and specialist expertise through teams in every part of the UK. 
 
With costs now substantially reduced, small increases in revenue will deliver a significant improvement in 
profitability. 
 
 
 
 
 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S & CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2011 
 
4
Dividend 
 
For the second year running, the company will not pay a dividend, helping to conserve cash and pay down 
liabilities. The Board recognises, however, the importance of giving shareholders an ongoing return on their 
investment and will resume dividend payments at an appropriate level as soon as conditions permit. 
 
Operational Review 
 
Freshwater continues to have a diverse client base. During 2010-11, we provided services to 241 clients from 
nine different sectors with only two clients accounting for more than 5% of revenue. 
 
The Group's ten leading clients by revenue were: National Grid plc, Welsh Government Food Directorate, 
Specsavers, University of Wales, Football Association of Wales, General Mills, Port of London Authority, 
Morgan Technical Ceramics, Environment Agency and Bon Prix. 
 
Client revenue in each sector in 2010-11 was as follows (prior year in brackets): 
 
Energy     27% (14%) 
Consumer and retail    17% (22%) 
Public sector     15% (23%) 
Transport      12% (16%) 
Housing and property    7% (8%) 
Leisure and hospitality   6% (4%) 
Professional and business services 6% (7%) 
Education     5% (1%) 
Industry and technology   5% (5%) 
 
Sectorally, the largest revenue falls were: the public sector ( 1.26m in 2009-10 to  0.65m in 2010-11) and 
consumer and retail ( 1.21m in 2009-10 to  0.75m in 2010-11).  
 
Public sector revenue was adversely affected by the Government's decision to reorganise the NHS, which led 
to many projects being put on hold. There is, however, an ongoing need and legal requirement for NHS bodies 
to communicate with their stakeholders, and we are now seeing activity increase again, though not yet to 
previous levels. 
 
Revenue from the consumer and retail sector is also showing signs of recovery as a result of winning new 
clients (such as Optos, Red Hot Buffet and Curvissa) and new projects from existing clients (Drambuie, Bon 
Prix and Primula Cheese). 
 
We are also well placed to take advantage of growth opportunities in transport, property, leisure and 
hospitality, industry and technology, professional services and education, particularly colleges and universities. 
 
The Group's energy sector clients include National Grid, E.On and Scottish Power. While this sector has 
strong growth potential generally, we are seeing a reduction in projects from National Grid and have budgeted 
for revenue from this client to decline in the current year. 
 
The company reduced its employee count from 79 (76 FTE) on 1 September 2010 to 63 (60 FTE) on 31 
August 2011. Annual revenue per average full time employee was  69,111 as compared with  68,445 in the 
prior year.  The Group is making greater use of retained consultants and freelancers to give it more flexibility in 
managing fluctuating revenue levels while also maintaining service quality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S & CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2011 
 
5 
Strategy 
 
The Board's strategy is to deliver organic growth, firstly, by playing to the existing strengths of the Group and, 
secondly, by identifying innovations that will meet emerging market opportunities. 
 
The four major strengths the Group is prioritising are: 
 
  The capacity to offer integrated online and offline communication campaigns from its own resources, 
including a dedicated social media team and the ability to produce broadcast quality video (see 
www.freshwatercreative-uk.com) 
  Expertise in stakeholder communication and Public Affairs, particularly for energy, transport and NHS 
clients 
  A distinctive consumer offering  - to be re-launched as F5brands - that combines a presence in every 
nation and region of the UK with integrated online and offline marketing expertise 
  The competitive advantage of being the only PR agency with teams in all four capitals of the UK 
 
The above strengths give the Group a wide range of selling opportunities in the diverse sectoral markets in 
which it operates. At the same time, they are supplemented by proven expertise in specialisms such as crisis 
communications, media training, event management and policy conferences. 
 
The Group has also identified a number of innovative  products' that are at different stages of development 
and will add new revenue streams to the existing consultancy model. These include: social media audits, 
MERIT media evaluation, online press office, online stakeholder consultation and political/policy intelligence 
briefings. 
 
Meanwhile, Freshwater's conference business, Waterfront, which has a strong reputation for high quality 
policy events in the transport sector, now has a strategy of diversifying into other policy areas, extending its 
geographical footprint, using online channels and re-packaging content. 
 
Outlook 
 
In the first quarter of the current year (September - November 2011), the Group as a whole is trading 
profitably and has seen a small revenue increase compared to the final quarter of 2010-11.  
 
This is particularly encouraging because the growth has come from diverse sources rather than a single major 
project and includes new business successes in our hard hit healthcare, public affairs and consumer divisions. 
 
The company's growth strategy will not achieve all its goals quickly or easily. It could also be hampered by 
uncertainties and negative developments in the global economy. Nevertheless, the Board is confident that the 
business is robust and can deliver positive results in the current year.  
 
We are grateful to senior managers and all the staff for their hard work, commitment and professionalism in 
exceptionally difficult circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
 
Steve Howell     David Howell 
Chief Executive     Chairman 
 
22 December 2011    
 
 