 06
Chairman's Statement
Strong financial results and an 
increased focus on sustainability
201 1 was an exceptional year for precious metals miners. Gold and 
silver prices increased by 28. 1% and 7 4.4% respectively over 2010 
figures as a result of strong investment demand for both metals, 
as well as growing industrial uses for silver . 
While the latter part of the year saw greater volatility and concern 
about the fundamentals supporting these prices, I believe that 
global financial instability and demand for silver in technology 
applications is likely to support continued demand.
Against this backdrop of a favourable price environment, Fresnillo plc 
continued to strengthen its operations and deliver on development 
projects, resulting in increased gold and stable silver production. 
This included the start-up of the Saucito mine, which was delivered 
on schedule and under budget. In July the President of Mexico, 
Felipe Calder n, joined in the dedication of this new mine, which 
will become an important contributor to the growth of Fresnillo plc. 
Cost control measures and efficiency gains in the year also 
contributed to our competitive cash-cost position. 
Substantial progress was made at exploration projects, enhancing 
our already robust resource base. The Group's production and 
project delivery schedule is on track to meet our revised growth 
targets. Having already exceeded our original goal for attributable 
gold production, set at the time of the IPO, of 400,000 ounces by 
2018, our aim now is to grow this level of production to 500,000 
attributable ounces of gold by that time, as well as 65 million 
attributable ounces of silver , with 5.0 million ounces of gold and 
650 million ounces of silver in reserves. These figures exclude 
the potential contribution from Orisyvo, an advanced exploration 
project in Chihuahua, that while large and promising has special 
technical and logistical challenges. 
Fresnillo plc achieved adjusted revenue
4
 of US$2,307 .4 million, 
up 56.6% over 2010, and EBITDA
5
 of US$1,538.5 million, up 62.8%. 
Attributable net profit, excluding the Silverstream revaluation 
effects, was US$787 .3 million, up 48.3%
6
. 
The Board is committed to prudent financial policies to ensure 
sufficient investment capital even under more conservative price 
scenarios. With US$684.9 million in cash and no debt on the balance 
sheet as of 31 December 201 1, our capital funding options remain 
flexible for exploration and development, pursuing potential 
acquisitions and returning dividends to shareholders.
Metals prices will remain volatile until global macroeconomic 
imbalances are properly addressed. The approach of our Board is 
to take the long view, with a value creation strategy that does not 
change with unpredictable short-term shifts in the market. Thus 
investing across price cycles will continue to be a hallmark of our 
strategy , as will the disciplined development of new, value-creating 
projects. Fundamental to this strategy is the social license to operate, 
which is earned by a profound and unwavering commitment to 
sustainable development and to the wellbeing of our workforce. 
Alberto Baill res 
Non-executive Chairman
The Group's strategy is aligned with our 
values of responsible and sustainable business 
practices. Reserve replenishment and exploration 
will continue to underpin our long-term growth, 
while operational developments will be bolstered 
by a stronger safety framework and the full 
integration of our new Enterprise Risk 
Management approach.  07
Fresnillo plc
Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements
Investment in safety
US$5.2m +20.9% 
2010: US$4.3m
Dividend
US$786.9m +311.8% 
2010: US$191. 1m
4
 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement 
adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges. 
5
 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
is calculated as gross profit plus depreciation less administrative, selling 
and exploration expenses.
6
 Information on the revaluation effects of the Silverstream Contract can be 
found on page 86. 
As Chairman I consider my greatest responsibilities to be ensuring 
that Fresnillo plc is governed with transparency and in the interest 
of all shareholders, and that the Group's strategy is aligned with 
our values of responsible and sustainable business practices. 
I focused on a number of governance issues this year , as laid out 
in this Report, but none more important than in the areas of safety 
and risk management. 
The Board and I are deeply concerned and saddened to report the 
fatalities that occurred during the year . We see this as a serious 
and unacceptable situation. In addition to the actions taken by 
management, which are discussed in detail on pages 68-69 , safety 
issues continue to receive Board priority and we consider it of critical 
importance that the entire organisation reinforces its commitment 
to the target of zero fatalities. The Board's Health, Safety , Environment 
and Community Relations (HSECR) Committee oversaw the 
investigation of the accidents, including the appointment of 
third-party reviews. The Committee also re-examined the Group's 
safety policies and training procedures, made recommendations 
to the Executive Committee, and is monitoring the implementation 
of new practices. While progress is clearly being made, one fatality 
has already been reported in 2012; we must continue to work 
diligently to improve our performance.
I have always believed that the pursuit of profits can never justify 
unethical business practices. I fully endorse the anti-corruption 
policies adopted by the Board this year in anticipation of the 
requirements of the UK Bribery Act. Management have been 
putting in place the necessary procedures and policies, including 
amendments to our Code of Conduct.
Partly in response to the new requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and partly to embed a new Enterprise Risk 
Management approach into the Fresnillo Group, we undertook an 
extensive review to explicitly define our risk appetite and tolerance 
in achieving the Group's strategic objectives. I am pleased to see 
broad support for this process across the organisation as I believe 
it strengthens our controls and risk-awareness culture.
This year the Board also commissioned an independent review of 
Board effectiveness, conducted by Independent Audit Ltd., as part 
of our own continuous progress. The report was positive in general 
and we are evaluating the findings to improve future board practice.
The sustained success of our business is dependent on having 
the right people on our team at all levels of the organisation: 
those with the skills, experience, responsibility and determination 
to help the Company achieve its goals. Fresnillo plc has been at the 
forefront of opening the doors of employment to people in Mexico, 
including women, who have not traditionally held jobs in the mining 
industry. Increasing the diversity of our workforce on the basis of 
merit, as we have done over the past ten years, demonstrates 
our attention to this issue. I am also committed to greater diversity 
at the Board level, and this objective will be given due consideration 
in future appointments. 
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 40.0 US cents 
per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 23 May 201 2 to shareholders 
on the register on 27 April 2012. The dividend will be paid in UK 
pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. 
This is in addition to the US$300 million second interim dividend, 
equivalent to 41.85 US cents per Ordinary Share, declared in 
December 201 1 following a close review of the Group's financial 
liquidity and future cash requirements.
Looking ahead to 2012, despite uncertainty in the financial and 
commodity markets, we anticipate that Fresnillo plc will continue 
to strengthen its precious metals position with the commissioning 
of the new Noche Buena gold mine, the construction of the 
dynamic leaching plant at Herradura and the ramp-up of silver 
production at Saucito. While our ore resource inventory is strong, 
reserve replenishment and exploration of new projects will continue 
to underpin our long-term growth strategy . Operational developments 
will be bolstered by a stronger safety and sustainability framework, 
as well as the full integration of our new Enterprise Risk 
Management approach.
The Board has authorised a risk capital investment in exploration 
budget of US$360.4 million for 2012, which is a 36.5% increase over 
the original guidance for 2012, and 101.3% greater than the 201 1 
expenditure, reflecting our confidence that such investments today 
are vital to the long-term growth of the Group. 
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their service 
and contribution in the year . And on behalf of the Board I extend my 
deepest gratitude to our people for their hard work and commitment 
to delivering results year after year . 
Alberto Baill res
Non-executive Chairman 08 Fresnillo plc
Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements
09
Strategic Review
With world-class assets and a strong organic 
growth pipeline, we are positioned to capitalise 
on continued demand for silver and gold, 
delivering value across precious metals cycles 
and maintaining our position as a leading 
precious metals producer.
Chief Executive Officer's Report 10
Market Overview 16
Our Business Model 20
Our Strategy and KPIs 26
Our Risk Management Framework 36
Fresnillo Our flagship Fresnillo mine has been in near continuous 
operation since 1554 and is the world's largest primary silver mine, 
producing approximately 2.8% of global silver output in 201 1. 
We continue to maximise the potential of this operation in a 
sustainable way.