 4 Frontier IP Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
Frontier IP has made good progress during the year ended 30 June 2012 with helping its existing portfolio
companies to deploy their technologies and with deepening and extending its relationships within its three
university partnerships. The Company has also continued to develop new opportunities in the year, including
a fund management agreement with Narec Capital Limited (Narec Capital ) and a first collaboration venture
with the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan ). We saw some slippage in the receipt of equity and in
completing two licence agreements which impacted results for the year. However, the completion of the
delayed licence agreements remains underway and the equity from several new spin-outs was received in the
first quarter of the new financial year. 
The new financial year to 30 June 2013 has started well and the Company is benefiting from a high level of
activity across its business. The Company has added three new spin-out companies to its portfolio since the
start of July 2012 and, in particular, in August we were very pleased to enter into a new collaboration agreement
with the University of Dundee, alongside the existing long term partnership.
Results
Revenue from services showed a small increase to  162,000 (2011:  158,000). T otal revenue of  223,000 was
lower than the prior year (2011:  307,000) due to a smaller increase in value of the Group's portfolio holdings
and slippage in the receipt of equity from several new spin-outs into the new financial year as well as a delay
in the completion of two licence agreements. With a 5% increase in administrative expenses due to higher
personnel costs, the loss before tax was  380,000 (2011: loss of  269,000). The loss per share was 5.45p
(2011: 3.86p).
Cash balances stood at  44,000 at 30 June 2012 (2011:  582,000). Net assets per share as at 30 June 2012
were 36.0p (2011: 41.4p). On 3 December 2012, the Company completed a placing of 608,000 new ordinary
shares of 10p each at 10p per share (the Placing ) raising  608,000 gross of expenses.
Operational Review
The Group now has three university partnerships, with University of Dundee, Robert Gordon University,
Aberdeen and Plymouth University. We believe that there is a broad range of significant commercial
opportunities across these three partnerships and, in the short to medium term, we will be focusing our
attention on exploring and developing these.
The Group received equity in three new spin-out companies during the year, Glycobiochem Ltd, Kinetic
Discovery Ltd and Alusid Ltd.
Glycobiochem Ltd, a spin-out from University of Dundee, markets a software product called PRODRG, which
is designed to generate three-dimensional models of chemicals for use in applications such as rational drug
design, as well as a range of innovative molecular and chemical tools developed specifically for research into
carbohydrate processing enzymes. The Group currently holds approximately 5% of the issued share capital
of the company.
Kinetic Discovery Ltd, another spin-out from University of Dundee, is a drug discovery services company which
specialises in biosensor based screening. It has a spread of international customers including many of the
major pharmaceutical companies, and is already trading profitably. Kinetic Discovery Ltd is embedded within
the University of Dundee, enabling it to continue to benefit from university facilities. This embedded  approach
is one which we are looking to develop further across our partnerships. The Group currently holds
approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the company.
Our equity holding in spin-out company Alusid Ltd arose from our collaboration with UCLan which was agreed
in June with UCLan's Silicate Research Unit. Alusid Ltd is a spin-out with UCLan and was formed just prior to
the year end. The company will licence and commercialise the process to transform waste materials into a
highly durable and functional material with applications in the construction industry. The material has been
exhibited at a number of international design shows where it was well received. The Group currently has a
beneficial ownership of 21% of the issued share capital of the company.
After the year end, Frontier IP was allotted equity in a further three spin-out companies, Tissue Repair
Technologies Ltd, Ex Scientia Ltd and PoreXpert Limited.  5 Frontier IP Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Tissue Repair Technologies Ltd is a spin-out from University of Dundee. The company develops novel wound
healing agents based on migration stimulating factor, a naturally occurring protein, which Tissue Repair
Technologies Ltd believes has particular application in patients with impaired healing, such as diabetics. The
Group currently holds approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the company.
Ex Scientia Ltd, a spin-out from University of Dundee, has been formed to exploit novel informatics and
experimental methods to enable new, more effective ways of conducting drug discovery. The Group currently
holds approximately 5.75% of the issued share capital of the company.
PoreXpert Ltd, a new spin-out from Plymouth University, was formed to accelerate the commercialisation
activity of the Environmental and Fluid Modelling Group at Plymouth which provides software and consultancy
for modelling porous systems. The company is now establishing distribution channels for a new version of its
software released this month. The Group currently holds approximately 15% of the issued share capital of the
company.
In June 2012, we were pleased to announce that we had signed an agreement with Narec Capital, the provider
of consultancy and finance services to companies in the renewable energy sector. The agreement confirms
Narec Capital's intention to appoint Frontier IP as its provider of fund management and administration services
to a portfolio of renewable energy funds which it plans to launch later this year. The focus of this funding
initiative will be on providing early-stage capital in order to accelerate the deployment and reduce the cost per
megawatt hour of renewable energy technologies and projects emerging from sources including utilities,
manufacturers, universities and research centres. Narec is currently investing over  150m of public and private
finance to establish the UK's offshore renewable innovation facilities. 
Once the funds are established, under the terms of the agreement, Frontier IP will receive fees arising from
the introduction of investors and the provision of fund management services to the funds as well as investment
deal fees and carried interest from the funds under management. We expect the benefits arising from the
agreement to be reflected in current financial year, to 30 June 2013. In line with existing arrangements, certain
regulated activities will be provided through Sigma T echnology Management Limited, the FSA authorised and
regulated subsidiary of Sigma Capital Group plc, a shareholder in the Company.
In August 2012, we entered into a Collaboration Agreement with University of Dundee. This is in addition to
our existing spin-out commercialisation Relationship Agreement. The objective of this new collaboration is for
Frontier IP and the University of Dundee to work together to define, agree and, as appropriate, establish a
vehicle which funds the exploitation of commercial drug development opportunities arising from the Drug
Discovery Unit at University of Dundee (DDU ). The DDU was founded in 2006 in the university's College of
Life Sciences, with the aim of translating basic science into lead compounds to validate putative drug targets,
to use as tools to investigate disease pathways and, when appropriate, advance to pre-clinical drug candidates.
The Board
In December 2011, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Andrew Richmond as a Non-Executive
Director, replacing Tim Cockroft. Andrew brings highly relevant experience to our business, having significant
experience of the healthcare, stockbroking and private equity industries. He is also a Lay Member of the Court
of the University of Dundee.
On 3 December 2012, Graham Barnet stood down as a non-executive Director of the Company. On behalf of
the Board, I should like to thank Graham for his contribution to the Board during an important stage in the
Company's growth.
On 3 December 2012, we were delighted to welcome Marcus Yeoman as a non-executive Director. Marcus
brings a wealth of experience in advising young growth companies, both private and AIM-listed. 
The Company has also re-organised its Board with the appointment of Andrew Richmond as non-executive
Chairman, Neil Crabb to Chief Executive and Jackie McKay and David Cairns are now Chief Operating Officer
and Portfolio Director respectively.
Outlook
While the wider economic backdrop continues to be challenging, we are encouraged by the level of activity
since the start of the new financial year. Our additional collaboration with University of Dundee has extended
that relationship and we are excited by the potential opportunity this offers in the longer term. 6 Frontier IP Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
The recent growth in the number of portfolio companies represents an opportunity for us to take on advisory
roles and we expect to extend this approach to a number of our portfolio companies.
We are also seeing developments in our historic portfolio. In particular, Nandi Proteins Limited (Nandi ), the
Heriot Watt University spin-out, has recently made significant progress with a number of major food companies
towards the licensing and adoption of its protein technology. Subject to Nandi concluding licence terms, we
expect to recover the significant ongoing advisory fees that are being accrued, which have been provided
against to date, as well as an uplift in valuation, and we continue to work with the company to assist in the
development of its business.
In addition, we are looking forward to furthering our work with Narec Capital and UCLan during the current
financial year.
In summary, we believe that Frontier IP will be well placed to make further progress and the Board remains
confident about the opportunities for growth in the new financial year and beyond.
Andrew Richmond
Chairman
6 December 2012
Chairman's Statement (Continued)