 Fusion Oil & Gas plc annual report 2003
02
Chairman's report
During the last year Fusion has made significant progress on all fronts, realising value in Mauritania, building a significant
exploration base, strengthening its financial position and creating a potentially prolific revenue stream for the future. 
Highlights 
More specifically, we achieved:
 A pre-tax profit of  3.22 million after including 
profit on the partial sale of subsidiary undertakings 
of  4.23 million.
 Basic earnings per share of 3.31p.
  At 30 June 2003,  7.37 million cash at bank.
  Successful appraisal of the 2001 Chinguetti oil
discovery and a further oil and gas discovery on the
Banda prospect in the Mauritanian PSC B licence.
  Completion of the farm-out of two deepwater licences
to subsidiaries of Amerada Hess Corporation (Hess ).
  Announcement of a multi-asset deal with Premier Oil plc
(Premier ) which involves: 
- Receipt of an initial payment of US$10 million; 
future cash payments and production royalties 
from the Mauritania licences, 
-Premier's participation in our two Gabon licences, 
- an option for Fusion to participate in Premier's two
Guinea Bissau licences and 
-an option for Premier to participate in any future 
licences awarded to Fusion offshore Western 
Sahara (Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic) 
on a promoted basis.
Corporate activity
In May 2003, Fusion announced that it had entered into
an agreement with Premier in relation to West African
licence interests in Mauritania, Gabon, Saharawi Arab
Democratic Republic (SADR ) and Guinea Bissau. 
This comprehensive transaction allowed Fusion to
maximise value prior to onset of development
expenditure, whilst simultaneously accelerating its drilling
programme and maintaining shareholder gearing to future
exploration success across the whole portfolio. 
Under the terms of the transaction Fusion received an
immediate cash consideration of US $10 million, and will
receive additional payments in the event that further
exploration successes with reserves of greater than 50
million barrels in the Mauritanian licences are declared to
be commercial. Fusion will also receive a royalty interest
over all future production from its two Mauritanian
offshore licences, including existing discoveries. This
royalty payment has the potential to be a very material
revenue stream for Fusion.
The transaction also included an opportunity for Premier
to participate in Fusion's two Gabon licences, an option
for Fusion to participate in Premier's two Guinea Bissau
licences and an option for Premier to participate in any
future licences awarded to Fusion offshore Western
Sahara (SADR) on a promoted basis.
The net benefit of the deal is to position Fusion for an
active, high-impact exploration drilling programme across
its portfolio over the next 18-24 months. During this time
it will have direct and indirect participation in the drilling of
at least 6 and possibly more than 15 exploration wells.
On 19 September 2003, Westmount Energy Limited
announced that it had sold its wholly owned subsidiary,
Westmount Resources Limited, which is the beneficial
owner of 20,000,000 Ordinary shares in the Company
and 500,000 Partly Paid shares in Fusion Oil & Gas NL,
to Sterling Energy plc ( Sterling').
On 25 September 2003, Sterling Energy plc ( Sterling')
announced its intention to make an offer for the
Company. On the same date, your Board of Directors
announced that the terms of the offer undervalued the
Company and lacked rationale. On 1 October 2003,
Sterling issued an offer document and on 13 October
2003 your Board of Directors issued a Circular to
shareholders recommending that they take no further
action while a better deal or offer was sought.
Financial
The Fusion business model has, since the IPO in
September 2000, consistently been to add value through
the application of innovative geoscience and to realise
early, optimum value for shareholders before significant
capital investment is required. That is exactly what has
been done in Mauritania and by the farm-outs to Hess and
Premier. These deals have resulted in Fusion being carried
through future costs (a form of finance without reverting
to shareholders or loans) and receiving cash payments. 
On 20 September 2002, the Company placed 4.5 million
new shares at 45p per share with institutional investors
on a non-underwritten basis to raise  2.0 million in
additional working capital. At the end of the reporting
period, the Company had funds available of  7.37 million.
Licence interests
  Mauritania
In Mauritania, Fusion has agreed a sliding scale royalty
interest covering all future production from the PSC A
and B licences. Having proven the potential of this
acreage, the Company has no further exposure to the
considerable capital requirements to explore and develop
subsequent discoveries that may be made. Assuming
development of the Chinguetti Field goes ahead, that
there are reserves estimated by Fusion of 148 million 03
www.fusionoil.com
Chairman's report
barrels, and assuming an oil price in the range of US$22
to 25 per barrel the royalty could generate US$13 million
in royalty revenue for the Group over the life of the field.
The Chinguetti Field is currently anticipated to begin
production during 2005 at an initial rate of 75,000 barrels
of oil per day.
The 2003 drilling campaign in Mauritania commenced on
4 September 2003 when the Chinguetti-4-5 appraisal/
early development well was spudded. This well has been
placed on an extended production test and is planned to
be completed as a producer pending commissioning of
field facilities in 2005. The second well in this campaign
will be a test of the Tertiary aged Tiof prospect some
25km to the north of the Chinguetti discovery which will
be followed by a well on the Cretaceous aged Poune
prospect. Fusion will retain exposure to all future
exploration success in PSC A and PSC B at no additional
cost to the Company. 
  AGC - Deep water
In the deepwater licences of the AGC area (the joint
development zone between Senegal and Guinea Bissau),
Fusion has acquired two large 3D seismic surveys in its
Croix du Sud and Cheval Marin licences that have
confirmed the presence of a highly structured deepwater
basin with numerous potential reservoir fairways. Based
on current Fusion estimates, the total unrisked resource
in these two permits is in excess of 800 million barrels
net to the Company. This resource assessment will be
revised following a thorough evaluation of the 3D datasets.
Fusion has been carried through the cost of the 3D seismic
in Croix du Sud by Hess who will elect whether or not 
to continue with the farm-in. If they elect to do so, Hess
must fund the cost of the first two wells drilled in the
Croix du Sud licence capped at US $22.5 million per well
and all other licence expenditure until completion of the
second well to secure their equity interest.
  Cameroon
The other deepwater licence in the Company's portfolio 
is in Cameroon where Fusion has been carried by Hess
through the acquisition of a large 3D seismic survey. The
survey has confirmed the prospectivity identified by the
earlier 2D seismic survey. The current unrisked resource
assessment by Fusion for identified prospects is in
excess of 370 million barrels net to the Company. In
November, Hess must elect whether to continue with the
farm-in. To do this Hess must fund the cost of the first
two wells in the Ntem licence capped at US $15 million
per well and all other licence expenditure until completion
of the second well. 
  Gabon
In Gabon, Premier will earn an equity position by carrying
most of Fusion's costs in up to two wells on each of our
two licences. These licences contain prospects estimated
by Fusion to have an unrisked resource in excess of 
200 million barrels net to the Company. This estimate will
be refined, and specific drilling locations will be selected
after processing of two 3D seismic surveys which is due
to be completed in early 2004.
  Others (AGC - Shallow water, Guinea Bissau,
Western Sahara)
Elsewhere, Fusion has an 85% working interest in the
AGC shallow water Dome Flore licence where substantial
oil potential exists. A new 3D seismic survey is being
evaluated prior to seeking partners. In a nearby area of
Guinea Bissau, Fusion has a 5% back-in option on
Premier's Sinapa and Esperanca licences, where at least
one well is expected to be drilled in the near future.
These options have had a low profile within the overall
Fusion portfolio, being relatively recent agreements.
However, the potential resource, net to the Company,
after an anticipated dilution of Fusion's interest in Dome
Flore alone, is estimated to be in excess of 200 million
barrels. This resource assessment will be revised
following completion of the processing of the Dome Flore
3D seismic survey later this year.
Finally, offshore Western Sahara (SADR) Fusion has
finished a technical review which entitles the Company to
apply for up to three large exploration licences, award of
which would be contingent upon the SADR being
recognised as an independent nation by the United
Nations. Premier have an option to farm-in to any such
awards on a promoted basis.
Outlook
The high-grading of our licence portfolio and funding 
of much of our near and medium term exploration is
principally due to the skill of our staff. They have
identified new prospectivity on under-explored acreage
and been able to demonstrate this, by high quality work,
to substantial companies who have been prepared to pay
a premium to participate in future exploration. Their
efforts are the core competence of the Company which 
I am very pleased to acknowledge.
As a result of this work, Fusion finds itself in a very
strong position and anticipates participation in at least 
6 and in possibly more than 15 wells over the next two
years. The majority of these wells will be free-carried as 
a result of the Hess and Premier deals. We have
sufficient working capital for 18 to 24 months and
gearing to all future success in Mauritania at no cost
(exploration or development) in addition to a proactive
new ventures programme. With the favourable exploration
success rates established in West Africa, it would be
reasonable to expect further discoveries to be made in
which Fusion will have significant levels of equity.
Following the successful completion of the transactions
with Hess and Premier and given the stage of Fusion's
development, your Board of Directors has resolved to
increasingly focus on extracting the value that has been
established in the Company's assets, for the benefit of 
all Shareholders.
A notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the
Company will be sent to shareholders in due course.
Peter Dolan
Chairman
15 October 2003