 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Alkane Energy plc Business Review
10 To find out more details of our business go to: www.alkane.co.uk
Alkane has continued its strategy of 
building power plants to provide solid 
financial returns over the life cycle of the 
asset, and we have pressed on with our 
investment programme whilst many in the 
industry have paused due to economic, 
 green policy' and regulatory uncertainty. 
The Board believes that Alkane is well 
placed to deliver further growth for our 
shareholders.
In addition, the acquisition of our major 
competitor Greenpark Energy Limited 
( Greenpark') in April 2012 has provided us 
with a step change in scale in both sides  
of our generating business. The assets 
have now been integrated into Alkane's 
operating regime and output has increased 
from the portfolio of acquired sites. 
Consequently we are now expecting the 
returns to be ahead of those set when we 
acquired the business.
The UK electricity market is facing a period 
of fundamental change as the Government 
grapples with its aims of securing low  
cost, cleaner power sources. Older reliable 
coal and nuclear power plants are being 
decommissioned and will need replacing, 
requiring a significant industry re-investment 
programme. The Government is seeking  
to ensure a diversified energy mix but this 
means they are trying to design multifaceted 
programmes in nuclear, the renewable 
sector and a gas strategy with a developing 
shale interest. Many of these initiatives and 
conflicts are being dealt with in the Energy 
Bill currently before parliament but are  
only being addressed after a period of 
underinvestment by the industry.
The Ofgem/National Grid supply report 
published in November 2012 highlighted 
the developing  energy gap' with limited 
new plant being built. This gives an 
increased likelihood of power cuts with 
this risk potentially materialising as early  
as 2015. As a small and nimble power 
generator Alkane is well positioned to 
maximise its output and provide additional 
power when needed.
Energy is the essence of life. Every day 
you decide how you're going to use it, by 
having a clear strategy and what it takes to 
reach that goal, and by maintaining focus.  
Although Oprah Winfrey (with apologies) 
was referring to personal endeavour I 
believe this quotation captures the ethos 
of Alkane.
The team has a clear vision and whilst  
others in the energy industry have been 
procrastinating, the Company has been 
investing in and working hard to deliver 
increased capacity to help capitalise on 
opportunities in this fast-changing industry.
I am delighted in my first Chairman's 
Statement to report continued growth and 
another record year for Alkane. For the 
eighth consecutive year we have increased 
output and revenue. Trading has been very 
encouraging with Group revenue up by 
54% to  14.7m (2011:  9.5m), adjusted 
EBITDA up by 37% to  6.3m (2011:  4.6m), 
and adjusted profit before tax up by 44%  
at  2.9m (2011:  2.0m). The adjustment 
made is for the  587k of exceptional 
administrative expenses, as detailed in the 
Finance Review on page 15. The Board is 
recommending that a dividend of 0.1 pence 
per share be paid.
Alkane is now the UK's largest CMM 
operator, providing predictable base load 
capacity and a power response business 
able to supplement the system when 
demand peaks or intermittent power supply 
from wind or solar projects is not available. 
We are continuing to build a presence in 
power response, utilising our existing asset 
base, and the team is also taking on new 
challenges in drilling our first onshore 
natural gas well. We have a growing 
reputation in DBO, supplying power facilities 
to the biogas industry. Also under the DBO 
banner we have secured a one-off contract 
to carry out restoration work on two 
abandoned natural gas wells on one of our 
licence areas. Looking further out, we have 
started an appraisal of our licence position 
to review opportunities that may exist in 
CMM, CBM, conventional and shale gas.
Chairman's Statement
  The Board believes that Alkane is well 
placed to deliver further growth for our 
shareholders.
Roger McDowell 
Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Alkane Energy plc Business Review
11
Expansion of CMM 
portfolio with the 
opening of a new 
site at Gedling.
Acquisition of 
Greenpark Energy 
including 7 licences, 
3 operational CMM 
projects and a 
21MW power 
response business.
Planning permission 
granted and work 
started on first 
natural gas site  
at Nooks Farm, 
Staffordshire.
Received contracts 
for new power 
plants for biogas 
projects worth  4m 
including combined 
heat and power 
plant at Dagenham.
Record output 
of 167GWh achieved, 
eighth successive
year of growth.
Events
2012
This extended period of growth in 
Alkane's output coincided with John 
Lander's appointment to the Group as 
Chairman in 2004. John retired from the 
Board in November 2012 and I am keen to 
continue and build upon the platform that 
he has established at Alkane. I would like 
to take this opportunity to express our 
thanks to John for his efforts in leading the 
Company. He has nurtured and expanded 
the skills within the team and the Group 
now has an unrivalled knowledge base  
in our core operations. This expertise is 
matched by the enthusiasm and dedication 
of the team in delivering on-going growth 
and major projects such as the acquisition 
of Greenpark.
Strategy
Alkane's core skills are the development, 
design and build of mid-sized gas to 
power plants. We use modular, remotely 
managed engines and plant to ensure our 
sites remain cost effective and flexible.
We have a clear strategy in place to exploit 
the opportunities in a power generation 
market where 25% of industry capacity is 
scheduled to be retired in the next decade. 
The Department of Energy and Climate 
Change ( DECC') published its Energy Bill in 
November 2012, setting out its key 
aims to ensure security of supply, to 
decarbonise power generation, and to 
provide customers with cost effective 
electricity supply.
Our production sites incorporate base  
load (running 24 hours per day) CMM 
generation together with our mains gas 
fuelled power response operations which 
run at peak times in winter and provide 
short term operating reserve ( STOR') to 
National Grid as standby operations during 
the balance of the year.
Following the acquisition of Greenpark 
and Alkane's own organic growth we now 
operate from 16 CMM sites, which is the 
UK's largest CMM portfolio. Once a 
project is established we would expect 
high EBITDA margins and payback periods 
of circa three to four years for a typical 
site. Like any natural resource, the  
CMM gas will decline over time, and 
consequently we tailor generating capacity 
on site to run for around a decade.  
To maintain and grow output Alkane 
needs to have a development pipeline  
of future projects and we have a strong 
development programme with more than 
ten projects currently being progressed.
National Grid, Ofgem and DECC are 
forecasting the need for an expansion of 
electricity standby facilities, and they have 
highlighted the increased risk of energy 
shortages over the coming years. We 
believe that Alkane is ideally placed to take 
advantage of these trends with its strong 
operational focus and power response 
capability. We have ready-made power 
response sites available by re-using surplus 
capacity from the CMM operations. We 
can use the existing generators and grid 
connections and simply change the fuel 
source to mains gas.
Alkane's strengths in deploying power 
assets allow us to design, build and 
operate facilities for other users of 
containerised power plant. This includes 
supply to the biogas market, where our 
order intake in 2012 was  4m, and to 
other oil and gas onshore operators, 
where we secured a one-off contract  
to restore two gas wells for a previous 
operator on one of our licences. Our DBO 
offering to third party clients is a route  
to expanding the scale and range of our 
project management, maintenance and 
operational resources. This helps to cover 
our cost base and boost Group profitability.
DECC and HM Treasury have set out 
proposals for a wide reaching Gas Strategy 
and they are establishing operational 
regulations for the exploration for shale. 
Alkane owns the rights to 823km
2
 of UK 
Onshore PEDLs since being awarded its 
first licence in 1996. With the successful 
exploitation of CMM resources the 
Company has been able to fulfil the initial 
development requirements from DECC and 
has secured the licences over much of the 
acreage for up to 31 years. We control 
exploitation rights over all hydrocarbons 
(CMM, CBM, conventional gas, shale gas 
and shale oil) in our 21 licences, with the 
exception of five where resources other than 
CMM are excluded. We have commenced 
an early stage exercise to evaluate our 
licences and the development options  
open to us in relation to shale reserves.
People
The Board would like to take this 
opportunity to thank our staff and 
suppliers who are an essential part  
of the success of Alkane.
Prospects
The UK electricity market is facing a period 
of significant investment in generation  
and grid assets in order to address the 
challenges highlighted by DECC. An 
energy gap is looming as early as the 
winter of 2015/2016 requiring additional 
and responsive generators.
Alkane is responding to these 
opportunities both with cost effective 
domestically sourced baseload generation 
and with fast response, flexible power 
response operations. We have seen a step 
change in our scale with the successful 
acquisition and integration of Greenpark.
With no reliance on government subsidy 
for our business we have continued to 
invest and grow on a sound financial basis 
without the need to pause whilst DECC 
finalise their industry plans.
We look forward to another year of 
progress in 2013 with a backdrop of rising 
market prices and a tightening of the 
supply side of the electricity industry.
Roger McDowell 
Chairman