 04 F W Thorpe Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Turnover for the year ended 30 June 2007 was  46.5m as
compared to  44.2m for the corresponding period last year,
an increase of 5%. Operating profit after exceptional items
was  8.2m, this being a rise of 20% over last year's  6.9m.
Interest receivable and other income also improved 53% to
deliver a resultant profit before tax of  9.1m, being an
increase of 22% compared to the year ended 30 June 2006.
Trading throughout the year has been encouraging with all
group companies, bar Sugg Lighting Ltd, turning in improved
performances. Performance drivers remain the development
of good new innovative products and their availability for our
sales force to sell, together with a desire to broaden the
markets in which we can operate successfully. We have many
and varied good lighting products and systems but need to
establish a greater coverage of existing sales areas and
develop more new territories to capitalise on the market
potential of these products. If we are not there to sell them,
customers cannot buy them! The two largest companies in
the group, Thorlux and Mackwell, generate relatively strong
export sales and steps are being taken by both companies to
widen their coverage. The smaller companies in the group
export little but have made progress in improving coverage
within the UK.
In general, our companies continue also to formulate,
design, manufacture and market new products. Some new
designs are updates of existing products, some are new
products to capitalise on new lighting technologies such as
LED (light emitting diode) light sources, and some are more
 euro style' product ranges not only to assist with our drive
abroad but also to Europeanise  our general product
offering. More competition on our own UK market now
originates from within greater Europe, and this competition
has successfully been implanting European ideas on lighting
into the UK market.
Investment during the year has, as last year, been at a
moderate level with Thorlux investing some  130k in
powder paint plant improvements, Mackwell spending some
 196k improving their manufacturing processes and Philip
Payne fitting out their new factory purchased just at the end
of the last financial year. Fitting out has also taken place of
the small 60 square metre office block at the back of the
Philip Payne factory which is currently being marketed as
rentable office space.
In last year's report I mentioned that our group had moved
to AIM in January 2006 and I would like to report that we are
now firmly established on the AIM market.
In view of the results detailed at the beginning of this report,
your Board recommends a final dividend of 10p per share
(2006: 9.0p) which, when added to the interim dividend
already paid, makes a total dividend per share for the year of
13.25p (2006: 12p   total interim and final dividend,
excluding the special dividend). This is an increase of 10.4%,
excluding the special dividend of 12p per share.
Thorlux Lighting
Thorlux, being the group's largest company producing
 mainline' commercial and industrial lighting equipment and
systems, progressed to another record turnover and profit,
up 4% and 11% respectively on last year.
Improved sales performances have been achieved at Thorlux
in both home and export, of which the latter now represents
9% of total turnover up from 7% in the last financial year.
Worldwide sales rose 34%, Republic of Ireland sales
increased by 190% and Germany sales by 140%. Our German
office has increased to a strength of three due to the
addition of one full-time Salesman and with the recent
introduction of a full German language catalogue, our quest
for greater market recognition and further sales in Germany
continues. The wish to position another Thorlux employed
Salesman in another European territory has not yet
happened but the intention is crystallized and action is
imminent.
The new lighting system communicating via GPRS, and
mentioned as an imminent product addition in last year's
report, has been introduced as the Thorlux  Scanlight AT'
emergency lighting system. The system has, primarily, been
designed to use LED light sources for emergency lighting in a
system which can fulfil legal testing obligations by
interrogation for operational functionality via GPRS from
anywhere with communications access. That is, that if a
worldwide organisation equipped all its facilities with
Scanlight AT, the whole worldwide system could be
interrogated from a laptop computer on a beach in Barbados
with no requirement for costly local onsite inspection, testing,
logging, etc. This new product has taken to the market well
and is virtually fit and forget  emergency lighting.
Chairman's statement
The strength of our market depends on others having
money to spend on new health centres, office buildings,
schools, etc.   we have the products and the
enthusiasm . . .   F W Thorpe Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
Mackwell
The group's manufacturer of emergency lighting control
gear and systems also provided a record year with turnover
up 11% and profit up 43% compared to the previous year
ended 30 June 2006. Current output is stretching fixed
capacity despite the installation of some new additional
plant and some more efficient replacement plant. Further
investment may be required next year.
Mackwell's home and export markets for traditional
emergency lighting control gear remain strong although
certain markets, as expected, are showing an increasing
demand for LED emergency lighting products. Last year
LED products accounted for 1% of Mackwell's total
turnover compared to a figure of 7% of total turnover for
this year.
The company will continue to seek product opportunities
using LED technology and in other market areas outside the
normal limits of traditional emergency lighting control gear.
Compact Lighting
Compact Lighting , manufacturers of retail space lighting,
also achieved a record year with sales up 19% on the
previous year and profit up 66%. The market for retail
lighting is, as I have explained previously, somewhat volatile
and can change quicker than most other areas of lighting. If
retail spending slows, store groups can quickly slow or stop
investment in store refurbishments! This is a creditable
performance and continues the general growth pattern of
Compact's business.
Philip Payne
As mentioned in last year's report, Philip Payne moved into
its new group-owned premises in Thornhill Road, Solihull,
across the road from its previous rented building. This move
unfortunately coincided with five of the total of seventeen
staff wishing to move on, and on this point I would like to
express my thanks to the core team at Payne's for
weathering this storm and emerging into the current
comparatively blue skies. Such times tend to avert the eye
from future planning. However, the return of stability has
allowed Payne's to move forward again and with two new
exciting products about to be launched and a 100% increase
to two members of the external sales team, the possibilities
for the coming year look encouraging.
Sugg Lighting
Sugg Lighting, our troubled heritage lighting manufacturer,
has undergone another restructuring programme and now
consists of eleven people, down from 33 people at 30 June
2006. The product range on offer has also been dramatically
curtailed and the pricing structure optimised. Attributing an
actually used  proportion of the existing factory to the Sugg
management accounts and with the target sales output
being met or exceeded, indications are that Sugg Lighting
has been performing profitably for the first two months of
the new financial year where a period of profitable stability
would allow us to plan forward.
People
I would this time not only like to thank all our F W Thorpe Plc
staff for their continued loyalty and diligence throughout the
last year but also I would like to express my regret to those
Sugg Lighting staff who the company has had to make
redundant. I wish them fair weather.
On 4 October 2007 David Lippold tendered his resignation
to the group board and to the board of Compact Lighting
Ltd, the subsidiary of which he is managing director, in order
to pursue personal interests. He is expected to step down
from his appointments on 31 October 2007. David joined the
board of Compact Lighting in September 1993 and the
group board in July 1996. The board would very much like to
thank David for his contributions to Compact and the group.
His role of managing director of Compact is to be assumed
through an internal promotion.
The future
The strength of our market depends on others having
money to spend on new health centres, office buildings,
schools, etc. and as long as money availability remains, then
our potential market remains. Currently there appears to be
a large black cloud somewhere in the vicinity called the
Sub-prime mortgage market . If this cloud goes overhead
then things may get difficult but should it miss us then we
have the products and the enthusiasm for another
satisfactory year.
A B Thorpe
Chairman 11 October 2007