 Chairman's Statement 
2 Galahad Gold plc Report & Accounts 2005
Skaergaard the success of the project is dependent upon the
accessory metals like vanadium and titanium, which are in
comparatively abundant supply with consequent lower prices. With
soaring capital and energy costs, it would no longer be possible to
fund this project so your board decided to relinquish the licence and
return it to the Greenland authorities.
Northern Dynasty Minerals (NDM)
Shambhala Gold Ltd (Shambhala) invested in Northern Dynasty
Minerals (NDM) in July 2003. Galahad acquired Shambhala in
December 2003 and has since added to the investment which as at
31 December 2005 had a book value of  38.2 million. We have
two representatives on the NDM board. We were attracted to NDM
because of its ownership of the Pebble deposit in Alaska, which has
extensive gold, copper and molybdenum resources. Galahad
currently has a stake of 23.3% in NDM which on a fully diluted
basis would reduce to 21%. This stake at the market price of
C$7.85 on 18 May 2006 was worth  68.1 million.
When Galahad invested in NDM the total Inferred Resources of the
Pebble deposit were 13 million ounces of gold, 6.8 billion pounds
of copper with additional credits for molybdenum and silver at a
cut-off grade of 0.30% copper equivalent (CuEQ). Since then, there
has been substantial further drilling in the main Pebble deposit
boosting Inferred Resources and establishing Measured and
Indicated Resources. In addition, a second porphyry deposit to the
east of Pebble has added higher grade resources. The total
Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources at Pebble
confirmed by NDM to date are 64.2 million ounces of gold, 49
billion pounds of copper and 2.9 billion pounds of molybdenum at
cut-off grades of 0.30% CuEQ for Pebble West and 0.60% CuEQ
for Pebble East. The detailed analysis of these resources is shown in
the operating review pages in this report.
It is unlikely that production will commence at Pebble before 2012.
However, the Measured and Indicated Resources and Inferred
Resources now make Pebble the largest copper deposit and the
largest gold deposit in North America. In a global perspective,
expressed in terms of CuEQ, Pebble is the second largest copper-
gold porphyry deposit in the world. Not surprisingly, major mining
companies are attracted to Pebble. There are of course the usual
environmental hurdles to be overcome and financing to be
arranged but as soon as a major becomes involved the development
of the project should be accelerated. We believe that NDM shares
would then have significant potential for further appreciation.
Skaergaard
Galahad acquired its interest in Skaergaard, as well as its initial
interest in NDM, in December 2003 by acquisition of Shambhala and
its subsidiaries, paid for by issuance of Galahad shares and warrants
to the shareholders of these companies. At the date of acquisition,
based on the then prevailing Galahad share price, the market value
of the transaction and of the underlying assets was  79.1 million. By
Your board believes that metals and minerals prices, driven
by fundamental demand, will continue to remain strong
for the foreseeable future, indeed some economists
believe that we are in a commodity super-cycle. 
The reasons for this include:
1. The US is continuing to print hundreds of billions of dollars to
fund its annual current account deficit which is now an
unprecedented 7% of GDP . As a result gold, as a recognised
store of value, is becoming increasingly attractive as an
alternative currency. In this environment, there is also an
increased demand for jewellery especially for the Middle East,
India and China.
2. China's tremendous 9.9% annual GDP growth fuels its
increased annual consumption of metals and oil. For example,
from being a minor consumer of copper ten years ago, China
now accounts for 22% of world demand compared with 12%
for the US. India, with 7.5% annual GDP growth, currently
consumes about 1-2% of world copper demand with obvious
scope for a substantial increase.
3. World stocks of base metals, including copper, are at
historically low levels.
4. Many commodity prices (notably gold) are still well below
previous highs on an inflation-adjusted basis.
5. Commodities like gold and copper have been in a bear market
for two decades. Investment in exploration has therefore been
relatively minimal. As a result, there have been very few major
discoveries in recent years.
6. Capital costs for bringing new mines into production have
soared due to shortages of new equipment and skilled labour.
In addition, the problems and costs of dealing with growing
environmental regulatory problems often delay projects for
several years. Additional supply will therefore not be readily
available to meet growing demand on a timely basis.
7. Many existing mines are ageing with consequently lower
grades and higher costs. Strikes are also very prevalent.
For these reasons, Galahad's policy, since inception, has been to
invest in precious and base metals in companies and projects
which have established resources with production potential. To
reduce risk, Galahad has invested mainly in projects that are post-
exploration and are situated in safe political territories. The
expropriation of the properties of foreign mining companies in
Bolivia, the proposed imposition of extraordinarily penal taxes on
mining profits in Mongolia and the Yukos incident in Russia
highlight the wisdom of this policy.
The tremendous strength of precious and base metals prices
during the last twelve months has of course substantially benefited
three of Galahad's four investments. However, in the case of Galahad Gold plc Report & Accounts 2005  3
would also lead to potentially lower capital and operating costs for
the project. To further evaluate the open pit and revised project
configuration, InterMoly announced on 27 March 2006 that it would
undertake a Pre-Feasibility Study (PFS) at a cost of US$2 million to be
funded from existing financial resources and from a  2 million facility
from Galahad. Work on the PFS is already underway.
UraMin Inc (UraMin)
With the growing focus on nuclear energy as an environmentally
clean and sustainable long-term alternative, Galahad made a 
timely early-stage investment in UraMin, a privately-owned
emerging uranium company with interests in properties in Africa
and Canada. There are now 30 countries with plans to build new
reactors. In June 2005, Galahad purchased 20.3 million shares for 
a total cost of  3.7 million. In late April 2006, UraMin floated on
AIM, following which the company announced the acquisition of 
a further near-term uranium deposit in the Central African 
Republic. At the closing market price of 67p on 18 May 2006
Galahad's investment, equivalent to 11.6% of the company, was
worth  13.8 million.
Investment Summary
At current market prices, Galahad has potential pre-tax capital
profits of  29.9 million on NDM,  8 million on InterMoly and  10.1
million on UraMin. Against this, there is a book loss on Skaergaard
of  56.3 million.
Director
Mark Slater was Chairman of Galahad Capital when it acquired
Shambhala Gold by a reverse takeover in December 2003. Mark is
now resigning as a director with effect from today to pursue his
other interests. We thank him for his advice and help especially
during the transition and we wish him well. 
Future Prospects
With a very attractive portfolio and the current buoyancy of metals
and minerals prices, your board views the future with confidence.
We are particularly pleased with the progress made by NDM and
UraMin during the last year. We continue to evaluate attractive new
investment opportunities and, as appropriate, opportunities to
realise value within our portfolio.
Ian Watson
Chairman
19 May 2006
reference to this market value, a fair value adjustment of  51.5
million in excess of the book value at which it was carried by
Skaergaard Minerals Corporation, the licence holder, was attributed
to the Skaergaard mining licence in Galahad's group accounts. 
The Skaergaard deposit in Greenland contains Inferred Mineral
Resources of 10.26 million ounces of gold, 29.81 million ounces
of palladium and 1.95 million ounces of platinum. It also has
substantial deposits of vanadium contained in magnetite and
titanium in the form of ilmenite. Your board believed in the
potential of the Skaergaard deposit and in 2004 and 2005
invested a further  2.8 million to progress the project towards a
scoping study. When Galahad first started development work on
Skaergaard, we recognized that, even with increased precious
metal prices, the project would depend on additional revenues
from vanadium and titanium. We were encouraged by the strong
price of vanadium in 2005 when it reached a high of US$26 a
pound. Since then, however, the price has fallen drastically and is
currently about US$9 a pound.
Also, during the last two years, a number of titanium projects such
as Kumba in Madagascar and Moma in Mozambique are being
brought on stream eliminating the upside potential in the titanium
market. A further dramatic development is that heavy minerals like
titanium are to be recovered from the giant tar sands tailings at
Syncrude's operations in northern Canada.
In addition, like all potential mining operations, Skaergaard's
capital costs for the mine development and processing plants
soared to an estimated US$900 million. With a project like
Skaergaard, this level of capital cost would be extremely difficult
to fund especially as so little reliance can now be placed on the
future level of vanadium and titanium prices. For these reasons,
Galahad decided to relinquish its Skaergaard licence, return it to
the Greenland authorities and clear up the site. 
The value at which Skaergaard was carried on our books has now
been written off with an exceptional loss of  56.3 million
(including the  51.5 million fair value adjustment), which is
explained in more detail in Note 5 of the financial statements. The
value of Galahad shares issued in payment for Shambhala should
be an allowable expense for tax purposes which should offset
future capital gains on other Galahad investments.
International Molybdenum plc (InterMoly)
International Molybdenum plc was admitted to AIM in July 2005,
with Galahad retaining a 78% stake in the company for a cash
cost of  2.3 million. InterMoly shares closed at 14p on 18 May
2006 putting the market value of our investment at  15.1 million
against a book value of  7.1 million.
After a strategic review of alternatives with InterMoly's consultants,
an open-pit method for developing Malmbjerg has now been
identified, eliminating the need for an underground tunnel under
the plans previously considered. It is anticipated that this approach