 02
Gaming Realms plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review
Michael Buckley 
Chairman
Patrick Southon 
Chief Executive Officer
Market overview
This has been an exciting first financial period for Gaming Realms. 
Having completed the reverse acquisition and  3.4 million 
fundraising, we are ideally placed to capitalise on the significant 
growth in the online gaming sector as consumers increasingly use 
mobile access to the internet for gambling.
Gaming Realms currently promotes casino and bingo games 
developed both in-house and by third parties such as Bede and 
DragonFish.
During the period, Gaming Realms concentrated on cementing 
foundations in the casino and bingo segments of the social gaming 
market. We are rapidly building products and services to meet the 
growing requirements of gamers to engage on differing social 
media devices via various touch points such as app stores, 
Facebook and mobile advertising platforms.
Activity in 2013
Overall we are pleased with our early performance and growth. 
Our focus has been the adoption of online casino and bingo to 
mobile devices. Key for Gaming Realms is increasing their number 
of new users and lowering their CPA. Our growth, both organic and 
via acquisition, has been focused around this strategy. 
In August 2013, we acquired Bejig Limited, a developer and 
operator of online multiplayer social gambling games. Bejig has a 
social, virtual currency gambling game AvaTingo  and a virtual 
currency casino game 5 Star Slots . Due to the international focus 
of social gaming products such as 5 Star Slots, Gaming Realms 
has been able to experiment with a global audience, attracting 
users on a cost-per-install basis.
Highlights 
 	 64% revenue increase for quarter ended  
31 December 2013 (from previous quarter 
ended 30 September 2013)
 	 334% increase in player numbers from 
previous quarter ended 30 September 2013 
 	 29% reduction in cost per player  
acquisition (CPA ) 
 	 US exposure via targeted CPA deals
 	 50% of real money gambling revenue  
via mobile  03
Gaming Realms plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Key strengths
  
Highly experienced team (that has already led a 
successful gaming company)
 Management were founder shareholders of Cashcade 
which was sold to Party Gaming in 2009 for an 
aggregate  96 million. Additionally the management 
and team of Bejig have backgrounds in real money 
gaming, having worked in senior positions in Gamesys 
and Virtue Fusion, both market-leading companies.
  
Portfolio of successful games
 The Company currently promotes casino and bingo 
games, both developed in-house and by third parties 
such as Bede and DragonFish. All products are 
suitably licenced and regulated as required.
  
Successful acquisitions
 Following on from the acquisitions of Bejig Limited and 
AlchemyBet Limited in August 2013, in December 2013 
the Group acquired QuickThink Media Limited, a data 
marketing company which specialises in acquisition in 
channels such as Facebook.
  
Specialist marketing expertise
 Together with QuickThink Media Limited, the Group 
focuses on targeting and methods of acquisition within 
the gambling sector which are optimised in terms of 
achieving as low a CPA as possible.
We also acquired AlchemyBet Limited, which develops and 
operates mobile slot and casino themed real-money  gambling 
games. The games are built in HTML5 and are available across all 
devices. This added social gambling as well as real money 
gambling platforms to the Gaming Realms.
Bingo Realms Limited (formerly Gaming Realms Limited) was 
formed to develop a new bingo concept based on interactive 
next-generation digital games and its first development, Bingo 
Godz, was launched in Beta form in August 2013. Bingo Godz 
offers users a simple yet immersive bingo game experience, which 
can be played on the web, tablet and mobile platforms. The game 
play is designed around a selection of Godz  who provide players 
with bonus features (e.g. free marks of a bingo ticket, cash-back on 
tickets for a game if a player doesn't win). Each Godz offers a 
different power and bonus. 
The combination of these social features is designed to result in 
higher user times, better conversion and increased life-time player 
value compared with existing online bingo operators. Availability 
across all devices should also lower the CPA of new players.
In 2013, Gaming Realms won Best Boutique Bingo site  
for Iceland Bingo in the 2013 Bingoport awards. We were  
also shortlisted for Rising Star Award  in the eGaming 2013  
Awards Ceremony. 
Strategic Report
Helen Flanagan is first celebrity guest God on Bingo Godz 04
Gaming Realms plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review
continued
Financial results 
Throughout 2013 Gaming Realms has invested in technology, 
enabling the Group to compete in the expanding mobile and tablet 
gaming market, and marketing its brands to increase user activity. 
On 1 August 2013, Gaming Realms completed the reverse 
acquisition of Pursuit Dynamics PLC and the acquisitions of  
Bejig Limited and AlchemyBet Limited. 
The main expense was on marketing ( 1,750,777) in order to drive 
traffic and liquidity to our brands, and to grow future revenues. This 
investment impacted our profits for year, and financial results show 
revenue of  881,060 and a loss before tax of  3,289,631. As at  
30 September 2013, the Group had no debt and held  5,185,323  
in cash.
To provide a greater level of detail on the Group's financials this 
year, we have explained the reverse transaction and business 
combination of the entities in Note 24.
Details of risks facing the Group and policies to manage these  
risks can be found in the Directors Report on page 10. The Group's 
KPI's of net revenue, EBITDA, cash at year end, new depositing 
players and active depositing players, is shown on  
the adjacent page.
Financial key performance indicators
Gaming Realms generated  881,060 in revenue for the period 
ending 30 September 2013. Revenue generated from marketing 
services is calculated as a percentage of net gaming revenue from 
the operators, and represents 25% of total revenue for the period. 
For the two months since the acquisition, social gaming revenue 
derived from the purchase of credits and awards on the social 
gaming sites represents 50% of the total revenue. Real money 
gaming, in the two months since acquisition, derived revenue from 
online gambling operations which represents 25% of total revenue. 
The adjusted EBITDA (a loss of  2,323,343) is calculated before 
deducting the share-based payment charge arising from acquisition 
as a once-off cost associated with the reverse transaction of Bingo 
Realms Limited into Gaming Realms plc, share-based payment for 
share options and listing and acquisition costs. 
The Group discloses marketing, operating and administrative 
expenses on the face of the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. As noted above, the Group invested 
heavily in marketing, spending a total of  1,750,777 on online,  
TV and affiliate marketing in the period.
The cash balance at 30 September 2013 was  5,185,323.
Post period end
Gaming Realms focuses on targeting new customers and methods 
of customer acquisition within the gambling sector. In December 
2013, the Group acquired QuickThink Media Limited, a data 
marketing company specialising in customer acquisition via 
channels such as Facebook.
On the same day, the Group raised an additional  2.4 million 
through a placing of 11,476,190 new ordinary shares at 21 pence 
per share.
For the first four months of the new financial year, revenue has 
increased by an average 64% per month, with new depositing 
players up by 55%. The result is particularly strong given the 
platform stability issues Bingo Godz encountered following its beta 
launch. Our partner, Bede Gaming, has been working to resolve 
these issues and the Group is now preparing to scale the product 
and begin a Bingo Godz marketing campaign. 05
Gaming Realms plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Outlook
Given the increased investment in product development and 
marketing, the Board believe Gaming Realms is well positioned to 
produce similar growth and player acquisition throughout the 
remainder of the current financial year. Gaming Realms' objective is 
simple: engage users on new devices and further reduce our CPA. 
The Group's marketing efforts will therefore focus on testing the 
engagement of users on a variety of mobile traffic sources, with a 
focus on reducing CPA.
Our work on targeting users via Facebook is highly relevant as we 
build on formats for mobile-related devices and we believe we will 
shortly see gains from this channel. Wagering on platforms such  
as Castle Jackpot is already 36% mobile-related, without additional 
mobile-specific traffic and advertisements. The marketing team has 
been expanded and will in 2014 start carrying out tests on a variety 
of mobile traffic sources. 
A spin-off benefit of our work targeting Facebook users, combined 
with ownership of a significant US social casino database, is the 
opportunity to engage new and existing US gaming clients on a 
marketing services basis. Two US casino marketing trials are now 
actively generating insight for Gaming Realms and our partners 
which we believe could provide a significant opportunity for the 
Group over the coming years. 
We are also in the process of enabling a new customer relationship 
management system, in order to engage real money users in 
one-to-one daily notifications and bonuses. This technique and 
system has been taken directly from the social games studio and 
has been trialled and tested using Iceland Bingo. The platform will be 
rolled out to our other real money brands over the coming months.
Initial tests in the UK market using brands such as Pocket Fruity 
and Castle Jackpot demonstrate low CPA, and in 2014 we will be 
looking to increase revenues significantly from this channel. 
Currently our focus is the UK market; we will look at new regions 
for expansion as legislation allows.
Michael Buckley Patrick Southon
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
19 February 2014 19 February 2014
Financial key performance indicators
2013 
 000s
Revenue 881
Adjusted EBITDA (2,323)
Loss before taxation (3,290)
EPS from continuing operations (pence) (9.03)
Total assets 12,563
Net assets 10,740
Net current assets 6,530
Cash and cash equivalents at the period end 5,185
Average monthly new depositing  
players (number) 9,153
Average daily active depositing  
players (number) 1,012
Strategic Report