 Global Oceanic Carriers Limited REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Highlights 
 
  Turnover $20.8m 
 
  Operating profit of $3.5m  
 
  Exceptional administrative cost of cancelling vessel purchase $3.2m  
 
  Operating profit before exceptional item cost of $6.7m 
 
  Profit before tax of $2.4m 
 
  Net debt reduced by $22.6m in ten months from $36m to $13.4m   
 
  Additional vessels committed 
 
  Facilities in place for vessel acquisitions 
 
  Vessels continue to be on charter 
 
  Excellent rates achieved in difficult market conditions 
 
  Major changes to the Board of Directors 
 
  Major change to shareholder base, providing stability and financial commitment to the Company 
 
 
 
Statement 
 
I am delighted to present the first audited accounts of Global Oceanic Carriers Limited for the period since incorporation 
on 21 December 2004 to 31 May 2006.  We are pleased to be able to report an operating profit of $3,466,448 during the 
period to 31 May 2006, which includes the cost of withdrawing from the acquisition of the Trader of $3,202,266, and an 
interest charge of $1,083,849 resulting in a profit before tax of $2,382,599. 
 
The Company, which was the first shipping company to list in London for many years, started trading on 25 May 2005 and 
listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 26 May 2005.  The dry bulk market, and indeed the whole shipping sector, 
had seen a significant rise in charter rates and ship values throughout the preceding year and more, driven by the growing 
demands of China, India and other emerging markets.  Several shipping companies had listed successfully in the United 
States. 
 
Almost immediately following the listing at the end of May 2005, the drybulk market suffered a sharp decline and charter 
rates were adversely affected.  At the time, it was thought to be a short seasonal decline, however the downturn lasted 
throughout the remainder of the year and then into 2006, and only since late spring has the market shown a period of 
sustained recovery. 
 
It had been the intention to acquire four dry bulk carriers following the listing, and legal agreements were put in place to 
secure the purchase of the vessels.  The first vessel GO Faith was delivered in the second week of June 2005, with the 
second, GO Pride delivered at the end of June.  GO Public was delivered at the end of July 2005.  Both GO Pride and GO 
Public were acquired with charters attached, providing income of $18,000 and $34,500 per day.  The charters ran until 
early spring of this year, and provided the Company with substantial income to combat the difficult market.  GO Faith was 
not purchased with a charter attached and so had to find its place in a depressed market.  Although the vessel was 
constantly on hire, it was at considerably lower rates than had been expected at the outset, albeit it fared extremely 
competitively in a difficult market. 
 
The fourth vessel, the Trader, as with GO Faith, was committed without a charter attached and was failing to achieve 
charter rates that had been anticipated, or rates that could justify its agreed value.  The Board concluded that it was not in 
the Company's best interests to take immediate delivery of the Trader, and so the board negotiated to delay delivery with 
the ship's owners, and to allow a sensible period to see whether the market improved.  Delivery was postponed several 
times throughout the final months of 2005, but market conditions remained depressed, charter rates were showing little 
sign of recovery and ship values were impaired.  The Trader's purchase price in the opinion of the Board and its advisers 
could not be supported and it was agreed by the Board in late November to negotiate the cancellation of the purchase 
agreement.  This decision was taken with the greatest reluctance, but was commercially and financially essential.  The 
cost to the Company of cancelling the agreement to purchase the vessel amounted to $3,202,266, which comprised the 
forfeiture of the deposit and compensation to the owners.  Although the outcome of withdrawing from the transaction could 
 
PAGE 3 
  Global Oceanic Carriers Limited REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006 
  
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
have been substantially heavier if it had been pursued through the legal system, it has had a major impact on the profit for 
the period. 
 
In the period debt facilities were negotiated to assist with vessel purchases.  The Company had been required by its 
bankers to draw down the full facility of $36 million to purchase four ships, and to make capital repayments based on the 
income generated from four ships.  This was an extremely onerous demand on the business but the bank would not enter 
into any discussions until a decision was reached on whether to proceed or withdraw from the commitment to the fourth 
vessel.  This was a major strain on the business and was a key factor in the Board concluding that the purchase of the 
Trader could not proceed.  I am pleased to report that revised terms were agreed with the bank following the decision to 
withdraw from the Trader's purchase agreement.  During this time the Board unsuccessfully sought to refinance the debt 
facilities and incurred significant costs working with its broker on exploring raising a debt instrument. 
 
The interim results released just before Christmas reflected the impact of the forfeiture of the deposit on the Trader, and 
so caused a loss in the first three months of actual trading.  This had a significant impact on the share price.  This 
inevitably created an opportunity for those in the shipping industry familiar with the market by recognising the platform and 
opportunity that the Company provided. 
 
I am pleased to report that after much activity in the shares, which culminated in an Extraordinary General Meeting being 
requisitioned in May 2006, the Company now has three major shareholders who are experienced in the sector and are 
committed to growing the business. 
 
Inevitably this had led to significant changes within the Board with Michael P Tartsinis replacing Vassilis Vintiadis as Chief 
Executive Officer and myself replacing Konstantinos Dimitriou as Chairman.  Antonios Nikolaou also joins the Board as 
executive director.  I would like to thank all the directors who have stood down for the considerable effort in creating this 
business, which we will now develop. 
 
We have also decided to change the ship management arrangements, and we will be using Antares Shipmanagement 
S.A. to look after our fleet. 
 
We have appointed Jefferies & Co to be Brokers and Nominated Adviser to the Company.  We are looking forward to 
working with them and utilising their considerable experience in shipping and the public markets. 
 
The next stage of the development of the business is well underway. Further to our recent announcement we have posted 
a circular to shareholders outlining certain operational changes to the business, two vessel acquisitions and a rights 
offering. 
 
We have entered into a purchase agreement to acquire a capesize bulk carrier, the M/VWelfair for $36,200,000.  This 
vessel will continue on its current time charter through to April 2007 at a rate of $25,000. Thereafter we have fixed the 
vessel for a further 3 years with the same charterer at daily charter rates varying between $23,000 and $32,000 a day.  
There is an option to extend the charter for a further year at a rate of $25,500 per day.  We have also entered into a 
purchase agreement to acquire a handymax bulk carrier, the M/VTalisman for $27,500,000. This vessel will continue on its 
current time charter at a rate of $16,000 per day.  Thereafter it has been fixed for a further 2 years with the same charterer 
at a rate of $19,250 per day. Both acquisitions are in line with our strategic ambitions and will help to deliver further value 
for shareholders.  The purchases will be funded from a combination of new bank facilities and the proceeds of a rights 
offering, the terms of which are set out below.  
 
We are making a rights offer to qualifying shareholders, on a 1 for 1 basis, to subscribe for 20,016,396 new shares at a 
price of 65p per share to raise approximately  13,000,000 (the Rights Offer ). The Company has received irrevocable 
undertakings in respect of 14,240,767 new shares from Trafalgar Discovery Fund, Trafalgar Catalyst Fund and Trafalgar 
Recovery Fund (the Trafalgar Funds ), International Trading Inc., Ultra Shipping SA and Argo Capital Investors Fund SPC 
to take up their respective rights representing in aggregate 71.1% of the shares subject to the Rights Offer. These 
shareholders (the Underwriters ) have also agreed, subject to certain conditions, to severally underwrite the remaining 
5,775,629 shares being offered to qualifying shareholders.  The Underwriters are substantial shareholders of the 
Company and therefore related parties for the purposes of the AIM Rules. The Underwriters will receive no commissions 
in respect of their underwriting commitments.  The directors, having been advised by Jefferies International Limited, 
consider that the terms of the underwriting arrangement are fair and reasonable insofar as shareholders are concerned. 
 
We have also decided to change the ship management arrangements, and we will be using Antares Shipmanagement SA 
( Antares ) to look after our fleet, a company affiliated with Michael Tartsinis, our CEO, and Nicolas Pappadakis.  
Accordingly, the Company has signed a new management agreement with Antares pursuant to which Antares will have 
full technical and commercial management of our vessels, including those vessels to be acquired. The new contract 
contains a fixed rate management fee payable to Antares and does not include the earnings commissions which were 
payable under our previous management contracts which have been terminated. As a result, we have reduced the overall 
management fee from approximately $778 per vessel per day (based on income achieved in the last twelve months) to 
$550 per vessel per day, a decrease of approximately 29%. Full details of the management agreement will be set out in 
the circular to be sent to shareholders today.  For the purposes of the AIM Rules, entering into the management 
agreement constitutes a related party transaction. The directors, other than Michael Tartsinis and Nicolas Pappadakis, 
PAGE 4 
  Global Oceanic Carriers Limited REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
having consulted with Jefferies International our nominated adviser, confirm that the terms of the management 
agreement are fair and reasonable in so far as shareholders are concerned.   
 
It has been a difficult start for Global Oceanic Carriers, but I believe that following all the recent changes we have an 
extremely solid platform to build on, and we look forward to the challenges ahead. 
 
 
 
 
 
Nicolas Antoine Pappadakis 
Chairman
6 October 2006 
 
PAGE 5 
 