  Goals Soccer Centres plc 
 Directors' report and financial statements 
 31 December 2005 
 
 3 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
I am pleased to report Goals Soccer Centres' results for the year ended 31
st
 December 2005. 
 
This has been another excellent year as Goals continues to deliver strong financial performance. Sales 
increased by 35% to  11.2m (2004:  8.3m). EBITDA increased by 46% to  4.7m (2004:  3.2m), and 
EBITA increased by 58% to  3.8m (2004:  2.4m). This resulted in a 296% increase in profit on ordinary 
activities before tax and amortisation to  2.9m (2004:  0.7m), a 355% increase in profit before tax to 
 2.8m (2004:  0.6m), an 83% increase in earnings per share (before amortisation) to 4.6p (2004: 2.5p) 
and a 122% increase in earnings per share to 4.3p (2004: 1.9p). 
 
Strong financial performance driven by like for like sales growth of 9% is further evidence of the 
Company's proven next generation  concept and the high level of pitch utilisation achieved. Our focus on 
prime locations, quality facilities and outstanding customer service has led to strongly increased revenues 
from existing centres and new openings. 
 
Taking 5-a-side into the premier league  
 
The popularity of 5-a-side football continues to grow. Football is the most popular sport in the UK and 5-a-
side football as a commercial activity has grown rapidly in recent years. This has been acknowledged by 
the Football Association in their formal recognition of the small sided game. The Board believes the 
unique Goals concept puts the Company in a strong position to capitalise on this popularity and exploit 
the continuing major commercial opportunity to satisfy significant potential and latent demand in the 
market. 
 
The Board recognises the long term potential of the small sided football market and considers a strategy 
of developing quality facilities in prime locations together with excellent service will continue to underpin 
Goals premier market position over the long term. 
 
Our strategy remains focused and straightforward: 
  To continue to innovate and lead the industry, 
  To accelerate our rollout of next generation  soccer centres in prime locations, 
  To maximise revenue from existing centres through outstanding customer service, 
  To continue to build a positive national 5-a-side brand and to develop marketing partnerships with 
operators of recognised complementary brands, 
  To continue to generate high returns on capital 
We continue to make excellent progress in all these areas. 
 
Goals has acquired an enviable reputation through its commitment to quality and service, indeed all 
pitches at all centres are  3G artificial grass, a unique market position. This has led to many innovative 
partnerships with schools, local authorities and the private sector. Our commitment to quality and our 
positive community policies have led to recognition and support from sporting organisations and 
government bodies. The FA has introduced a Small Sided Football Award to aid the continued 
development of the sport by offering recognition and benefits to those providers that attain the quality 
standards.  Goals welcomes this initiative and is applying for the award for all its centres in England. 
 
I am delighted to announce that we have entered into an exclusive brand partnership with UMBRO, a 
globally recognised football brand with a strong heritage derived from more than 70 years' association 
with the sport of football. UMBRO have recently been appointed the FA Partner of Small sided football. 
Our partnership with UMBRO will lead to many benefits for both companies and is in line with Goals 
strategy of working with brands enjoying a strong association with football.  In addition to this, we have 
entered into a sponsorship agreement with Powerade  the official sports drink' of the World Cup, the 
European Championships and the Football League. 
 
 
 
 
 
   Goals Soccer Centres plc 
 Directors' report and financial statements 
 31 December 2005 
 
 4 
 
 
5-a-side is now a whole new ball game  
 
Goals is the premier operator in the market. Our next generation  offering comprises the latest artificial 
pitch technology, high quality facilities and superior customer service. During 2005, we continued to 
evolve and improve the Goals concept. This included further advances in artificial grass technology, the 
launch of a new interactive website and the provision of themed Kids Party Zones. We continue to invest 
in our advanced management and communication systems to improve customer experience and increase 
income. We intend during the course of 2006 to implement new online team management facilities and 
online booking. 
 
Goals benefits from a high level of customer satisfaction identified through measured feedback. We aim 
to continually exceed customers' expectations and to provide the best possible customer experience.  
 
This is an exciting year for football with the 2006 World Cup being held in Germany this summer. Goals 
will work with its partners including UMBRO and Powerade to ensure that the anticipated high level of 
interest in the game will benefit our business over the medium to long term.  
 
New signings 
  
Goals continues to develop its strong site pipeline to provide for future centre openings. We have 
developed a well defined and proven site selection strategy which is fundamental to the ongoing success 
of the business. We continue to be successful in identifying and developing high profile sites in densely 
populated areas. 
 
Our reputation and commitment to quality facilities has enabled us to pursue sites through partnership 
arrangements with the private sector, schools, local authorities and colleges. Goals Sheffield, our most 
recent school partnership was formally opened by Richard Caborn MP, Minister of Sport.  
 
Since the Company listed on AIM in December 2004 we have opened Goals Black Country, Goals 
Teesside, Goals Heathrow, Goals Sheffield , Goals Beckenham and Goals Sutton. We have also 
acquired a centre in Southampton and this is currently being refurbished to reflect the Goals next 
generation  concept. The centre is currently trading and refurbishment works will be complete by April 
2006. 
 
Construction has also commenced on new centres in the West Midlands, Bradford and Plymouth and 
construction on one further centre is expected to commence prior to June 2006. Our site pipeline 
continues to strengthen and we are confident we will open a minimum of five centres during 2007. 
 
Goals in the community  
 
Goals commitment to youth sports development in the communities in which it operates is evidenced by 
its Community Access Policy which provides free access to key user groups during off-peak hours. By 
working in partnership with schools, local authorities and government bodies we have improved access 
for children to quality sports facilities.  
 
A team game 
  
The Directors continue to strengthen the management team to match the Company's continued growth. 
The delivery of a quality service and experience to our customers is down to the professionalism and 
dedication of our staff. Our future staff requirements are provided through ongoing training and promotion 
from within. I should like to thank all Goals staff for their major part in delivering another year of 
operational and financial success. 
 
Financial review 
 
This has been an excellent year as the Goals concept continues to deliver strong financial performance.  
   Goals Soccer Centres plc 
 Directors' report and financial statements 
 31 December 2005 
 
 5 
 
Sales increased by 35% to  11.2m (2004:  8.3m). This included a contribution of  1.35m from the new 
centres opened during the year. 
 
This strong performance is further evidence of the Company's proven next generation concept  and the 
focus on increasing revenues not only from developing its pipe line of new sites but also from its existing 
centres. Our staff continue to focus on customer retention and maximising pitch utilisation and our 
systems are designed to assist the staff to achieve this objective. I am pleased to report like-for-like sales 
growth of 9% in the year. 
 
EBITDA increased by 46% to  4.7m (2004:  3.2m), and EBITA increased by 58% to  3.8m (2004: 
 2.4m). The gross profit margin increased to 87% (2004: 86%), the EBITDA profit margin increased to 
42% (2004: 39%) and the EBITA profit margin increased to 34% (2004: 29%). The improvement in 
margins reflects the ongoing increase in utilisation across the centres and tight cost control.  
 
This resulted in a 296% increase in profit on ordinary activities before tax and amortisation to  2.9m 
(2004:  0.7m)  
 
Interest costs reduced from  1.7m to  0.9m due to the funds raised from the placing of shares when the 
Company listed on AIM in December 2004. 
The tax charge for the year is an effective rate of 36.1% (2004: 32.6%). The charge includes  118,000 
(0.28p per share) being the one off impact of amending the rate at which deferred tax is provided from 
19% to 30%. 
 
This resulted in an 83% increase in earnings per share (before amortisation) to 4.6p (2004: 2.5p) and a 
122% increase in earnings per share to 4.3p (2004: 1.9p). 
 
Cash inflow from operating activities increased by 60% to  4.8m (2004:  3m).  9.8m was invested as 
capital expenditure during the year,  8.6m of which related to investment in new centres. At 31 December 
2005 approximately  1.4m had been invested in sites which are planned to open during 2006.. 
 
Debt at 31 December 2005 was  15.5m (2004:  10.0m). This level of debt represents 107% of 
shareholders' funds and 50% of tangible fixed assets. We have put in place a new  25m six year 
revolving credit facility with HBoS . This will fully fund our objective of 14 further centres over the next 
three years and provide a contingency for further centre openings. 
 
Dividends 
 
The Board intends the Company will continue to retain the majority of distributable profits and cash flows 
to contribute towards the funding of its planned rollout of new centres. However, the Directors have 
proposed a maiden final ordinary dividend in respect of the current year of 0.5p per share and in the 
future propose to pay dividends each year growing at least as fast as earnings. 
 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 April 2006, the final dividend of 0.5p 
per share will be paid on 28 April 2006 to shareholders on the register on 31 March 2006. 
 
Current trading  
 
The Company has continued to trade strongly since the year end. We remain confident in our business 
model and product, and look forward to 2006 and beyond with enthusiasm in terms of trading 
performance and new centre openings. 
 
 
 
Sir Rodney Walker                       6 March 2006 
Chairman 