 02 Granada plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Charles Allen
Executive Chairman
Chairman's
statement
Overview
This has been a tough year for
Granada, but we have met the major
business challenges head-on and are
beginning to see some progress
coming through in the second half. 
In the first half of the year we took a
series of significant steps which have
since allowed us to concentrate fully on
building our content and broadcasting
enterprises operations; driving ITV to
create a livelier , more vibrant channel,
more in tune with the needs of viewers
and advertisers and agreeing a merger
with Carlton to create a single ITV .
We have a clear vision for the
future. It is to have one ITV company ,
with one management and one focus
to build a stronger ITV and enhance
shareholder value.
Our turnover on continuing
operations excluding joint ventures was
 1,427 million; 4% down on the same
figure last year as explained more fully 
in the Financial Review .
Profit from our continuing
operations before tax, charges for
goodwill and exceptional items was
 176 million.
Earnings per share from continuing
operations before exceptional items
and goodwill charges were 4.6 pence.
The Board is recommending a final
dividend per share of 1.0 pence,
making a total of 2.0 pence for 
the year .
We have worked extremely hard on
cash generation, and during the year we
increased our net funds by  27 million
to  41 million at the year end.
ITV
In October we and Carlton
Communications Plc agreed terms 
for a merger , which paves the way 
to a fully consolidated ITV . As one
company , ITV will be better able to
compete effectively in the multichannel
world and we believe that there 
will be significant benefits for ITV 
viewers, advertisers and shareholders. 
Viewers will benefit from enhanced
programming investment designed
further to improve quality , choice and
reinforce its strong regional identity .
Advertisers will benefit from the greater
ability of the merged group to invest 
in and maximise the value of its
programming; thereby improving
audience share and commercial
impacts, particularly amongst the key
demographic groups. Finally , shareholders
will benefit from a simpler and clearer
structure, greater efficiency and lower
costs. Shareholders will also benefit
from significant synergies together with
the increased scale and cash flow of
the merged group, which will enable 
it fully to exploit future growth
opportunities. The opportunities for
growth far outweigh those that would
be available to Granada and Carlton 
as separate entities.
In May , drawing from the senior
management of Granada and Carlton,
we appointed joint Managing Directors
for the ITV Network Centre. There is
now a renewed determination to
attract greater audiences and 
to market the value of ITV to advertisers
more effectively . We injected an extra
 25 million into the autumn season' s
commissioning budget and have
agreed that for 2003, ITV1' s network
programme budget will be 
 836 million, the largest in its history . 
The 2003 budget is a significant
increase on 2002' s final programme
budget of  775 million. As sports 
costs will be lower next year the 
budget for 2003 gives ITV1 an
additional  100 million to spend on
original programming. As an example,
for every week of the year , these
additional funds could provide ITV1
with nearly three extra hours of top
end drama like Cold Feet; plus five
hours of a popular entertainment 
show like Popstars; along with three
extra episodes of a high-ratings drama
such as Heartbeat.
A new Director of Programmes,
Nigel Pickard, has been appointed 
and ITV1 has been rebranded to 
bring our talent to the fore and 
present viewers and advertisers with 
a more lively , united and up-to-date
image of the channel, both nationally
and in the regions.
We believe that the results of the
additional investment are already clear
to see. ITV1' s ratings have improved
significantly this autumn. Its peak 
time share for the autumn is on a par
with last year despite the growth in
competition, and is ahead of all the 
rest of the commercial channels' 
shares combined. 
R 03 Granada plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Chairman's statement
ITV1' s commercial impacts, which
measure the audience watching
advertisements have strengthened, 
with a rise of 5% in ABC1 impacts 
and a 12% rise in 16-34 impacts, 
in the autumn of 2002. Meanwhile, 
ITV2 has become one of the top ten
channels in Britain by viewing share,
with commercial impacts this year up
over 400%, and revenue up 300%.
Our strategy for ITV2 is to schedule
more brand extensions, along with
repeats of favourite shows, and 
to continue to grow audience share.
We have continued to review all 
our digital and online investments. 
By the start of this year , ITV Digital 
had grown to 1.26 million subscribers
and was continuing to drive down
costs. ITV Digital took steps to reduce
internal operating costs significantly ,
removing 600 jobs. However , by the
end of February it became clear that, 
to have a viable business for Granada
and Carlton to continue to invest in,
the third party costs of suppliers and
rights owners would also have to 
be reduced. Deloitte & T ouche were
appointed to assist with negotiations. 
At the end of March, the ITV Digital
Board decided there was little prospect
of achieving the necessary cost
reductions and the Company was
placed into administration on 
27 March 2002. The administrators
closed the pay operations of ITV Digital
on 30 April 2002. We are only too
aware of the consequences that closure
of ITV Digital has had for many people,
but it would have been irresponsible to
continue to fund the operation without
a viable plan that would deliver an
eventual return for shareholders. 
The loss for ITV Digital and ITV Sport
over the full year was  99 million and
the exceptional charge on closure was
 104 million. Further details appear in
the Financial Review.
Advertising and sponsorship
After a first half in which our
advertising revenue was down on
2001, the second half of the year saw
a marked turnaround with a rise of 
5% in advertising revenue and the
majority of advertising categories of
advertiser increasing their spend. 
Whilst revenue for the year as a 
whole was down by 4%, six out of 
the top ten categories increased spend. 
Retail continued to grow, now up to
17% of total revenue, and both
Motors and Entertainment also saw
significant growth on last year . 
We also saw second-half growth in 
the financial, cosmetics and telecoms
sectors. T otal sponsorship revenue was 
 19 million, down from  23 million 
last year and reflecting earlier falls in
advertising revenue.
Content
Granada has an outstanding pool of
creative talent, producing high-quality
programmes across all genres for a
wide spectrum of audiences. We make
56% of ITV commissioned programme
hours and are a significant producer for
the BBC, Channel 4, Five and pay-TV
channels. This year , we have produced 
a number of critically acclaimed 
high-quality dramas for ITV including
The Forsyte Saga, Bloody Sunday and
Dr Zhivago. New popular entertainment
series such as Popstars: The Rivals and
I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here
have captured the public imagination.
Granada hits such as Coronation 
Street, Emmerdale and Heartbeat
have performed outstandingly well. 
Blind Date and Stars In Their Eyes have
both refreshed and modernised their
formats, while Emmerdale in its thirtieth
year has increased its audience year-on-
year and is regularly achieving ratings of
over 10 million. Internationally we have
had a good year , with new production
and format sales in the US, Australia
and Europe, and greatly increased sales
from our programme library .
Outlook
With all our focus now on our core 
ITV and Content operations, we are 
well positioned to exploit an upturn in
the advertising market. NAR has now
risen for seven consecutive months to
November . In the quarter to December
2002 we estimate ITV1 NAR will be up
by 2% on last year . We do not have
any visibility for revenues into 2003.
The significant increase in ITV1' s 2003
Network programme budget of 8%
signals the scale of our ambition for 
the future.
The proposed merger will help 
to create a virtuous circle whereby
maximising investment in quality
programming will lead to increased
viewing, generating greater advertising
demand and consequently allowing
further investment. 
Gerry Robinson will retire from the
Board after our Annual General
Meeting on 19 March 2003. 
Gerry joined Granada as Chief Executive
in November 1991 and very rapidly
transformed the Company as he
streamlined the existing operations, 
and expanded both media and leisure
divisions. Gerry was Chairman until the
demerger from Compass in February
2001, since when he has been a 
non-executive director . Gerry' s strategic
vision was instrumental in Granada' s
development and he retires with our
thanks and best wishes. 
I would also like to thank 
Steve Morrison, who, after 28 years 
at Granada, stepped down as 
Chief Executive in September . 
After joining Granada in the Manchester
programme production operation,
Steve had a long and distinguished
career , and was one of the driving 
forces behind programmes that won
BAFT A and Oscar awards. We wish 
him well in the future.
Sir George Russell has joined us as
non-executive Deputy Chairman and
will play a significant role in assisting 
the Board to manage the regulatory
issues and industry opportunities
created by the new Communications
Bill. James Crosby has been appointed
as a non-executive director . His career
includes senior roles in a number of
financial services companies and his
experience will be of great benefit to
the Board.
Finally , I extend my sincere thanks 
to all Granada' s staff for their continued
loyalty , enthusiasm and dedication.
We have a clear vision for 
the future. It is to have one
ITV , with one management
and one focus. 
R