 DIRECTORS' REPORT
Chairman's statement
Thirty years of dividend growth of 5% or more per annum
Introduction
This financial year marks an historic milestone for Halma. Subject to shareholders approving
the final recommended dividend of 4.78p per share, an increase of 5% for the year, this will
be the thirtieth consecutive year of dividend increases of 5% p.a. or more, which we believe
is a record for our sector.
I thought it might be useful to reflect on some of the important principles which have contributed
to that performance over the three decades.
  Firstly, we invest in companies with robust market drivers, making products which target non-
discretionary spend where it is difficult for competitors to get into the market and where value
far exceeds costs thereby helping to drive strong margins.
  Secondly, our management philosophy is to devolve responsibility for all aspects of performance
to the individual companies themselves. This keeps them close to their markets, understanding
customer needs and driving strong innovation where it counts - in the market.
  Thirdly, we standardise reporting and risk assessment across all companies.
  Fourthly, as a result, we produce good returns on total invested capital (this year 13.1%)
and generate cash which we use to finance dividends, and the balance we reinvest in the
businesses themselves or invest in acquiring more companies which meet these business criteria.
Reading this, you might think that all sounds rather obvious - why don't more companies do it?
Some do. The difference perhaps is that we stick to it, because we believe it works. Take one example:
surely we do not need so many managing directors, finance directors and so on; why not consolidate
dramatically and save swathes of cost? The answer is that we could do and occasionally we will
consolidate two or more companies. However, in the process of consolidation, typically what
happens is that everyone becomes internally focused, attention on the market reduces,
innovation falters and ground is lost (often permanently) all for a transient one-off cost saving.
Having said that, we are not frozen in time, we continually question the basics and change
where needed. Some examples of this over the last few years are:
Geographic markets
We have seen recently the strong emergence of the developing economies. However, if like many
of our companies you had little or no experience of operating there, where would you start? Our
response was to set up hubs in China and more recently India, to help our individual companies
enter the market. In effect, making the water slightly warmer for them. As a result, for example,
we started with three and now have nineteen companies operating in China and last year our
sales there increased by 25%.
Innovation
The pace of change gets faster by the day and advances in technology are there to be seized.
Within the Group we have strong pockets of deep expertise in many domains and recognise
that certain technologies and techniques have applications across the Group in more than just
the originating company. So this year we hosted an innovation event to encourage the cross-
fertilisation of ideas, which in turn we believe will increase the speed and effectiveness of
innovation across the Group.
10 Halma p.l.c. Annual report and accounts 2009
Geoff Unwin
Chairman
2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS
What we said
1. Measurement and reporting of our carbon footprint
2. Establishment of non-financial KPI in respect of the workplace
3. Continuing development of our people
4. Emphasis on business ethics
5. Maintenance of the composition and balance of the Board
What we've achieved
Halma's carbon policy was approved by the Board in 2007 and calls for
a 10% reduction in the carbon footprint by 2010. To date our consumption
has reduced by 7%.
Halma conducts an annual survey of our employees to assess how well
our espoused values are present in our organisation. This year's survey
showed continuing good alignments.
The Halma Executive Development Programme and the Management
Development Programme, aimed at middle-managers, continue whilst
further training is taking place at lower levels within subsidiary companies.
Since 2007, the Group has formally adopted Group-wide policies on
human rights and business practices to reinforce the strong ethical
culture already prevalent throughout the Group.
The Board appointed an internal successor for a retiring executive
Director bringing a new US perspective and additional expertise of our
Health and Analysis sector. People development
Our results are a function of the dedication, capability and quality of our people. Over the last
few years we have significantly increased our investment in training, running tailor-made
programmes for our key people. Increasingly, we have been looking to promote from within,
which in turn improves the career prospects for all.
In summary, the Group has very strong, sound foundations which we continuously seek to
improve without eroding them. It is these values which have driven our performance consistently
over three decades.
Halma: what we do and our strategy
Our business is to make products which protect lives and improve the quality of life for people
worldwide. We do this through continuous innovation in market-leading products which meet
the increasing demands for improvements to health, safety and the environment. We build
strong positions in niche markets where the demand is global. Our businesses are
autonomous and highly entrepreneurial.
Strategically we aim to grow profit and revenue in excess of 5% p.a. organically, to have Return
on sales in the region of 18% or above and generate post-tax Return on total invested capital of
more than 12%. As a result we are highly cash generative and reinvest in our businesses through
people, product and market development, continue to acquire more companies with like
characteristics, and strive to give annual dividend growth of 5% or more to our shareholders.
Results
Unsurprisingly, the second half saw a weakening in our order intake (the detail is provided in
Andrew Williams' report) and action was taken, where necessary, across the Group to bring
costs in line with new levels of demand. Nevertheless, full year revenue from continuing
operations increased 15.4% to  455.9m (2008:  395.1m) underlying organic revenue growth
1
was 10.7% with currency having a net impact of 8.2%, i.e. 2.5% organic growth at constant
currency. Profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles on continuing operations
was  79.1m (2008:  72.8m), an increase of 8.7% and organic profit growth
1
was 5.1%, at constant
currency a decline of 3.3%. Statutory profit before tax increased 7.0% to  72.8m. The Board is
recommending
2
a final dividend of 4.78p per share, an increase of 5%. Our dividend cover
2
has
increased to 1.93 times (2008: 1.83 times). Return on total invested capital was 13.1% (2008: 14.1%).
Acquisitions and disposals
During the year we acquired Fiberguide Industries, which manufactures optical fibre cables and
assemblies, for an initial cash payment of $14m. We also purchased the business and assets of
Oerlikon Optics USA Inc.'s operation located in Golden, Colorado, USA for $6m in cash, a business
which designs and manufactures optical coatings and optomechanical assemblies and which will
operate as part of the newly created Ocean Thin Films, Inc. These two new businesses form part
of our Photonics sub-sector within the Health and Analysis sector. There were two very small
disposals in the year. Details are included in the Chief Executive's review and Financial review.
Governance
Other than Adam Meyers' appointment to the Board at the beginning of the year and Keith Roy's
retirement at the 2008 AGM, there have been no changes at Board level during the year.
People
The second half in particular has been testing for all of us for the economic reasons which
saturate our news channels daily. In these uncertain times, people across the Group have reacted
to adjust to the circumstances they find in the markets. Often this has been difficult and trying.
I give my sincere appreciation and thanks to them all.
Outlook
Visibility in most of our markets is still limited. Different countries, sectors and products are at
differing places in the economic cycle. Therefore, we are encouraging all our management teams
to react to their markets as they see fit, keeping costs in line with order intake, but not cutting back
on vital product investment. When we see improving demand, our operational gearing should
show through strongly. In the meantime, we will concentrate on delivering the high level of
returns and cash generation that have been the cornerstone of our resilience over 30 years.
Geoff Unwin
Chairman
1
See Financial highlights
2
Subject to the approval of this year's recommended dividend increase at the AGM on 30 July 2009
www.halma.com 11
BUSINESS REVIEW
15.30P +10
%
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
1
pence
7.93P +5
%
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE (PAID & PROPOSED)
pence
2009 7.93
2008 7.55
7.18
6.83
6.50
2007
2006
2005
2009 15.30
2008 13.86
12.42
11.27
9.45
2007
2006
2005