 Chairman's Statement
1
Introduction
Before I start the detail of this year's Chairman's statement I would like to express the thanks of the whole Board to
the retiring Chairman, Rodney Hornstein, for all that he contributed to Alphameric in his 17 years with the Group.  
My first year as Chairman saw many notable events.
During the year we finalised the merger of the Group's two core operating subsidiaries, Alphameric Leisure
Limited and Alphameric Hospitality Limited, to form Alphameric Solutions Limited. This reduces duplicated
overheads and better focuses key elements of the operations on managing the business to meet the changing
markets that we serve.
In April Amalgamated Racing Limited, our joint venture with Racecourse Media Services Limited, launched its
television channel, branded TurfTV, aimed at Licensed Betting Offices in the UK and Ireland. At launch the
channel included horse racing from 6 of the UK's 59 racecourses. From 1st January 2008 TurfTV added horse
racing from an additional 25 UK racecourses and during the next 12 months it will introduce overseas horse
racing from Dubai and South Africa along with a selection of the next generation virtual racing product.  As is to
be expected with any start-up business, the initial period following launch involved a period of investment as
market penetration was achieved. However, it is pleasing to note that at the time of writing Amalgamated Racing
has succeeded in securing long-term contracts with in excess of c. 80% of Licenced Betting Offices in the UK and
Ireland for the provision of its service, establishing the brand and the channel in the market.  
The launch of TurfTV has not been without its challenges and, as we have previously disclosed, has resulted in
litigation being commenced against, amongst others, Alphameric, Alphameric Gaming Limited, Amalgamated
Racing and 30 of the most prestigious UK horse race courses. The claim is being robustly defended.  In response to
the litigation Amalgamated Racing, Racecourse Investments Limited, and the racecourses have issued a counterclaim
against the claimants. This litigation continues, but I am hopeful of a successful outcome to the process.
Just after the year end, in December 2007, we successfully raised  11 million (before expenses) by way of a rights
issue in order to progress the business plan of Amalgamated Racing and to strengthen the balance sheet of the
Group.  Our shareholders' commitment to TurfTV was clearly demonstrated by their support of the rights issue
and was a key contributory factor in establishing TurfTV in the marketplace.
Results
The results for the year to 30 November 2007 were disappointing with revenues down by a third at  45.2m
(2006:  66.0m). The loss for the year after taxation was  4.2m (2006: retained profit after taxation from
continuing operations  1.6m). Included within the Group's retained loss is its 50% share of the start up losses of
Amalgamated Racing Limited.  For the period to 30 November 2007 our share of these losses, including the costs
incurred by Alphameric associated with the launch of the business through its own profit and loss account,
totalled  4.5m at the operating level.
The basic loss per share was 3.1 pence against the 2006 earnings of 1.3 pence.
The exceptional administrative expenses of  0.7m (2006:  3.0m) comprised the costs associated with staff
reductions that followed the merger of Alphameric Leisure and Alphameric Hospitality together with a rebasing
of the required headcount.
Dividend
Whilst the Board is unable at present to propose a dividend due to the lack of sufficient cover, the Board is mindful
of the needs of shareholders for tangible returns and will reconsider the matter at the earliest opportunity. Review of operations
People
2007 was a testing year for the entire Alphameric group as we encountered and overcame many challenges for
the business.  I would like to express my personal thanks to all of those people, both within and outside the
Group, who remained committed to following through and achieving our business plan despite the tough
environment.  The Group is now back on a strong financial footing and looking forward to delivering good
progress against its stated business objectives and will continue to assess its strategic options.
Amalgamated Racing Limited
Amalgamated Racing Limited pursued its stated business objectives during the period and, early in the new
financial year, was successful in signing Coral, Ladbrokes and William Hill to its TurfTV service, adding to an
already distinguished customer base which included the Tote and Paddy Power.  The long term nature of
Amalgamated Racing's contracts and high marketplace sign up for the service underpins the business plan and
should lead to the generation of good returns for Alphameric's shareholders.
Alphameric Leisure
The widely reported early resistance to Turf TV by its larger customers reduced the leisure business' order intake
across the period, resulting in a marked decline in revenues and profits.  Post year end and following the above
noted success of TurfTV we have seen a marked improvement in customer relations and hope that this line of
business will see a return to more normal trading patterns by the second half of the current financial year.
Alphameric Hospitality
After an encouraging start to the year for the hospitality business, tougher conditions, including those resulting
from the smoking ban, created uncertainty for customers across its marketplace.  This, coupled with the short-
term impact of the changes to the Group, resulted in a weaker second half performance. However, the early signs
in the new financial year, including the recent contract extension by Costa Coffee, one of our anchor customers,
are encouraging. 
While we have merged the Leisure and Hospitality lines of business we remain able to report accurate revenue
figures for the individual lines of business. The profit split between the businesses reflects an allocation of
certain shared overheads.
Revenues for the Leisure business for the year to 30 November 2007 were  29.5m (2006:  47.5m) and for the
Hospitality business were  15.1m (2006:  18.5m).  The Group's share of Amalgamated Racing's revenues was
 0.6m (2006: nil).  At the operating profit level before exceptional items, the leisure business recorded a profit
of  0.2m (2006:  3.5m), Hospitality a profit of  0.1m (2006:  0.2m) and the Group's share of Amalgamated
Racing's losses together with directly incurred costs was  4.5m (2006: nil).
Rights Issue
On 7 November 2007 we announced a fully underwritten rights issue of 7 additional shares for every 10 held at
12p per share to raise approximately  11m before expenses with the proceeds to be used to fund Amalgamated
Racing's business plan and strengthen the Group's balance sheet.  The results of this rights issue are not included
within these financial statements as the transaction completed after the Group's year end.  Following TurfTV's
success in winning customer orders during December 2007 and January 2008 none of the funds raised under
the rights issue have been provided to Amalgamated Racing as the contractual terms of the contracts won for
the TurfTV service make this unnecessary.  
Chairman's Statement
2 Chairman's Statement
3
Potential Offer
On 10 October 2007 your Board announced that it had received unsolicited expressions of interest from a
number of third parties which may or may not lead to an offer being made for the Group .  Subsequently we
announced on 17 December 2007 that the discussions had not progressed to an offer that management
believed was in the best interests of shareholders .
Board and Governance
At our forthcoming Annual General Meeting in April Dr Michael Chamberlain will be stepping down from the
Board as a non executive Director following eight years' service.  I and the Board extend thanks to Michael for all
that he has contributed and wish him every success for the future.
As shareholders will be aware, the Group's Chief Executive Alan Morcombe has been instrumental in the
conception, launch and achievements of Amalgamated Racing.  Now that the start-up phase of this business has
been completed we will liaise with Racecourse Media Services Limited, our joint venture partner in Amalgamated
Racing, to appoint a Managing Director for TurfTV who will be charged with delivering the operational plan for
the business.  Alan Morcombe will remain on the board of Amalgamated Racing and I will join him as
Alphameric's second appointee alongside the two representatives from our joint venture partner, Racecourse
Media Services Limited, to ensure that the business operates and develops in accordance with the best interests
of its shareholders.
During this reporting period I welcomed Steve Mansfield to the Alphameric plc Board. Reporting to Alan
Morcombe, Steve is responsible for delivering the strategic plan for Alphameric Solutions Limited and for
ensuring it meets its future growth targets across both of our core business sectors. 
Outlook
The recent contract successes by Amalgamated Racing demonstrate that the Group's aim of generating a higher
proportion of longer term, contracted repeat revenues is deliverable.  Amalgamated Racing is well funded and
well placed to deliver the key objectives of its business plan which will, in turn, generate good levels of return
for its shareholders.  
Our core businesses are both well placed within their respective markets and each is evolving to remain
competitive in the fluid market in which it operates; the economic backdrop remains uncertain but the fact that
we have already cut our overhead base should serve us well as we seek to re-establish acceptable levels of
revenue and profit within these lines of business.  The Group's balance sheet has been bolstered by the recent
rights issue and this strength, together with a return to more normal trading patterns with our larger customers,
should see us deliver a better performance for the year to November 2008.
Peter Bertram
Chairman
19 February 2008