 Hays plc 06
Chairman's Statement
This report has been prepared against the backdrop of the most volatile and
uncertain economic conditions of the last ten years. Such an environment has
inevitably affected customers and resulted in more difficult trading conditions
than were expected this time last year. The primary challenge in these
circumstances must be to maintain operating cash flow and to be particularly
vigilant on costs at a time when customers are slow to change and invest. 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Our results reflect the market environment with profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items down 15% on sales from continuing
operations that were slightly ahead. The reduction in profit was driven by a number of factors. The primary ones are: depressed markets,
the cost of developing new services within Hays Mail and Express following the enforced return of profitable business to Royal Mail, the
reorganisation of Hays Information Management Solutions (Hays IMS) and delays with the National Management Information System
(NMIS) contract with the Police. Cash flow, however, was particularly strong with a net cash inflow of  143.0 million before acquisitions
and disposals and net debt reduced by a further  88.9 million to  232.0 million. Interest was covered 13 times by operating profit.
DIVIDENDS
We paid our shareholders an interim dividend of 1.52p per share on 31 May 2002. The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.16p
per share in respect of the year to 30 June 2002, for payment on 29 November 2002 to shareholders on the register at 25 October 2002.
The total dividend of 4.68p per share for the year is an increase of 15%. The dividend is covered twice, before goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items.
The Board's policy is to continue to provide shareholders with a progressive dividend whilst maintaining our ability to invest in
future growth.
PERSONNEL
Hays Personnel has withstood the decline in demand much better than expected. Although profits were reduced by 16% to  122.5
million on sales down by less than 1%, our performance compares very favourably with others in the industry. Like-for-like margins have
been maintained, but the net margin declined due to a change in the business mix. Fees for temporary staff recruitment, with relatively
lower margins, grew by 2% to represent 87% of Hays Personnel's sales, but the higher margin permanent recruitment activity declined
by 15%. Since April, monthly net fee income has been broadly flat.
Despite tough market conditions, continued development of Hays Personnel remains a strategic priority. New offices have been
opened in the UK to serve growing sectors, including the public sector, and are already showing signs of success. International
development has continued with new offices opening for Hays Accountancy Personnel and Hays Montrose in Lyon and other major
French cities. Recent experience has reinforced our confidence in the long-term attractiveness of our specialist Personnel offering
within Continental Europe. The Hays Personnel Solutions contract with Liverpool Victoria for HR outsourcing has met all the customer's
and our objectives and provides a high quality reference site from which to develop other opportunities in this growing sector.
The division continues to deliver exceptional profitability and is well positioned to benefit from any strengthening of the market.
COMMERCIAL
The weaker year-on-year performance evidenced by a decline in operating profits to  27 .6 million resulted from significantly reduced
demand in the market for Hays Consulting & Solutions and continued investment in Hays IMS. In Hays IMS, significant operational
problems were encountered in undertaking a major reorganisation of storage sites at the same time as implementing a new IT system.
Profit reduction was exacerbated when management decided, correctly, to incur increased costs to maintain customer service. I am
pleased to report that the reorganisation is now progressing well.
Hays Consulting & Solutions has been adversely affected by the slow uptake by individual Police Forces of NMIS licensed by the
Police Information Technology Organisation (PITO). Consequently, Hays has incurred the significant cost of underutilised specialist
consultants whilst awaiting decisions from individual Police Forces. The system is fully installed in one Police Force, with 17 others in
various stages of implementation. The remaining Forces have yet to agree to accept NMIS, but discussions are under way with PITO to
ameliorate the situation. Other parts of Hays Consulting & Solutions have experienced weak demand as clients put IT projects on hold.
We do not see recovery in this sector in the medium term and have therefore taken the decision to write off  53.0 million of acquisition
goodwill and other assets in this division.
The office process outsourcing activities of Hays Document Technologies (billing), Hays Document Management (data input and
processing) and Hays Marketing Technologies (database management) have performed well. In particular, our offshore back office
processing activities in India, Sri Lanka and Poland have grown strongly and we anticipate further positive developments in the year
ahead. The market for both front and back office outsourcing remains attractive. Under the leadership of our new management team we
will be investing to strengthen our position in our chosen sectors. Hays plc 07
MAIL AND EXPRESS
In the UK, Hays Mail and Express is the leader in business-to-business mail delivery within the private sector, producing operating
profits of  50.2 million, down  1.1 million. In September 2001 we were granted three interim licences by the regulator, Postcomm.
These interim licences have attracted considerable customer interest and have enabled us to introduce DX Metro, which provides direct-
to-the-door deliveries in central London, Manchester and Edinburgh. However, in many instances, the licences awarded to Hays do not
provide sufficient certainty for customers to change from their current arrangements. Understandably, customers greatly value
security of supply, which as yet we have been unable to offer. This situation has been exacerbated by Postcomm's decision to delay the
start of permanent mail market liberalisation until January 2003. Hays has applied for a defined activity licence which will make all our
interim licences permanent and provide us with further opportunities to introduce innovative services.
To eliminate continued uncertainty for customers, we elected to settle our outstanding litigation with Royal Mail at a total cost of  6.4
million and this has been charged as an exceptional operating item in the profit and loss account. The impact of the enforced return of some
non-DX business to Royal Mail and the costs of developing new services contributed to the  1.1 million reduction in profit in the year.
Hays Mail and Express in Continental Europe has achieved an impressive turn around and a return to profitability for the year. This
business is now on a solid foundation and work is under way to further strengthen our position, particularly in France.
In summary, Hays Mail and Express is well placed to benefit from the liberalisation of the UK mail market and has the infrastructure
to develop unique services for selected customers.
LOGISTICS
Hays Logistics' operating profits of  45.7 million were down from  52.6 million in the previous year. This was in line with the logistics
market as a whole. The division's results include the launch costs of developing Hays Container Services, Inc., the reusable crates
business in the USA, and continued investment in Hays Fourth Party Solutions (Hays 4PS).
Hays Continental Logistics achieved a substantial profit improvement in all countries except Germany, where the high costs of
reorganising the Iveco contract held back profits.
Progress with Hays 4PS has continued and we anticipate the launch of a pilot operation in Benelux before the end of the year.
However, the achievement of more chargeable revenues has reduced overall net revenue investment in Hays 4PS by  1.4 million to  2.5
million per annum.
Hays Logistics UK experienced continued margin pressure in the retail sector which was exacerbated by declining volumes handled
by the retail support network. Lower volume growth in the technology sector was offset by efficiency improvements in the reverse
logistics operations. Our crate management business operated on behalf of retailers experienced substantial growth with the roll out of
the Sainsbury's contract.
Overall, the Hays Logistics business is performing as we expect in tough market conditions. The business pipeline has been
strengthened to provide a basis for growth in the period ahead with significant contract wins and renewals that include blue chip
customers such as Carrefour, Energizer, Scottish Courage and Waitrose.
MANAGEMENT
As market conditions deteriorated during the year, Hays' management team targeted further investment and development to good
effect. While costs were managed aggressively, the Group's infrastructure has been strengthened, particularly in the area of
management information.
I am delighted that our search for a new Chief Executive reached a successful conclusion with the announcement of Colin Matthews'
appointment and he joins the Board as Chief Executive Officer on 1 November 2002. Colin brings with him a vast international and
service industry experience, having worked extensively in Europe and North America in senior positions for major companies.
In addition, it is a pleasure to advise that our Board has been greatly strengthened by the appointments of Pierre Danon, Chief
Executive Officer of BT Retail, and Lesley Knox, a founder director of the investment bank British Linen Advisers and a director of a
number of other public companies. The Board is already benefiting from the broad and varied experience that these new non-Executive
Directors bring to its deliberations.
I would like to thank all the staff in Hays for a year of tremendous hard work, which has moved the Group forward to a stronger and
more effective base for its future development. Customer service has remained their absolute priority and this provides a solid
foundation for strong and enduring relationships for the future.
PROSPECTS
A number of the markets in which we operate continue to be volatile and uncertain with little customer confidence to commit to
development. In Hays Personnel, net fee income since April has been broadly flat, whilst in Hays Logistics, Hays Commercial and Hays
Mail and Express the trends seen in the second half of the year to 30 June 2002 have continued. Trading conditions remain difficult and,
looking ahead, we see no sign of improvement in the short-term. Consequently, we are investing in our businesses to enhance their
market position and to develop the effectiveness of our service offerings to customers. Service excellence, combined with our strong
cash flow, will ensure that Hays is well positioned for the upturn when it happens. We continue to see good potential for our specialist
activities and will vigorously pursue the opportunities as they arise.
Bob Lawson
Chairman
4 October 2002