 2
Healthcare Locums plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Without doubt, 2011 has been the most 
challenging year in the history of Healthcare 
Locums plc.
In January, the Company announced the 
suspension of its shares following the 
discovery of serious accounting irregularities 
and that the financial performance of the 
UK business was well below the then 
market expectations. The UK business was 
not generating free cash and the business 
model had not been adapted sufficiently to 
accommodate changing market conditions. 
The investigation of the irregularities took 
several months to complete and led to the 
restatement of the 2009 accounts when the 
2010 accounts were published in August. 
During the course of the investigations it 
became clear that the capital structure of 
the Group and the costs of servicing its 
debt were unsustainable. In July, the Board 
announced the disposal of the Homecare 
Division of Healthcare Australia (Homecare ) 
which raised approximately  20.3m in cash 
that was used to reduce Group debt. This 
was insufficient to restore financial viability 
and the Board sought a capital injection and 
renegotiated bank facilities. The Refinancing 
was approved at a General Meeting of the 
Company in September following which the 
Company's shares were readmitted to trading. 
All of these issues had to be managed 
against a background of difficult market 
conditions, especially relating to supplies to 
the UK's major customer, the National Health 
Service (NHS ), which was implementing its 
own stringent cost saving measures.
The sale of Homecare and the Refinancing 
completed in September restructured the 
balance sheet and removed a major source 
of risk to the ongoing financial viability of the 
Group. At 31 December 2011, the Group had 
bank and finance lease debt net of cash of 
 23.4m. In addition, the Group has a  10.2m 
Zero Coupon Loan Note (fair valued at  2.6m 
at 31 December 2011) that is not repayable 
in normal circumstances until 30 September 
2021.
BOARD AND GOVERNANCE
During the year, the entire Board was 
replaced. Alan Walker the Chairman, the 
Deputy Chairman Alasdair Liddell, the 
Executive Vice Chairman Kate Bleasdale, the 
Chief Financial Officer Diane Jarvis, and the 
Chief Operating Officer Mo Dedat had all 
been removed from or left the Board by the 
end of March. David Henderson and I were 
appointed to the Board in February and we 
were joined by Stephen Burke and Andy 
McRae as Group CEO and Managing Director 
of HCA in Australia respectively in May. Colin 
Whipp served as Interim Finance Director 
from May until September and Bill Jessup 
served in that capacity from October until April 
2012. Mark Andrews, formerly a partner with 
law firm SNR Denton, joined the Board as a 
Non-executive Director in October and Sue 
Bygrave was appointed as the permanent 
Chief Financial Officer on 6 February 2012. We 
now have a settled and experienced Board 
comprising three executive Directors and three 
Non-executive Directors. Martin Hughes was 
appointed as Company Secretary in March 
2011. 
Under the former Board, corporate governance 
had been extremely poor and an immediate 
action of the new Board has been to improve 
the policies and procedures relating to the 
governance of the Company. We aspire to 
have the sort of governance regime that 
would be found in a well-run FTSE 250 
company. We have not completed this 
programme yet but significant steps have 
been made.
The Board has appointed new auditors 
(Deloitte), lawyers (SNR Denton), nominated 
adviser and Brokers (Investec) and 
remuneration advisers (PwC) and now has a 
team of advisers that are able to guide the 
Board and the Company in the future.
STRATEGY
Following the successful Refinancing the new 
team set about ensuring the stabilisation of 
the business after what had been a period 
of unprecedented disruption. In the UK, 
the transformation of the Company to one 
that puts the satisfaction of its customers' 
requirements at the heart of its business is 
well underway. Provision of locums to the 
NHS through existing framework agreements 
is now the normal way of doing business. 
We believe that a quality-led offering with 
pricing transparency is the best way of 
building a long-term relationship with the 
NHS and we have invested in people, 
processes and systems to promote that 
transparency and to improve standards of 
clinical compliance. We are also investing in 
software-led solutions - HCL Clarity - that will 
deliver significant savings to our customers 
by providing visibility and control to reduce 
the cost of agency spend and optimise the 
substantive workforce, without compromising 
the quality of care. In Australia, opportunities 
for organic growth exist, in particular, by the 
further development of our nursing agency 
business in the eastern states and the 
rollout of the existing doctor locum business 
Implementing new 
growth strategies will 
generate long-term 
improvements in financial 
performance.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 3
Healthcare Locums plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
nationally. With the opportunities available 
in these two sectors we no longer see the 
allied health professionals market as a priority 
for expansion in Australia. We can now 
concentrate on executing the strategy to grow 
the business, both in the UK and Australia, 
and thereby generate acceptable financial 
returns for our shareholders.
The growth strategy will be underpinned by 
strong operational and cost control. During 
the latter part of 2011 we made some 
important appointments of senior leaders 
in UK business development, IT, talent and 
people management and the operating 
divisions in the UK and Australia. Although 
this has increased costs, it was essential to 
build a widely skilled management team 
that is capable of delivering the Company's 
strategic vision. During 2012 we will be rolling 
out a new UK front-office IT system capable 
of delivering real-time accurate management 
information and embedding operational and 
compliance controls. Once implemented, this 
system, known as Itris, is expected to make a 
meaningful impact on net margins. 
RESULTS FOR YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 
2011
The revenue for the year was  227.1m 
(2010:  154.9m) and the adjusted loss from 
continuing operations before tax was 
( 12.9)m (2010:  (63.6)m). The adjusted EBITDA, 
before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 
highlighted items and share-based charges or 
credits increased from a loss of  (0.1)m in 2010 
to a profit of  5.9m in 2011.
The results for 2011 are analysed in full in 
the Financial Review. These include the first 
full-year contribution from our Australian 
businesses acquired in 2010. The results of 
the Homecare division of Healthcare Australia 
( HCA ) have been shown as discontinued 
operations. Both 2011 and 2010 results 
include items that have been highlighted in 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income to show the underlying performance 
of the business. There is a restatement of 
the 2010 balance sheet in relation to HCA 
acquisition accounting and an impairment 
of the UK Social Care business. These are 
accounting restatements with no ongoing 
cash impact.
DIVIDENDS
Currently we are not able to pay dividends 
as we have negative distributable reserves 
and our banking arrangements prohibit 
us from declaring dividends until the 
outstanding amount under the Syndicated 
Facility Agreement (SFA ) has been reduced 
to less than  35m. Despite this, the Board 
recognises that dividends should form part 
of shareholders' investment returns and 
the Board will be working towards the 
reintroduction of dividend payments as soon 
as possible.
After taking legal and accounting advice, the 
Board has concluded that the dividend paid 
on 10 January 2011 was unlawful as the then 
Board should have known at the date that 
the dividend was approved and paid that the 
Company had insufficient reserves available 
to make the payment. The Board has been 
unable as yet to come to a definite conclusion 
about the legality of the dividends paid on 
1 April and 25 June 2010. No action will be 
taken to recover unlawful dividends from 
shareholders in general. However, the Board 
is considering whether remedies are available 
against former directors to recover unlawful 
dividends paid to them and damages for 
breach of duty in authorising the relevant 
dividends. 
LITIGATION AND GOING CONCERN
The Board has previously announced two 
major claims against the Company, one from 
the former Executive Vice Chairman and the 
other from a number of shareholders. These 
are described in Note 28. No provision has 
been made in these accounts for future 
legal costs or for any settlement or adverse 
determination arising from the litigation. 
While the Board continues to adopt the 
going concern basis, these claims and the 
other matters described in the going concern 
section of the Financial Review, give rise to 
a material uncertainty regarding the Group's 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
 
PEOPLE
2011 has been a tremendously turbulent 
year for our staff. There has been a complete 
change in the Board and extensive change 
in the senior leadership of the Group. Matters 
emerged during the course of investigations 
that were highly damaging to the Company. 
During parts of the year, the future of the 
Company was in doubt and there were 
long periods when it was not possible to 
keep staff well-informed because of the 
uncertainty of negotiations with third parties. 
At the same time, in the UK, there was also 
a significant change in strategy towards 
on-framework business. Despite this, our 
staff have overwhelmingly stayed loyal to 
the Company and it is primarily through their 
personal commitment and their engagement 
with our customers that the Company has 
retained its market position. For this, and their 
unstinting efforts, especially during the period 
leading up to the Refinancing, the Board and 
shareholders owe them a substantial debt of 
gratitude. 
OUTLOOK
Although there will be many risks and 
challenges ahead, we believe that 2011 
saw the nadir in the Company's fortunes. The 
Group has been refinanced; a new leadership 
has brought stability and is implementing 
new growth strategies to generate long-
term improvements in financial performance. 
Despite all the issues of 2011, the Group 
remains a leading business in healthcare 
recruitment in both the UK and Australia. 
In the short-term we have the uncertainty 
regarding two major legal cases to deal 
with. Once legacy issues are addressed, the 
Board and I are confident that the Group can 
prosper.
PETER SULLIVAN
Chairman
13 April 2012