 HENLYS GROUP plc 2
This Report and Financial Statements cover the
12-month period ended 30 September 2003,
following the change in 2002 of our accounting
reference date from 31 December to 30 September.
As referred to in the Financial Director's Review,
the contribution from TransBus International
included in the Financial Statements covers the
12-month period to June 2003 as a result of
different financial years now adopted by the
Group and The Mayflower Corporation plc, the
majority owner of this associate company.
Overview
This year has been a very difficult one for the
Group. In North America our main markets
remained subdued as a result of pressure on US
Federal and State expenditure budgets and the
negative effect of continuing terrorism alerts, 
the Iraq War and the SARS virus on levels of 
both business and tourist travel. In addition the
Blue Bird results were adversely affected by
major but temporary manufacturing problems 
at its school bus body and assembly plant in
North Georgia. In the UK, TransBus maintained
its market leading position but faced increased
competition from Continental European bus and
coach manufacturers.
Results
Total turnover for the 12 months ended 30
September 2003 was  516.7m (9 months to 30
September 2002  522.8m). This includes
 96.4m relating to our share of TransBus (9
months to 30 September 2002  44.2m). In
overall terms, sales of commercial bus and coach
products were lower, due to the planned model
changeover in Blue Bird and the continuing
downturn in the North American market for
touring coaches. School bus sales were
significantly down, primarily due to output
constraints at the North Georgia plant in the
second half, but motorhome sales held up well.
Operating profit for the 12-months, before
exceptional costs and amortisation of goodwill,
was  15.2m compared with  34.5m (restated) in
the 9 months to 30 September 2002. Pre-tax
profit, before exceptional costs and goodwill
amortisation, was  2.0m against  23.4m
(restated) for the previous 9 month period. There
was a net exceptional charge of  16.2m (9
months to 30 September 2002  8.2m) for the
12 months, mainly relating to one-off costs of
quality rectification and production inefficiencies
at North Georgia but also including severance
costs for people released at Blue Bird and TransBus
as part of cost reduction programmes. The loss
after taxation for the year was  35.0m (9 months
to September 2002, loss of  5.6m - restated). 
The weakness of the US dollar had an important
impact on the year's reported results. Profit was
reduced by  0.8m as a result of lower earnings
from Pr vost on its sales to the USA, net of savings
in the Group' s US dollar denominated interest costs.
This was offset by the benefit of  1.6m due to a
change of accounting policy relating to foreign
exchange translation, as more fully described in
the Finance Director's Review. The prior year's
results have been restated for this policy change.
Despite State budget restrictions school bus
demand in the USA and Canada stabilised in this
period following two years of decline. It is
therefore particularly disappointing that
production problems at the Blue Bird North
Georgia facility prevented the Group taking full
advantage of this and overshadowed a number
of other rationalisation and development projects
that the Company completed successfully.
Following extensive management changes at Blue
Bird, the North Georgia issues are now being
resolved and the company is well equipped for the
next phase of manufacturing improvement which
will greatly improve our competitive position.
One highly successful element of Blue Bird's
school bus activity in this period was the design
and launch of its own chassis for the largest
volume segment of this market. The Blue Bird
Type-C chassis, and the brand new school bus
based on that chassis, were successfully
launched during 2003 and have been very well
received in the marketplace. The other new
products mentioned in last year's report,
designed to give Blue Bird strong growth in the
commercial bus, coach and motorhome markets,
are also well advanced. Some models have now
been launched and, despite having to address
some of the early engineering issues which often
occur on the introduction of an ambitious new
product range, customer reaction is very positive
and the order book is now growing.
Pr vost Car Inc faced another challenging year,
as the market for its luxury touring coaches
showed further deterioration. The Canadian
market, where Pr vost is strong as the main
domestic producer, was the worst affected by
the SARS outbreak, receiving high profile
attention when the WHO for a short period
advised against travel to Toronto. In contrast
Pr vost's other activity, the supply of custom-
built coach shells for conversion into luxury
motorhomes, has seen stable volumes and
currently offers good growth prospects as other
applications are developed for the shell structures
- one of the best prospects is conversion of shells
into mobile command vehicles for the recently
established US Department of Homeland
Security. In response to the lower coach volumes
Pr vost has continued to reduce fixed costs and
use less working capital.
Nova Bus successfully completed its exit from the
Buy America  market, and improved its
financial performance despite the lower volumes
available from this strategy. Steady progress was
Joint Statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive
The new Wanderlodge M380 - a new high-end
motorhome with room-expanding slide-out suites.
Blue Bird's All American Rear Engine school bus
incorporates the latest safety and strength features,
including flat front and exterior mirror system for 
better sight lines.
Henlys A/R  2003 08  12/15/03  11:16 AM  Page 4 HENLYS GROUP plc 3
made in improving labour efficiency on the long-
term order for Quebec Province which now
provides the main production load for this plant,
and the sales function was re-organised to
pursue business with other Canadian provinces.
Negotiations on the renewal of a labour contract
for shop-floor employees broke down in late
June resulting in management declaring a
lockout which continued to the end of the
financial year. Management and staff were able
to complete and deliver all critical orders over
this period, so customer image remains positive
and the dispute is now resolved.
The main focus of TransBus this year shifted to
cost reduction. Substantial labour cost savings
were achieved, as well as increased flexibility to
balance capacity across different TransBus sites
producing similar vehicles. Another initiative to
protect its leading market share is the launch of
new vehicles targeted at key market segments.
The Profile launched in October 2002 has been
central to the achievement of a further 20%
growth in coach sales this year and the Enviro 200
midibus, with improved passenger capacity and the
option of an environmentally-friendly diesel/electric
hybrid  drive, should sustain the leading position
of TransBus in this vehicle category.
Re-financing
Following recent announcements of discussions with
our lenders regarding the re-financing of our banking
facilities, the Board has agreed new facilities of
US$325.8m with its existing bank syndicate. 
Scheduled amortisation payments totalling $40m
will be made by the end of September 2005. By
31 December 2005 a further $135m of these
facilities are to be refinanced. Following this
repayment, the balance is repayable before the
end of December 2008. The new facilities, which
are on a secured basis, are conditional on the
Group meeting financial covenants which have
been set in relation to expectations of future
trading performance throughout the period of
these arrangements. Pricing on the new facilities
will be higher, in line with market terms and
recent trading performance.
Dividend
In light of the disappointing trading performance
in the last 6-months of the period the Board has
decided not to recommend a final dividend for
the year ended 30 September 2003. The total
dividend for the year will therefore be the 1p
paid as an interim dividend on 12 August 2003.
Despite the belief that this decision is
appropriate in the present circumstances, the
Board reaffirms its intention of reverting to
dividend payments at an appropriate level as
soon as there is evidence of a sustainable
recovery in the Group's financial performance.
Board
Robert Wood (Chairman) and Neil Beresford
(Executive Director) retired on 30 April 2003 and
we thank them for their contribution to the
company. Mike Ost became Non-Executive
Chairman from 1 May 2003.
Although the appointments fall outside the
financial year covered by the Report we are
delighted to announce the following Board
changes effective from 1 December 2003:
- Chris Woodwark joins the Group as Senior
Non-Executive Director.
- Bill Gillespie joins as Finance Director Designate.
- Jeff Bust is appointed to the Board and
retains his current position as President &
CEO of Blue Bird Corporation. Jeff replaces
Richard Maddox, who leaves the Group
Board to focus full time on his position as VP
Sales & Marketing for Blue Bird. 
Further information on our new board members,
can be found on page 15.
Employees
We would like to thank employees throughout
the Group for all their efforts during another
challenging year. 
Outlook
Operational management has been strengthened
substantially during the year, and the new team in
Blue Bird is making good progress in dealing with
the North Georgia challenges and reducing the
overall cost base in line with the more competitive
market conditions. In addition, the remainder of
Blue Bird's new motorhome, commercial bus and
coach models will be launched within the next
12 months. As a result of these moves, combined
with recent more positive signs of US economic
recovery and generally improving travel statistics,
the Board is confident that a turnaround in
trading performance can be achieved
commencing in the 2003/4 financial year.
M S Ost 
(Chairman)
T A Welsh
(Chief Executive)
FIRST MODELS OF BLUE BIRD'S NEW MOTORHOME,
COMMERCIAL BUS AND COACH RANGES ARE NOW
LAUNCHED AND HAVE BEEN WELL RECEIVED IN
THE MARKET PLACE.
Blue Bird's Express 4500, now in the market launch
phase, delivers multipurpose versatility and reliability 
at a significantly lower price point than other 
commuter coaches.
Henlys A/R  2003 08  12/15/03  11:16 AM  Page 5