 Henry boot plc
annual report 
and financial 
statements 
2008
04
Given the very difficult market conditions that have arisen in the UK property 
market during 2008, I am pleased to report a further set of solid results, with 
the exception of our investment property portfolio where we have seen falling 
values throughout the year. The year under review saw the economic backdrop 
in which we operate become very difficult indeed; successive rises in interest 
rates through 2007 and into 2008, followed by a dramatic tightening of liquidity, 
have severely affected both the housing and property investment markets.
Against this backdrop we are pleased to report:
  completion of several large land sales;
  a very strong year in our construction division;
  completion of most developments in progress at the start of 2008; and
  gearing reduced by a third, with the prospect of making further reductions in 2009.
We continued to operate through our national network of offices, creating 
valuable long-term opportunities in land promotion and property investment and 
development. We recognise that it will be some time before house builders are 
able to replenish their land banks or that property yields make development the 
profitable business it had historically become. Our construction division and the 
investment property rentals generate a growing level of recurring income, though 
this will not replace the scale of the  deal-driven' profits previously achieved by 
our property development and land promotion activities.
We expect to face a very difficult market for some considerable time, however, 
the key strategic focus of the business is:
  to protect the retained asset value we have created;
  to continue to manage debt levels down from the prudent levels currently carried;
   to continue to improve the planning position of the land and development 
portfolios and realise profits where possible; and
  to continue the profitable operation of our construction division.
I firmly believe that this combination of actions will allow us to manage our way 
constructively through this recessionary phase and in due course benefit from the 
recovery. Our quality development opportunities and a number of well located, 
consented greenfield land sites will be in demand by house builders when 
confidence and stability returns to the market.
reSuLTS
Revenue was  193.7m (2007:  124.8m) arising from larger land transactions and 
strong construction division activity in the period. Gross trading profit increased 
by 53% to  44.0m (2007:  28.8m) after a strong contribution from land trading 
activities. However, profit before tax decreased by 59% to  19.3m (2007:  46.5m) 
as the revaluation surplus of  18.1m achieved in 2007 was reversed by a deficit 
of  19.6m in 2008. Of this deficit,  14.9m (2007: surplus  16.8m) arose from 
the revaluation of our shopping centre at Ayr. Property disposal profit of  0.5m 
(2007:  3.5m) was attributable to a number of small sales. Basic earnings per 
share decreased 56% to 10.8p (2007: 24.5p). T otal net assets increased 4% 
to  190.1m (2007:  182.2m), representing a net asset value per share of 146p 
(2007: 139p). Gearing reduced by a third to 26%, with net debt of  49.3m at 
the year end (2007: gearing 39%, net debt  70.9m), as the cash generated 
from land sales was offset by the completion of the majority of our current 
development programme.
dIvIdendS 
The excellent trading result and strong cash generation in a difficult 
market allow the Directors to recommend a maintained final dividend of 
3.75p per share (2007: 3.75p) which, together with the interim dividend of 
1.25p per share (2007: 1.25p), gives an unchanged total dividend for the 
year of 5.0p (2007: 5.0p). Dividend cover has reduced due to the revaluation 
deficit to 2.2 times (2007: 4.9 times). The final dividend, which is subject 
to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2009, 
will be paid on 28 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register on 15 May 2009. 
The Board recognises that we must in these unprecedented, challenging 
times continually review our dividend policy. However, it also acknowledges 
the importance of the dividend to its shareholders and will therefore endeavour 
to generate profit and cash sufficient to continue to provide stakeholders with 
an attractive yield on their investment.
CHAiRMAn'S STATeMenT
John Reis, Chairman
Given the very difficult 
market conditions that 
have arisen in the UK 
property market during 
2008, i am pleased to 
report a further set 
of solid results, with 
the exception of our 
investment property 
portfolio where we 
have seen falling 
values throughout 
the year. 
  
_BHY_ar08_front.indd   4 08/04/2009   12:24:06 Henry boot plc
annual report 
and financial 
statements 
2008
05
performance bencHmarKInG and reTurnS
T otal Shareholder Value (TSV), calculated as the increase in net asset value plus 
dividends per share, created in the year was 12.0p per share (2007: 28.1p), 
a 9% (2007: 24%) return on opening net assets. Although the Group achieved 
a record trading profit and, despite the impact of revaluation deficits, positive 
net profit before tax, increased net assets and a maintained dividend, it has 
continued to feel the effects of negative sentiment towards the publicly quoted 
property and construction sector. As a consequence, T otal Shareholder Return 
(TSR) in the period was -105.0p (2007: -41.9p), a -62% return on the opening 
price on 1 January 2008 of 169p. TSR is calculated as the change in share price 
plus dividends per share. These returns compare to an average TSR of -42% 
on the FTSE Construction Sector, -47% on the Real Estate Sector and -44% 
on the FTSE Small Cap Index. These sectors have been chosen as the best 
comparative benchmarks against which to monitor our Company.
empL oyeeS
On behalf of my fellow Directors, I express my sincere thanks to all the 
Group's employees for their contribution in achieving yet another excellent 
trading performance. There is little doubt that the next phase in the economic 
cycle is going to be very difficult for the UK. It is our people who, through their 
commitment, skill and hard work, will help us manage our way through this 
period to be in a good position to capitalise on the opportunities arising 
as the UK recovers from this recession.
STra TeG y The Group strategy continues to focus on land promotion, property investment 
and development, with the support of construction, PFI and plant hire activities. 
We recognise that profit from land promotion and property development is affected 
by the cyclical nature of the property market and is a business opportunity 
where the timing and scale of profitability is difficult to predict in the short-term, 
but should again be attractive in the long-term.
It remains our objective that, as our subsidiaries create surplus funds and as 
prudent cash management allows, we will invest in those developments which, 
in our view, offer the best rental and capital growth opportunities. However, 
investment property yields are currently at such a level that it is more beneficial 
to acquire rather than develop. Therefore, in the short-term, it is our intention 
to reduce our development pipeline and manage our investment portfolio to 
generate cash whilst protecting the net asset value created over the last ten 
years. We will also focus on achieving planning consents on our greenfield land 
sites to profit from the eventual recovery in the housing sector. The defensive, 
cash-generative qualities of our businesses will come to the fore in the 
recessionary phase of the economic cycle, a period from which we intend 
to emerge with our balance sheet and cash position in good order and 
ready to take advantage of the cyclical upturn when it occurs.
ouTL ooK
As I said last year, the general economic climate within which our business 
operates will be very turbulent for some considerable time. I believe that the 
aforementioned strategy is the right one for the long-term success of our business. 
We continue to benefit from the recurring profit, cash generation and return on 
assets provided by our construction, PFI and plant hire businesses. We have a 
strategic land portfolio of the highest quality, in the right locations, steadily moving 
through the planning process. We strongly believe that, although land values have 
reduced significantly, so too have house builder inventories, and this gives us a 
great opportunity to profit as house builders restock their land banks and move 
away from the town centre apartment market.
Our broad mix of businesses and prudently geared balance sheet, allied to 
a cautious strategy, gives the Board confidence that we will manage the next 
phase of the cycle successfully and deliver growing value to shareholders 
once again.
JohN Reis
chaIrman
2 aPrIl 2009
Summary of 
CHAiRMAn'S 
STa TemenT
  Further set of solid results
 	 Record	trading	profit
  Strong cash generation
  Gearing reduced by a third
  T otal net assets increased
 	 Maintained	final	dividend
 	 Dividend	cover	2.2	times
 	 	 12p	total	shareholder	value	
- a return of 9% on opening 
net	asset	value
review of tHe year
_BHY_ar08_front.indd   5 08/04/2009   12:24:07