 2004 proved to be an extremely difficult
year for the Group. At its outset we had
expectations that profitability, both
operating and pre-tax, would increase
significantly over the previous year, with the
benefit of full year contributions from the
acquisitions of Cabal Communications Ltd
and Paragon Publishing Ltd in 2003. We
also expected to make significant
reductions in our debt.
During the first half of the year it became
evident that the Group faced fundamental
problems in achieving these goals. Changes
were made to our senior management
team, with Mark Simpson taking over the
role of Chief Executive Officer, Owen Davies
arriving as the Group's new Finance
Director and I have become non-executive
Chairman. Swift action was taken to
improve our business disciplines and
significantly reorganise operations. The
result has been a more coherent approach
to improving editorial content, circulation
and advertising revenues. As we indicated
at the time we did not expect any real
benefits from our actions to show through
until the second half of 2005.
The scale of the task that faced new
management is evident from the financial
results for 2004. While turnover increased
by 5% to  113.8m (2003:  108.1m), the
Group made an operating profit, before
interest, amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, and before exceptional
costs, of  8.3m (2003:  10.1m) and a
statutory pre-tax loss of  92.3m (2003:
 25.7m). The Group ended the year with
balance sheet net debt of  62.6m (2003:
 61.9m). Adding to the disappointment for
shareholders, dividend payments on the
ordinary shares were suspended. As the
Board has stated before, the Group's poor
performance has largely resulted from:
 previous failure to integrate adequately
the businesses that had been acquired
in recent years leading to management
drift and loss of focus throughout the
businesses of the Group
  financial controls and management
information systems which failed to
keep pace with the increased scale of
the business
  financial pressures arising from the
burden of too much debt for the scale
of the business, constraining
investment in our titles and
development of our business.
It was against this background that the
new management team set in train a
financial and strategic review which
culminated in:
 a refocus of the activities of the Group
on consumer publishing
  an urgent and more extensive plan to
dispose of non-core assets to reduce
the debt burden
 a number of exceptional items
including balance sheet writedowns,
some of which relate to prior period
items.
Since announcing this strategy in December
2004 we have disposed of Highbury
Business (BCom), Highbury Local
Publications, the Group's head office (The
Publishing House), Highbury Direct Media
and Chartsearch, in total realising estimated
net proceeds of  17.0m. In addition we
have closed Highbury Wyvern, our
fulfilment business. We also announced the
projected sale of our South African division.
Despite these major strategic actions, our
core businesses have, however, continued
to find trading conditions tough and some
titles, notably in our home interest and
lifestyle portfolios, have continued to prove
disappointing mainly due to constraints on
recruitment and promotional spend and the
longer than anticipated time taken to
reverse prior under-investment. Action has
been taken to improve these titles but, as
stated above, it will be awhile yet before
any real benefits start to show through. 
Meanwhile we continue to face significant
financial pressures which impose
constraints on our abilities to further
improve our competitiveness.
It was against this background that your
Board concluded earlier this year that the
best way forward for all our stakeholders
was to agree a recommended offer from
Future plc for Highbury House as a whole,
which was duly announced on 14 February
2005. The Offer valued the issued share
capital of Highbury at approximately
 31.6m and each share at 10.0 pence.
Prior to this announcement, discussions and
due diligence had been undertaken over a
lengthy period. Early in these discussions,
we were keen to understand if the
proposed merger of our businesses would
raise any regulatory issues regarding
competition. Both parties, together with
their respective advisers took all possible
steps to conduct a detailed analysis of the
markets affected in order to enable them to
reach a conclusion that The Office of Fair
Trading (OFT) was unlikely to seek to refer
the bid to the Competition Commission.
Our decision to recommend the Offer from
Future was taken only following the most
careful consideration of the likelihood of a
referral and on advice that the risk was low.
We were therefore astonished when the
OFT announced the referral of the Offer to
the Competition Commission on 14 April
2005. We believe strongly that the OFT's
principal concerns, relating to the
combination of our video games magazines
are fundamentally flawed.
Nevertheless, as a result of the OFT's
referral, the Future Offer lapsed in
accordance with the rules of the Take Over
Code and Future has announced that it no
longer wishes to pursue an Offer for
Highbury House. In the period between the
announcement of the offer from Future
and its ultimate lapsing, we have suffered
inevitable operational drift. We now have a
serious task on our hands to rebuild
confidence amongst our staff and in our
business as well as put in place, as an
immediate priority, a major debt reduction
programme.
It is clear to the Board that swift action
must now be taken to restore the
confidence of all the Group's stakeholders.
With support from our Banking Syndicate,
the Board has concluded that the best way
forward is to identify, from our range of
businesses and portfolio of titles, a suitable
vehicle that can be the core business going
forward whilst at the same time enabling
us to sell enough of our assets to bring
down debt to more sustainable levels.
To this end we have negotiated a deal with
Future plc, which was announced on 
29 April 2005 whereby they would acquire
for  30.5m cash the following portfolio of
Highbury titles:
Fast Car, Fast Bikes, Classics, The Guide, ten
puzzle magazines, our women's lifestyle
titles (Health & Fitness, Pregnancy), DVD
Review, our home entertainment
technology magazines, Highbury
Entertainment Business (our home
entertainment trade titles), DJ Magazine,
Pro Cycling and our USA business.
The assets to be acquired by Future had a
combined turnover of approximately
 34.1m in the year ended 31 December
2004.
We are also in the process of finding buyers
for our remaining Lifestyle and Special
Interest portfolios as well as for our South
African business. Following the completion
of these disposals, we shall have as our
core business going forward, the former
Paragon Publishing, based in Bournemouth
employing just under 200 staff. Originally
acquired by Highbury in 2003, this division
has a dedicated and enthusiastic
management team and has, throughout
the turmoil of the past 18 months,
Chairman's statement For the year ended 31 December 2004
2 continued to trade successfully whilst
meeting its targets. This business has a
strong position in the key market of
videogames and is therefore well placed to
take advantage of the next iteration in
console formats expected from early 2006.
It has also demonstrated a consistent track
record in profitably exploiting the
continuing advances in entertainment
technology such as digital photography,
computing and the internet. We have every
confidence that this will continue and that
these skills can be increasingly applied to
other consumer special interest markets.
Given the consequent downsizing of the
Group's operations and its reduction in
market capitalisation, the Board may
consider, in consultation with shareholders,
a move of our stock market listing to the
AIM market and, at the appropriate time,
will seek to introduce additional equity into
the business to improve its capital structure
and enhance the opportunity for long-term
growth.
It is obviously with considerable
disappointment that we have had to take
this action and we are mindful of the lost
value suffered by shareholders. However,
for the reasons outlined above and as also
indicated in the BCom disposal circular,
posted to shareholders on 11 March 2005,
and the Future Offer document, we
currently find ourselves with no alternative
if we are to maintain the long term support
of our Banking Syndicate and have a
realistic chance of retaining any value for
our shareholders.
I wish to pay tribute to all those employees
of our Group who have stuck with us
during this extremely difficult time. I would
also like to convey our thanks and best
wishes to those employees of divested
businesses. My senior management team
have worked incredibly hard to change and
improve the culture and structure of the
business since last August but the burden
of our debt has at all times been a serious
constraint. I do wish, however, to single out
Mark Simpson and Owen Davies who have
worked tirelessly on behalf of all our
stakeholders in very difficult circumstances.
While many challenges lie ahead we remain
committed to securing a future for the
remaining business and our employees and
creating the opportunity for shareholders to
retain a stake in a stable business with
prospects for growth.
Simon Neathercoat
Chairman
5 May 2005
Highbury House Communications PLC Annual report and financial statements 2004 3