 6
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 HIGHLAND GOLD MINING LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S 
I
CREATING THE pLATFORM FOR  
ONGOING GROWTH
It	gives	me	great	pleasure	to	report	
to	you	on	a	year	which,	while	not	
without	its	challenges,	witnessed	
a	significant	expansion	of	your	
Company's	asset	base	in	line	with	
management's	declared	objective	
of	pursuing	a	dual	organic	and	
acquisitive	growth	strategy.
Such	expansion	is	designed	to	
underwrite	our	output	potential	in	
both	the	short	and	medium	term	
and	is	well	illustrated	by	our	year	
end	completion	of	a	doubling	of	our	
interest	in	the	Novoshirokinskoye	
(Novo)	mine	to	96.6%	following	
the	acquisition	of	a	48.3%	interest	
in	Novo-Shirokinsky	Rudnik,	the	
owner	of	the	mine,	from	our	joint	
venture	partner	LLP	Kazzinc.	
This	transaction,	financed	entirely	
through	the	Company's	cash	reserves,	
involved	a	total	consideration	of	
US$110 million	which	comprised	
US$47.5 million	in	respect	of	the	
equity	and	US$62.5 million	in	respect	
of	the	repayment	of	Kazzinc's	share	of	
intercompany	debt.
Novo	is	an	efficient	and	profitable	
operation	which	represents	a	 known	
quantity'	to	management	and	your	
Board	is	pleased	to	have	taken	the	
opportunity,	against	a	favourable	
market	background	in	relation	to	
base	and	precious	metals,	to	enhance	
a	major	asset	through	a	transaction	
which	will	have	an	immediate	
and	positive	impact	on	our	annual	
production	capability	and	the	scale	of	
our	reserves.	
The	improved	output	at	Novo	in	2011	
is	covered	in	detail	by	Valery	Oyf,	our	
Chief	Executive,	in	his	Operational	
Review	and	serves	to	underline	one	of	
the	principal	aims	of	this	investment,	
namely	stability	of	production.	Some	
450,000	tonnes	of	ore	are	expected	to	
be	mined	and	processed	at	Novo	in	
2012	and	we	are	looking	to	optimise	
throughput	at	550,000	tonnes	per	
annum	in	2013	and	beyond.
With	an	eye	to	organic	growth,	2011	
also	saw	the	onset	of	construction	of	
the	second	phase	of	the	stand-alone	
processing	plant	at	the	Belaya	Gora	
complex	in	the	Khabarovsk	region.	
Notwithstanding	an	initial	delay,	
relating	to	the	receipt	of	final	approval	
from	government	authorities	(now	
awarded),	commissioning	of	the	
plant	is	still	scheduled	for	the	fourth	
quarter	of	2012	and	management	
remains	committed	to	achieving		
this	target.	
An	in-house	review	of	site	grade	
control	procedures	was	rewarded	with	
improved	ore	quality	at	Belaya	Gora	
where	the	trucking	of	select	ore	to	our	
nearby	Mnogovershinnoye	(MNV)	
mine	for	processing	will	continue	in	
the	first	half	of	2012.
I	have	highlighted	the	Novo	and	
Belaya	Gora	developments	because	
both	projects,	seen	alongside	our	
principal	MNV mine,	are	integral	
to	the	establishment	of	an	enlarged	
production	base:	the	requisite	
platform	for	the	significant	growth		
in	output	envisaged	over	the		
ensuing	years.	
One	of	the	highlights,	in	this	context,	
was	the	outcome	of	an	independent	
Joint	Ore	Reserves	Committee	(JORC)	 7
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S 
compliant	audit	at	MNV,	carried		
out	between	June	2010	and	July	2011,	
which	confirmed	a	190%	increase	
in	the	project's	proven	and	probable	
reserves	to	622,000 oz:	an	evaluation	
that	effectively	endorses	a	robust	
reserve	base	throughout	the	life	of		
the	asset.
The	completion	of	a	major	exploration	
schedule	at	our	Unkurtash	project	
in	Kyrgyzstan	contributed	a	further	
JORC	compliant	resource	of	
1.84 million	ounces	to	our	portfolio,	
while	an	additional	one million	
ounces	of	resource	is	anticipated		
from	a	third	prospect	within	the	
project	licence.	
I	should	emphasise	that	the	results	
at	Unkurtash	indicate	a	potentially	
world	class	gold	deposit	and	one	of	
management's	key	tasks	in	2012	will	
be	to	extend	our	exploration	activity	
in	order	to	maximise	the	project's		
full	possibilities.
At	Lyubov,	our	emerging	development	
project	in	the	Zabaikalsky	region,	
exploration	data	has	been	submitted	
for	approval	to	the	Russian	regulatory	
authorities	and	a	JORC	compliant	
resource	audit	is	scheduled	for	
H2 2012.	
Positive	exploration	drilling	results	
were	also	received	from	Blagodatnoye,	
in	the	Khabarovsk	region,	while	our	
study	of	the	Taseevskoye	project,	in	
the	Zabaikalsky	region,	will	continue	
in	2012	as	we	seek	to	obtain	fully	
representative	samples	and	confirm	
ore	block	characteristics.	
The	net	effect	of	the	respective	audits	
at	MNV	and	Unkurtash,	together	
with	the	Novo	transaction,	ultimately	
translated	into	a	JORC	compliant	41%	
increase	in	your	Company's	resources	
accompanied	by	a	54%	increase	in	
reserves	during	the	year.
In	2011	the	Company	produced	
184,102	ounces	of	gold	and	gold	
equivalents.	This	figure	fell	below	our	
revised	forecast	of	190,000-200,000	
ounces,	a	shortfall	that	reflected	first	
quarter	weather	related	production	
delays	at	MNV	combined	with	lower	
than	targeted	ore	grades	in	Q4.	Our	
forecast	production	range	for	2012	is	
200,000-215,000	ounces.
The	Company	continues	to	pursue	
its	M&A	programme	following	
the	successful	acquisition	of	the	
majority	interest	in	Novo.	Several	
opportunities	are	currently	being	
assessed	and	are	at	various	stages	of	
evaluation	and	in	some	cases	financial	
information	has	been	received	
allowing	the	Company	to	form	an	
initial	view	on	possible	value.	In	no	
case	is	the	Company	in	exclusive	
discussions	and	any	potential	
transaction	will	require	detailed	due	
diligence	before	agreement	can	be	
reached.
I	am	delighted	to	report	that	the	
revenues	of	your	Company	rose	by	
23.2%	to	more	than	US$300 million:	
an	achievement	that	reflected	the	
strength	of	the	gold	price	and,	in	
turn,	higher	realisations	on	sales.	
A	 no	hedge'	policy	enabled	us	to	
take	full	advantage	of	favourable	
market	conditions.	In	line	with	this,	
EBITDA	advanced	by	almost	30%	to	
US$157.1 million	in	2011	as	against	
US$121.3 million	in	2010.	As	a	result,	
our	EBITDA	margin,	defined	as	
EBITDA	divided	by	total	revenue,	
registered	a	year-on-year	advance	
from	49.8%	to	52.3%.
Various	factors,	including	a	second	
half	decrease	in	the	average	gold	grade	
delivered	for	processing	at	MNV	
and	Novo	and	inflationary	pressures	
in	relation	to	the	costs	of	materials,	
labour	and	services,	raised	total	
Group	cash	costs	to	US$594	per oz	
in	2011	against	a	comparable	US$513	
per oz	in	2010.	Shareholders	should	
note,	however,	that	at	a	figure	of	under	
US$600	per oz,	our	cash	costs	remain	
highly	competitive	in	the	context	of	
peer	group	comparison.	
The	Company's	balance	sheet	is	
ungeared	and,	notwithstanding	an	
initial	consideration	of	US$110 million	
in	respect	of	the	Novo	transaction,	
a	US$65.6	Capex	spend	and	the	
US$25.7 million	funding	of	our	
interim	dividend,	all	of	which	were	
met	through	existing	cash	balances	
and	net	cash	flow,	showed	cash	
and	short	term	investments	and	
deposits	of	US$126.7 million	as	at	
31	December	2011.	Our	strong	cash	
position,	allied	to	efficient	production	
disciplines,	leaves	us	well	placed	to	
progress	our	development	projects	
towards	production,	extend	our	
exploration	targets	and	continue	to	
review	our	M&A	options.	
Whilst	an	interim	dividend	was	paid	
in	October	2011,	the	Board	has	taken	
into	account	the	Company's	project	 8
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 HIGHLAND GOLD MINING LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
pipeline	capital	expenditure	for	2012	
and	the	purchase	of	a	further	48.3%	
interest	in	Novo	at	the	end	of	2011	
and	therefore	does	not	recommend	
the	payment	of	a	final	dividend.
The	health	and	safety	of	our	
employees	is	of	paramount	
importance	and	your	Company	
remains	totally	committed	to	the	
provision	of	appropriate	training	and	
the	promotion	of	constant	vigilance	in	
this	regard.	We	are	equally	committed	
to	fulfilling	our	responsibilities	in	
relation	to	the	environment	and	
the	communities	within	which	
we	work	and,	to	this	end,	we	are	
currently	developing	our	ISO	14001	
environmental	management	system	
with	compliance	auditing	expected	by	
the	end	of	2012.
We	are	conscious	that,	despite	our	
aforementioned	approach	to	health	
and	safety,	aspects	of	risk	are	inherent	
in	the	mining	industry	and,	as	
reported	previously,	I	deeply	regret	
that	one	Company	employee	fatality	
occurred	during	the	year.	
The	full	year	lost	time	injury	
frequency	rate	rose	from	0.37	in	2010	
to	0.57	in	2011	(per	200,000	man-
hours	worked).	
As	previously	announced,	Barrick	
Gold	Corporation	advised	us	in	
February	2012	of	its	plans	to	divest	its	
approximate	20.4%	shareholding	in	
Highland	which	is	perceived	as	non-
core	to	its	ongoing	business	strategy.	
We	place	considerable	value	on	the	
goodwill	that	exists	between	ourselves	
and	Barrick,	the	world's	largest	gold	
mining	enterprise,	and	I	would	
like	to	thank	all	of	Barrick's	former	
representatives	for	their	respective	
support	and	input	throughout	our	
association.	
Prior	to	this	development	Jacques	
McMullen,	a	Barrick	nominated	
Director	and	a	member	of	the	Health	
and	Safety	Committee,	resigned	
from	the	Board	on	14	December	
2011	following	his	decision	to	leave	
Barrick	in	order	to	pursue	other	
interests.	Similarly,	Jim	Mavor,	a	
Barrick	nominated	Director	and	a	
member	of	the	Audit	Committee,	also	
left	Barrick	to	pursue	other	interests	
and,	accordingly,	stepped	down	from	
Highland's	Board	on		
27	January	2012.	
I	take	pleasure	in	welcoming	Numis	
Securities	following	their	appointment	
as	nominated	adviser	and	broker	to	
the	Company	on	7	November	2011.	
I	would	also	like	to	take	this	
opportunity,	on	behalf	of	myself	and	
my	Boardroom	colleagues,	to	thank	
all	of	our	management	and	employees	
for	their	dedication,	hard	work	and	
invaluable	contributions	to	the	
ongoing	growth	of	your	Company.
Duncan Baxter 
Chairman
M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS M IN E LO C AT I O NS 