 3
Registered number 05193579
2013 will be noted as a year of significant 
change for our Group.  Since the last 
update in September 2013, the strategic 
focus has continued to be:
   Establishing the new management 
structure
  Investing in our core technology 
   Improving the visibility of the long term 
funding of the Group
   Strengthening resources to position the 
Group for growth
We have made significant progress in all 
these areas.
As part of the above strategic priorities for  
2013, the principal highlights were:
   Group restructured into core geographical 
sales and service  operations with 
separate central technology development 
team and defined resource to explore and 
develop new markets and opportunities 
for our existing  technologies
   Finalising the vendor loan note 
outstanding from the sale of the 
Promotional Marketing Division to an 
MBO team in 2011.  Post the year end, a 
deal has been agreed that will result in the 
redemption on the loan note with the 
Group receiving a final  2m from the 
MBO team expected by the end of June 
2014 with a  400,000 reduction taken to 
secure this
  Net cash at 31 December 2013 of   0.5m
    Adjusted loss before tax from continuing 
operations of  0.84m before non-
recurring items, amortisation and share 
based payment charges
Our new management structure was 
established in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 
we are beginning to see the benefits of the 
revisions to the roles and responsibilities.  
Each business manager has clear targets with 
performance monitored by key indicators 
and close budget control.  The key members 
of the management team are driven by 
performance measures and, following the 
EMI option awards last year, are incentivised 
to substantially increase shareholder value.  
The results for the year include a non-
recurring charge of  0.1m arising from the 
changes made to this scheme
The strategy of providing a low cost 
enterprise level technology  for the small 
business on a Software as a Service (SaaS )  
model continues to gain traction in the key 
verticals for which the technology was 
initially developed.  We have particular 
functionality benefits in comparison with 
legacy providers in niches that involve 
elements of product personalisation in the 
marketing services sector such as 
promotional, print and signage products.  We 
continue to invest in our core technology to 
ensure we meet our existing and potential 
customers' evolving technology 
requirements.  In this respect we invested 
over  1m in the year to enhance the delivery 
of optimal customer experience and will 
invest further in 2014 to ensure that we 
remain at the forefront of technology trends.  
We have identified a number of features and 
processes within new product offering that 
we have invested in patent protection, 
currently in the  pending' stage. 
We have funded our geographical and 
technology investment in 2012 and 2013 
from the cash generative UK exhibitions and 
publishing businesses and from capital 
re-payments of the loan from the MBO team 
following the sale of the promotional 
merchandising business in 2011.  The terms 
of this loan call for repayment by June 2016 
with no fixed repayment terms.  Whilst we 
continue to have good visibility of the cash 
flows of the MBO team's business, a key 
focus of our strategy therefore, has been to 
remove any risk from this position.  I am 
happy to report that the MBO team has 
successfully re-financed their business and 
we expect to receive  2m of the  2.4m in 
Chairman's
       Statement 4
the first half of 2014.  We have agreed a 
 400,000 reduction to achieve this which 
was required as both an early payment 
incentive and to assist with the legal and 
professional fees of the MBO team to 
restructure their funding.  We have included 
in the agreement a provision for the Group 
to receive a further  200,000 if the MBO 
team exits the business in the near future.  To 
this end we have taken an impairment of the 
asset in the results for 2013 as a non-
recurring item.  I am delighted we have 
completed this transaction which helps 
ensure we achieve our objectives and 
provides excellent visibility of funding for the 
period in which we continue this investment 
phase.
In order to prevent management time being 
diverted by litigation, we also resolved the 
dispute with a competitor in the USA 
resulting in a non-recurring charge of 
 268,000 in the year, mainly arising from 
legal costs.
 Strategic update and performance review
 The Group remains confident that the most 
promising growth opportunities primarily lie 
in providing enterprise level technology  for 
small businesses on a SaaS model in North 
America, where there are over 25,000 
promotional product distributors of which 
96% have sales of less than $2.5 million, 
Canada and the UK markets where the SME 
opportunities are considered to be the 
greatest.  To be best placed to meet these 
opportunities the new structure announced 
in September 2013 separated the business 
into geographic operations focused on sales 
and customer service with centralised 
technology resources and another  incubator' 
team focused on identifying additional 
markets and opportunities for our 
technology.
The Group operating loss before non-
recurring items, amortisation of intangible 
assets and share based payment charges was 
 0.84m (2012:  0.4m) on revenues which 
increased by 3% to  4.2m ( 4.07m).  Our 
continued investment in our software as well 
as the continued development of our US 
operations has given rise to our losses in the 
period.  During the year we have expensed 
 0.65m (2012  0.47m) of software 
development costs in addition to  0.4m 
which has been capitalised in the year. 
Technologo
Technologo performed well in 2013 with 
revenues up 20% and the business is well 
placed for further growth.  Significant 
technological developments were made to 
upgrade the existing software and improve 
the user experience services, primarily 
moving to HTML which has more flexibility 
for customisation and requires no software 
downloads on the part of the user. 
The management team has been 
strengthened with the appointment of a VP 
of Sales aimed at simplifying and shortening 
the sales process which, together with the 
hiring of outbound field and telesales 
resources is providing us with a solid pipeline 
of new prospects.
US
The US operation continued to make steady 
progress managing to double its customer 
base in the year despite some exceptional, 
previously reported unforeseen challenges.  
We have made good progress in the early 
part of 2014 with new contracts with 
multi-user companies, which, along with our 
strengthening sales resource, gives us 
confidence that the foundations for growth 
are now in place.
UK 
The UK division saw growth in sales in all 
three areas of technology, publications and 
exhibitions where we have a strong market 
leadership position.  Investment in additional 
sales and support resource was made during 
the latter part of 2013 to help drive the sales 
growth for all of the technology solutions.  
Our publications enjoyed an excellent year 
with the industry magazine PPD increasing to 
a monthly frequency.  Our market leading 
Spectrum Catalogue which forms a key part 
of our offering to UK Promotional distributors 
is now used as a primary sales tool with our 
website solutions by over 500 distributors in 
the UK and Ireland.
Post the year end, the 2014 National Show 
was another tremendous success and 
revenues were again increased for the 
seventh consecutive year.  This has again 
been followed by a typically high re-booking 
rate for the 2015 exhibition which will be its 
eighth year.
Innovation 
To ensure that the Group maximises 
opportunities from innovation, a new 
incubator function has been created; 
separate from the main business with its own 
defined resources.  This team, led by Martin 
Varley, will work on a small number of both 
product and customer facing projects, 
identifying those that are worthy of greater 
investment early in the process, and when 
proven will be allocated to an existing 
business unit to manage.
Product development and integration
Investments in infrastructure and 
development resource were made 
throughout the year; with technology being 
hosted in Amazon Web Services for 
increased resilience and additional skilled 
software programmers being introduced to 
support the commercial demand for the 
growing product portfolio. 
A key milestone in 2013 for the Group's 
product portfolio was the creation of an 
industry focused HTML5 online design tool, 
ArtworkTool , which allows users to easily 
create and share graphics and print-ready 
artwork using any device with a suitable 
browser. Already in use by our customers 
that benefit from our web store technology, 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 5
Registered number 05193579
we expect to be making it available to the 
general market during by the close of 2014.
Integration with B2B brands assists with 
client adoption of our own solutions, by 
example the ability for users of our VISION 
order management platform to continue to 
use QuickBooks  for their accounting 
resource while benefitting from the 
enhanced customer relationship 
management included as standard with 
VISION.  We anticipate increasing the 
investment this year to enable a wider range 
of B2B technology companies to integrate 
with our various solutions.
People 
There were a number of changes to the 
Board during the year.  I joined the Company 
as Chairman in February 2013 in advance of 
Colin Cooke's retirement in April.  David 
Dannhauser, having been appointed Chief 
Financial Officer in March 2013, left the 
Company in July 2013 and Richard Sowerby 
was appointed to that position at that time.  
My appointment as Executive Chairman in 
September 2013 coincided with Martin 
Varley taking the role of Global Commercial 
Director to concentrate on identifying new 
markets and opportunities for our products 
and services.
I would like to thank our staff for all of their 
hard work and commitment during this 
challenging year. 
The Group's senior management team has 
industry leading expertise in their respective 
fields, and in order to facilitate the delivery 
of our growth strategy, we are investing in 
further resource across a number of the 
functions  whilst not yet complete, the 
benefits are already starting to be seen across 
the business.
Outlook
The Group has demonstrated its ability to 
adapt to significant change in 2013.  These 
changes together with a good cash position 
and the continued investment in our people 
alongside our product and technology 
offering will enable the Group to innovate 
and meet our customers' evolving needs.
The year has started well, with all businesses 
performing ahead of expectations and your 
Board remains confident in the Group's 
growth prospects.
Stephen Yapp
Chairman
5 June 2014