 Chairman's statement and review of operations
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2 Hightex Group plc www.hightexworld.com
Introduction
2010 has been a very successful year for Hightex, with revenues and profit before tax both substantially increased. We have
continued to work on three iconic stadia in Ukraine, Poland and Canada. Additionally we have generated opportunities to
tender for significant sporting and civil construction projects throughout the world.
Innovative new materials, high quality engineering systems management and technical excellence underpin our intention to
grow the business profitably and maintain our position as a global, innovative leader in the design and installation of large area
architectural tensile polymer membrane roofs and fa ades. In 2010, Hightex made important progress with the materials it
uses and their wider commercial use as well as its core service proposition to offer complete roof systems.
Hightex is proud that its work on the fa ade of the Cape Town Stadium and the roof of the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg
was seen by television audiences of hundreds of millions around the world in the summer of 2010, when South Africa hosted
the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
Commentary on 2010 results
I am pleased to report that in the year ended 31 December 2010, Hightex increased turnover significantly to 130.2 million
(2009: 120.0 million), an increase of 51%. I am also delighted to report that gross profit increased from 14.2 million to 
15.7 million in 2010, and that profit before tax, after all charges, reached 12.0 million (2009: 10.8 million), representing an
increase of 150%. 
Revenues were earned from several globally recognised projects including the roof above the Olympic Stadium in Kiev and the
fixed and retractable roof over the National Stadium, Warsaw, Poland (both of which are to be used for the UEFA EURO 2012
Championship, to be hosted by Poland and Ukraine) and the retractable roof and fixed fa ade on the BC Place Stadium,
Vancouver, Canada. The aggregate value of these three contracts to Hightex is approximately 145.3 million.
Additionally, Hightex has started an inspection and maintenance business for membrane roofs and fa ades. Currently, 13
contracts have been signed, mostly from customers new to Hightex, but including some former Hightex projects: these are
expected to add revenues of approximately 10.3 million in a full year. The Directors consider that this new business will further
develop Hightex's reputation for technical and engineering excellence. 
Aggregate operating expenses rose from the rigorously low level in 2009 of 12.7 million to 13.3 million in 2010. Hightex hired
additional engineers, in order to manage three large projects and to develop the Company's competences, and further
salesmen in order to help to drive future growth. 
Shareholders' funds rose to 112.2 million (2009: 110.8 million) as a result of the net profit retained, after tax. Cash balances as
at 31 December 2010 were 14.0 million (2009: 14.6 million).
Solar cooling business
The solar cooling business offers an environmentally friendly way of cooling and heating homes, offices, commercial and other
premises using the renewable power of the sun instead of electrical energy generated from burning fossil fuels. The system,
which is available in kit form, is managed by an innovative multi-function system controller and can be retro-fitted to many
kinds of thermal generation equipment. It has a clear commercial appeal and offers a cost-effective benefit to a wide range of
potential customers. However, over recent years, Hightex has had to devote most of its available working capital to increasing
its membrane business and thus has not invested heavily in SolarNext. 
In the year ended 31 December 2010, SolarNext earned modest revenues of 10.3 million. Management estimate that, based
on its currently available working capital, this business will make a loss before tax in 2011 of approximately 10.3 million and
move into profit in 2012. An engineer has recently been hired and it is intended to recruit a salesman and an installer shortly to
help drive the business forward. 
Images right
Installation of main membrane roof at National Stadium Warsaw, Poland 3 Chairman's statement and review of operations (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
4 Hightex Group plc www.hightexworld.com
The Directors are aware of significant commercial opportunities for SolarNext and are convinced that, with adequate working
capital, SolarNext could realise its potential more swiftly. Accordingly, the Directors have begun active discussions with a
potential investor into SolarNext in order to finance and help to develop this business into the next phase of larger scale
commercialisation. An announcement will be made as soon as appropriate.
Prospects 
Hightex has focused its membrane activities within its traditional range of capability - sports stadia, shopping malls, airports
and other large area structures - in four geographical areas: South America, Europe, the Middle East and South East Asia. 
The chief focus in South America is Brazil, which is to host the 2014 FIFA World Cup, and where Hightex has a full time
presence. Twelve stadia are due to be refurbished or built from scratch, of which Hightex has identified four which are
technically complicated and play to the company's strengths. So far, only one of the twelve contracts (for a polycarbonate
roof) has been awarded: Hightex did not tender for this contract. The Board believes that, when the contracts are in due
course awarded, its technical and engineering reputation for excellence will stand the Company in good stead.
Membrane fa ade at Greenpoint Stadium in Cape Town, South Africa 5 Hightex Group plc www.hightexworld.com
Chairman's statement and review of operations (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Picture:  The Aerial Perspective Photography
Hightex has signed a Memorandum of Understanding for a contract for a stadium roof in the Middle East, worth approximately
18 million, and is hopeful that this will soon convert into a signed contract. In other parts of the Middle East, current political
events have unfortunately led to the disappearance of a very substantial contract, which was in the final stages of negotiation.
In Europe (chiefly France and the UK) and in South East Asia, Hightex continues to work on a number of sizeable forthcoming
tenders for sports stadia. 
Hightex is fully occupied with the introduction of new materials and innovative coatings, chief of which is a Light Emitting
Diode (LED ) device which will enable a passive fa ade to become an active, multi-pixel, gigantic screen for the purpose of
giving information, putting advertising on view and displaying artistic designs. Several potential customers have shown
considerable enthusiasm for this development and full-scale trials are planned for later this year.
Hightex is also moving increasingly to tendering for the entire roof system instead of only the design, fabrication and
installation of the membrane element. This will allow Hightex to capture larger contracts as a systems provider and give it
more operational control over its contracts.
The delay in the award of contracts has inevitably led to a reduction in the revenues that can be achieved in 2011. This delay
does not signify permanent loss, but rather postponement of revenues into 2012 and beyond. The Directors now believe that
revenues currently visible in 2011 will be in the region of 124 million, but that this figure is capable of increase if certain
potential contracts are won before the end of the year. At this reduced level of revenues, the Company is still profitable.
Conclusion
In 2010, Hightex made great strides. Revenues increased by 51% from 120.0 million to 130.2 million and pre-tax profit
increased by 150% from 10.8 million to 12.0 million. I warmly thank my colleagues on the Board as well as every member of
staff for their considerable efforts that have contributed to this improved performance. 
The Group is involved in the construction of three iconic stadia that represent existing contracted revenues. In recent months
Hightex has not been immune to the political unrest in some parts of the Middle East and in the last twelve months no
significant profitable contracts have been awarded in the regions we have targeted. We are working hard on winning sizeable
contracts in Brazil, Europe, the Middle East and South East Asia, with some tenders submitted and decisions awaited.
Exciting new materials have been developed which should further enhance Hightex's prospects in keeping it at the forefront of
stadia roof and fa ade design and engineering. The Directors believe that the discussions with a potential investor in the solar
cooling business could come to fruition during the current year, allowing that business to grow significantly.
The Directors believe that the Group has grown its scale of operations successfully and, combined with the nature of its
potential forward order book, looks forward to further progress in 2011 and beyond.
Charles DesForges
Executive Chairman 6