 ALTONA ENERGY PLC 
 
3  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
 
This has been a transformational period for your Company, the major achievement being the 
signing of a joint venture agreement ( JV') with CNOOC New Energy International (Australia) 
Pty Ltd ( CNOOC-NEIA'), a subsidiary of one of China's largest national oil companies.  With a 
major internationally recognised partner with the financial and technical resources to 
materially influence the genesis of the Arckaringa Project ( the Project') into development, the 
Board believes that a step change has occurred, with a resultant substantial de-risking of the 
Company as an investment opportunity.   
 
Notably, the JV agreement has secured funding for the completion of the Bankable Feasibility 
Study ( BFS') for a coal mine and an integrated value-added project, the current base case 
being a 10mb per year Coal to Liquid ( CTL') plant and 560MW co-generation power facility, at 
the Project.  The Board believes that this is one of the world's largest undeveloped energy 
banks, with an estimated 7.8 billion tonne coal deposit in the Arckaringa Basin of South 
Australia, of which 1.287 billion tonnes is a current JORC-compliant resource.  To place this 
into context, per Jacobs Engineering's study, assuming a 50% conversion to CTL fuels and 
50% to synthetic gas ( SNG'), Arckaringa's total coal resources (both JORC and non-JORC) 
would represent 28% and 29% of current North Sea proven reserves of oil and gas, 
respectively.   
 
CNOOC-NEIA is acting as manager and operator of the Project, taking responsibility for 
assessing the full potential of the coal resource, in return for a 51% interest in the exploration 
licences ( ELs').  The JV has agreed the budget for the BFS to the amount of A$40 million (circa 
 24 million).  Importantly, the JV will not only focus on the BFS but will also assess the 
multiple project potential of the Arckaringa coal deposit, including coal development, CTL, 
SNG, power co-generation and other potential clean energy projects.  We envisage that the JV 
will also enable the targeting of CTL exports to China and other Asian markets.  
 
As shareholders will be aware, the scale of the opportunities available to the JV is immense.  It 
is really only now, with a partner of the stature of CNOOC-NEIA, that there is a belief 
beginning to materialise in the market that the development strategy is achievable.  This view 
was endorsed earlier in the year by some key institutions who participated in what was a 
heavily over-subscribed placing. 
 
Most recently, the JV Committee approved the annual budget and work programme of the BFS 
which will enable CNOOC-NEIA to lead the Project forward.  The first stage starting in the 
fourth quarter of 2010 and anticipated to last 12 months, has a budget of AU$12 million, after 
which the second stage, which has a AU$28 million budget, will commence.  Importantly, the 
finalisation of the budget and work programme means we are now moving from a conceptual 
and planning phase into the exciting detailed evaluation and execution phase.  Further details 
of the programme are provided in the Operations Review.  ALTONA ENERGY PLC 
 
4  
 
On a political level, the Company was pleased to announce in June 2010 the formal approval of 
the JV by Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board ( FIRB').  Indeed, the importance of the 
project was emphasised in June 2010 with the ceremonial signing of the JV at Parliament 
House in Canberra, Australia, in the presence of Mr. Xi Jinping, the visiting Vice President of 
the People's Republic of China, Australia's Prime Minister at that time, Mr. Kevin Rudd, and 
South Australia's Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr. Tom Koutsantonis.  We see the 
relationship with government in Australia as key to our success and regularly meet with key 
officials and institutions as part of our regular process to keep all stakeholders informed and 
up-to-date with our progress. 
 
The original strategy and rationale behind the Arckaringa Project remains; the quality of our 
coal is suitable for conversion to Syngas, using existing tried and tested commercial 
technologies.  The products from Arckaringa will be highly marketable given growing worldwide 
energy demand - in particular they would help to fill the projected energy shortfall faced by 
South Australia, which already has to import all its diesel fuel needs and is forecast to require 
an additional 1,000MW of base load power over the next 10 years.   
 
CTL is an established recognised process that can be applied to our type of coal, which has 
high moisture content.  South African petrochemicals giant Sasol Ltd has been using the 
technology commercially for decades in South Africa, a country where currently approximately 
30% of gasoline and diesel fuel needs are met through CTL plants.  Indeed Sasol recently 
announced the success of the world's first passenger aircraft test flight powered with only 
synthetic jet fuel produced from the CTL process.  In this vein, Rentech Inc. announced a 
Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU') with thirteen air carriers in December 2009 to supply 
aviation fuel; aviation fuel is ideally suited to production from CTL technologies.  Demand for 
such fuels means that aviation fuel production is one of several high margin products being 
evaluated for the Arckaringa Project. 
 
We understand the technical requirements to develop the Project. The task now is to design 
the optimum Project to commercialise first.  A huge amount has been achieved to date and the 
Board believes that the historical expenditure together with the amount invested by Altona in 
development studies is already in excess of A$20 million in today's terms.  We have a fantastic 
team which has been greatly reinforced by CNOOC-NEI's industry knowledge and its extensive 
in-house expertise, so we are in a strong technical position.   
 
Our management team was further strengthened during the period with the appointment of 
Peter Fagiano as Senior Executive in charge of Project Technology.  Peter has worked closely 
with Altona on the pre-feasibility study in his role with Jacobs Engineering UK Limited, and 
while advising Altona in this new role, Peter retains his current role of Director of Operations at 
Jacobs.  We were delighted by the vote of confidence in his decision to join Altona in a part-
time executive role.   ALTONA ENERGY PLC 
 
5  
 
Remaining on the subject of our team, during the period Norman Kennedy, a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, stepped down from the Board.  I would like to take this opportunity 
to again thank him for his contribution to Altona since 2005.   
 
In February 2010, we were pleased to appoint Evolution Securities Ltd as the Company's 
nominated advisor and broker. 
 
During the period, we were pleased for Altona to be accepted as a Foundation Member of the 
Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute, and the furthering of our long-term relationships 
with the South Australian Government, particularly the Department of Primary Industries and 
Resources of South Australia.  
 
Financial Review 
I believe we are seeing an emerging understanding and recognition by the investment 
community of the exciting significant potential of the Company and the Arckaringa Project.  
This is highlighted by Invesco, one of the UK's leading financial institutions, acquiring during 
the period an interest in approximately 18% of the Company.  In March 2010 we placed 
33,333,334 new Ordinary Shares with existing and new institutional investors at 9 pence each 
to raise gross proceeds of  3.0 million.  These funds are expected to be sufficient to take the 
Company through to the completion of Stage 1 of the BFS in Q4 2011.  
 
The financial loss of the Group for the 12 months ended 30 June 2010 of  2,442,000 (2009: 
 1,120,000) was in line with expectations and includes a share based payments expense of 
 1,099,000 (2009:  292,000), as well as the benefit during the period of a  156,000 tax 
credit (2009:  152,000) in respect of research and development costs available to the Group.   
 
Outlook 
With the foundations now in place with CNOOC-NEIA as our JV partner, we have entered a new 
and important phase of development for the Company, with the commencement of the BFS.  
The first phase will cover key value enhancing activities including mine design and planning, 
groundwater engineering and environmental studies, all of which will underpin the follow-up 
engineering of the coal conversion plant, whilst significantly de-risking our business further.  
With the work programme now commencing, we aim to regularly provide investors with a clear 
idea of the value triggers in the project and its huge potential. 
 
We have come a very long way forward during a time of great volatility in financial markets 
and the worst economic down-turn since the 1930s.  Since completing the pre-feasibility study 
we have advanced the Project through the political process, further detailed technical studies 
and planning phases, whilst identifying and securing a world class major partner, providing a 
development and funding framework for the Project and its spin-offs.  Our path as a small 
company with a massive project has been challenging, and I believe we are gaining recognition 
on the exciting development potential of Arckaringa.  We will have to face challenges going 
forward, but I believe we have in-conjunction with CNOOC-NEIA, the team and resources to  ALTONA ENERGY PLC 
 
6  
overcome these and to deliver the long term objectives.  With this in mind I would like to 
thank all those involved in the Company for their help as well as our new and existing 
shareholders for their support, and I look forward to updating you all on our progress 
throughout the year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher Lambert 
Chairman 
 
28 October 2010 