 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 4
OVERVIEW
The identification of the regulatory issues in our  
UK business in October 2011 has made this the  
most challenging year in HomeServe's history.  
We took immediate action to address these issues 
and have implemented a thorough and extensive 
change programme in our UK business. While this 
is taking longer and costing more to implement 
than originally planned, we are pleased with the 
progress we have made.
Our International businesses have continued to 
make strong progress throughout the past  
12 months with 12 new affinity partnerships 
agreed, customer numbers growing by 14% to 
2.2m and adjusted operating profit
1
 from our 
established businesses in the USA, France and 
Spain increasing to  28.5m (2011:  16.0m).
HomeServe's policies continue to free customers 
from the worry and inconvenience of home 
emergencies and repairs with over 1.6m 
emergency repairs carried out over the past 
12 months. These jobs were carried out using 
a network of over 4,000 directly employed, 
franchised and sub-contract engineers and  
with a continued investment in our service  
delivery capabilities.
JM Barry Gibson 
Chairman, HomeServe plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
HomeServe's products continue  
to meet clear customer needs 
and our business model continues 
to offer long-term value.
1 
Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation and exceptional expenditure, see Financial review and note 5.
2
 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition 
of control, see Financial review.
3
 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control, see Financial 
review and note 13. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5
Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements
RESULTS
In the year, revenue was up 14% to  534.7m (2011: 
 467.1m) and adjusted profit before tax
2
 was up 8% 
to  126.0m (2011:  117.1m). The growth principally 
reflects continued development in our International 
businesses and the benefit of acquiring full control 
of Dom o in France in December 2011 (originally a 
joint venture), partially offset by a reduction in UK 
operating profit
1
 as a result of the suspension of 
sales and marketing activity. Adjusted earnings 
per share
3
 increased by 8% to 28.0p (2011: 25.9p).
The business continues to have a strong balance 
sheet and generates high levels of free cash 
flow. Net debt at 31 March 2012 was  66.0m 
(2011:  11.8m) and reflects the acquisition of the 
remaining 51% shareholding in Dom o for  82m. 
On a statutory basis, revenue increased by  
14% to  534.7m, profit before tax increased by  
32% to  138.0m and earnings per share 
increased by 48% to 35.4p. The Group's statutory 
result includes a gain of  55m due to the re-
measurement to fair value of our original  
49% shareholding in Dom o at the time of the 
acquisition of the remaining 51% as well as  
 24m of one-off costs relating to addressing  
our UK issues.
UK
During the year, our UK business identified a 
number of potential failings in its sales and 
marketing, complaints handling and associated 
governance and controls. The UK business is 
making progress in implementing the necessary 
steps to restore its customer focus and ensure 
its customers are receiving the high standards 
of service that we expect to deliver. This includes 
strengthening the UK management team as well 
as the UK Board. 
The UK management team has a constructive 
relationship with the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA), with regard to the business improvement 
initiatives being undertaken.
The FSA has informed us that they intend to 
investigate certain historic issues. The FSA's 
investigation will take a number of months  
to complete.
We re-started our UK sales and marketing activity 
on a phased basis, following its temporary 
suspension in October, as our retraining and 
process enhancements were completed and 
tested. As mentioned above, it has taken longer 
than we originally anticipated to re-start activity, 
but we remain confident that the actions we are 
implementing are in the long-term interest of  
all stakeholders.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6
OVERVIEW
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
We have achieved strong growth in our 
International businesses during the year.
HomeServe USA has continued to sign up new 
affinity partners, including EPCOR Utilities Inc. 
(EPCOR), our first Canadian water utility and Florida 
Public Utilities, a gas and electric utility. We now 
have over 1 million customers in the USA. 
In France, we were very pleased to be able to take 
full control of Dom o in December 2011 with the 
purchase of the remaining 51% shareholding from 
Veolia, as well as agreeing a long-term marketing 
agreement with them. Owning 100% of Dom o  
will enable us to develop the product range  
further and to sign new utility and appliance  
manufacturer affinity partners in France in 
the future. The transition to full ownership by 
HomeServe has gone well and we are continuing 
to develop our plans for further growth in France.
In Spain, we have achieved strong growth in 
customer and policy numbers; whilst in our 
New Markets segment we are continuing to test 
acquisition marketing in Italy and have signed  
a test agreement with BS Energy in Germany.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.67p per 
share bringing the total dividend for the year to 
11.3p (2011: 10.3p), an increase of 10%, reflecting  
its confidence in the long-term prospects of  
the business.
MANAGEMENT AND BOARD CHANGES
In July 2011, we announced that Jonathan King 
would return to the UK as Chief Executive Officer of 
our UK business, replacing Jon Florsheim. Also in 
July we announced the appointment of Tom Rusin 
as Chief Executive Officer of HomeServe USA.
Following the announcement in October that 
Andrew Sibbald had stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director, we announced the appointment 
of Ben Mingay to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 2011. Ben is a Managing 
Partner of Smith Square Partners, an independent 
corporate finance advisory firm, and has more 
than 20 years' experience as a corporate finance 
adviser. I would like to thank Andrew for his 
support and contribution to HomeServe over the 
past four years and welcome Ben to the Board.
In January 2012, we announced the creation of 
the new Board position of Chief Operating Officer 
and the appointment of Martin Bennett, previously 
Chief Financial Officer, to this new position.  
Martin now has responsibility for the effective and 
efficient delivery of HomeServe's operating model, 
IT systems, best practice and risk management 
across all our geographies working closely with 
the country Chief Executive Officers. Martin's initial 
priority is to support Jonathan King (UK Chief 
Executive Officer) and the UK business on claims 
and network management, underwriting, systems 
and efficiency. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 7
Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements
We have today announced the forthcoming 
appointment of Johnathan Ford as Chief Financial 
Officer. Johnathan is currently the Group Finance 
Director of NWF Group plc, an AIM listed specialist 
agricultural and distribution group. Johnathan is 
expected to join HomeServe on 1 October 2012. 
Until this time David Bower, Group Finance Director, 
will continue as Interim Chief Financial Officer and  
I would like to thank David for stepping into this role 
during this challenging period. 
PEOPLE
It has been a difficult year for HomeServe, and 
particularly our staff in the UK. The actions we 
are implementing to restore our customer focus 
are resulting in significant changes within the UK 
business, including a reduction in the number of 
people. I would like to thank all of the UK team for 
their professionalism during this period of change 
and am confident that the actions we are taking 
will strengthen the quality and consistency of 
our service to customers and result in increased 
employee engagement in the future.
In our International businesses, we continue to 
increase the number of people we employ as we 
grow our customer and policy numbers. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of 
our people for their contribution in what has been 
a challenging year for the Company. 
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
HomeServe's products continue to meet clear 
customer needs and our business model continues 
to deliver long-term value. We are addressing the 
shortfall in standards that we identified in our UK 
business and have already taken a number of 
actions to improve the business.
We are confident that we can create a smaller, 
more customer focused UK business from which 
to grow, whilst achieving strong progress in our 
International markets.
JM Barry Gibson
Chairman
22 May 2012