 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
2
Chairman's Statement
We highlighted on a number of occasions during the
year, the difficult conditions in the UK market. How-
ever, as a result of early action to bring costs in line
with sales expectations we were able to mitigate the
worst effects of the sales downturn in the UK.
Shareholders will be aware that the management
team has also taken steps to broaden and diversify
the Group's revenue streams. We have acquired a
number of overseas businesses to take advantage of
the opportunities in new markets. These businesses
have been fully integrated and are performing very
well. Significantly, both the recently established Hornby
Italia and Hornby France subsidiaries were able to
contribute positively to Group profit in the year.
DIVIDEND
Reflecting the continued progress that the Group
has made, the Board is recommending a final dividend
of 5.4p per ordinary share. This will be paid to
shareholders on the register at 28 July 2006 and will
be paid on 18 August 2006.
Taken together with the interim dividend, this gives a
total dividend for the year of 7.7p, an increase of 10%
over the dividend of 7.0p declared in the previous
financial year. We remain committed to rewarding
our shareholders with a dividend of approximately
50% of earnings per share.
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
Despite the backdrop of a difficult trading environment
in the UK market we are pleased with the performance
of our UK business. Weaker consumer demand, first
reported at our AGM in July 2005, continued through
to Christmas. However our strong network of
independent retailers and in-store concessions
continued to offer a prominent high-street presence.
This, coupled with a strong new product introduction
programme in the period January-March 2006,
resulted in sales in this final quarter of the year
exceeding our earlier expectations, confirming once
again the defensive nature of our hobby-based
products in times of general consumer uncertainty.
One of the most significant developments in recent
years has been the launch in 2004 of the Scalextric
Sport Digital System (SSD). Customer reaction has
been excellent. SSD is now gaining recognition
worldwide as the system of choice for digital slot car
racing, combining easy compatibility with existing
systems and an excellent record of reliability. This
year we have introduced a number of new products
within SSD, aimed at securing wider distribution
around the world, at mass-market price points. We
believe that, over time, the market will move decisively
towards digital control. The patented SSD technology
places Hornby in pole position to take advantage of
this shift in the market.
At the London Toy Fair in January 2006 we launched
the Hornby Digital Control System for model railways.
This system uses similar technology to SSD and both
systems will benefit from the economies of scale thus
derived. In this way the Group is also able to leverage
investment in Research and Development.
I am delighted once again to report an encouraging performance for the year.
This has been achieved despite the background of a weaker consumer
environment in the UK, our main market.
Whilst overall sales decreased by 2% to  44.1 million, pre-tax profit at  8.2 million
is 8% above last year's result ( 7.6 million). Both years are reported on the basis
of IFRS. Basic earnings per share rose by 4% to 15.64p.
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 2 3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
The price points of the Hornby system are very
competitive and the system has been designed with
ease of operation in mind. We expect an increasing
proportion of our model railway products to be
sold as digital-enabled over the coming years. We
plan to roll out the launch of the Hornby system,
suitably branded, through our overseas subsidiaries
at the Toy Fairs in 2007.
INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES
The UK market for model railways represents only
c.10% of the total European market. The major
manufacturers in Europe have experienced difficulties
in recent years as a result of their continued focus
on manufacturing in Europe. Hornby embarked upon
a strategy some 3 years ago to acquire a series of
strong European brands that would lend themselves
to relocation of manufacturing to China and the
subsequent revitalisation of their European distribution.
The first of these acquisitions, our Spanish operation
Electrotren, made good progress in expanding the
distribution of the SuperSlot brand in Spain during
the year, supported by the exclusive rights in Spain
during 2005 to use on slot-car racing products the
image and name of Formula 1 World Champion
Fernando Alonso. Consequently overall sales
revenues increased significantly. However, a reduction
in the number of new Electrotren model railway
introductions occurred during the year, as a result 
of longer lead times associated with the latest high
specification designs now being developed.
Consequently Electrotren made a reduced contribution
to Group profit during the year. New model
introductions are now on track and we are looking
forward to a year of significant progress from
Electrotren.
Shareholders will recall that we acquired certain assets
of Lima SpA in December 2004, and subsequently
commenced trading as Hornby Italia.We have made
excellent progress in re-establishing this business.
During the year, we have relocated the operations
to new premises in Brescia, Northern Italy and
commenced production in China of the first ranges.
We have also improved the sales and distribution
network in Europe and this has shown through in
the financial results. This has been very much a year
of transition for Hornby Italia, and therefore the
achievement of an operating profit is particularly
encouraging.
Similarly, the achievement of a positive operating
profit in Hornby France is also encouraging. We
acquired the goodwill and certain assets of our
French distributor MKD in December 2005, and
began trading as Hornby France from 1 January 2006.
The rationale for this acquisition was based on our
ownership of the French brand leader in model
railways - Jouef - acquired as part of the Lima assets.
It was clear that the opportunity to relaunch the
Jouef brand in France via a wholly owned Hornby
company would deliver the best return to our
shareholders. That Hornby France has been able to
make a contribution to profit in its first 3 months of
trading bodes well for the future performance of 
this subsidiary. We expect both Hornby Italia and
Hornby France to produce a significantly improved
performance in the new financial year.
The European subsidiaries in total contributed
operating profits of  453,000 to the Group result.
Results in Scalextric USA were much better than the
previous year. Sales were up by 9% at $5.1 million.
The loss before tax of $141,000 in the previous year
was turned round to a profit before tax of $116,000
as a result of actions taken to reduce overheads and
increase sales efforts. In addition, as previously
reported, margins generated in Hornby Hobbies in
the UK on sales made to Scalextric USA have the
effect of increasing significantly the overall contribution
to Group profit of our US operation.We are looking
for a further improvement in the USA during the
new financial year.
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 3 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
4
Chairman's Statement 
continued
In our International subsidiaries, both in Europe and
the USA, we now have committed management
teams who are capable of driving further sales and
profits growth.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Our product development programme is the engine
room of our business and we have continued to
focus on maintaining a full new product pipeline.
During the year we have increased our resources in
this area, to cope with the additional demands of
our subsidiaries and to design new products specifically
for those markets. We are confident that as these
newly designed products come on stream, there will
be a resurgence of interest in our ranges throughout
Europe, in the same way as our Hornby model railways
business in the UK benefited from the influx of new
products produced in China from 2000 onwards.
OUTLOOK
Three years ago we recognised that although the
Group was performing well, the Hornby model
railway business was effectively trapped in the UK
market as a result of the scale (00) and the exclusive
focus on UK subject matter. It was clear that in
order to ensure a continued pattern of sales and
profits growth we had to expand our activities
outside the UK.
Our acquisitions of Electrotren in Spain, the Lima
assets in Italy and the assets of MKD in France now
provide the Group with the widest brand and
product portfolio in the worldwide model railway
market, together with the distribution infrastructure
to capitalise on these assets. We have proved that
we have the expertise to re-invigorate our hobby
brands in the UK and we have enjoyed a significant
renaissance in the popularity of model railways and
slot car racing. We have worked hard to extend the
appeal of our brands across the age ranges and to
increase sales. We now have a major opportunity to
repeat this success with our overseas businesses,
both in model railways and slot racing. We own a
superb portfolio of brands which have strong
potential for growth.
We expect trading in the UK market to be challenging
again in the new financial year. However, the overseas
subsidiaries are all now extremely well placed to
become the main drivers of growth in the business
during the coming years. The outlook for the Group
is bright and we look forward to the future with
confidence.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
2 June 2006
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 4