 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
2
Chairman's Statement
Sales in all of our International subsidiaries also
improved in the second half of the financial year
with the result that for the full year Group sales
increased by 6% to  46.9 million.  Pre-tax profit
prior to amortisation and foreign exchange
translation adjustments on inter company loans
increased slightly to  8.1million (2006 -  8.0 million)
(see note 1).  Basic earnings per share were 14.64p
(2006 - 15.64p) but basic earnings per share before
the effect of amortisation of intangibles and foreign
exchange translation adjustments on inter company
loans, a non-cash item, increased by 1.4% to 15.58p
(2006 - 15.36p).  
Underlying these results there are also a number of
encouraging trends.  Notably all of our international
subsidiaries, for which a comparative period exists,
showed improved performance and profits.  The
process of transferring to China the production of
the acquired businesses has continued apace, and we
enter the new financial year with a growing portfolio
of high quality products at attractive price points
available for sale in the main European markets.
As part of our strategy to diversify and strengthen
the Group's revenue streams into complementary
product categories we acquired the Humbrol and
Airfix brands and associated assets from the receiver
of Humbrol Limited in November 2006 for a total
consideration of  2.29 million, in addition to
acquiring stock valued at  327,000.  This strategic
move represents a major opportunity for the 
Group.  All assets are now under our direct control
and we have set up manufacturing relationships 
with suppliers in the UK, China and have broadened
our supplier network into India.     
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending an increase in the final
dividend to 5.6p per ordinary share.  This will be paid
to shareholders on the register at 29 June 2007 and
will be paid on 17 August 2007.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 2.5p,
this gives a total dividend for the year of 8.1p, an
increase of 5.2% over the dividend of 7.7p declared
in the previous financial year.  This marks the seventh
consecutive year of dividend growth.  The Board
believes that it is appropriate to continue the
upward progression of dividend payments,
established in recent years, based on the strongly
cash-generative nature of the business and the belief
that much of the capital and acquisition investment
we have made in recent years underpins the long-
term future progression of the business.
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
After the first half of the financial year, in which
sales compared to the previous year fell by 3%, due
primarily to weaker consumer demand in the UK,
our largest market, it was encouraging to see sales
in the second half increase by 13% compared to
I am delighted once again to report an encouraging performance for 
the year.  As we reported at the time of the Interim results, sales in our main
market the UK were lower during the first half of the financial year.  
I am therefore pleased to report that the improvement in sales that we
experienced in the Autumn of 2006, continued through the Christmas period and
into the final quarter of the financial year.  This resulted in sales for 
the full year in our UK subsidiary Hornby Hobbies Limited in line with 
the previous year.   3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
the corresponding period last year.  Strong
consumer demand for our products in the UK
market prior to Christmas, resulted in low retailer
stocks in January, allowing us to maximise sales 
in the final quarter of the financial year.
In particular, sales of the Scalextric Sport Digital
System (SSD) gathered strong momentum in 2006,
both in the UK and overseas.  SSD has further
consolidated its reputation worldwide as the system
of choice for digitally controlled slot-car racing,
combining easy compatibility with existing systems
and an excellent record of reliability.  We continue
to believe that, over time, the market will move
decisively towards digital control. Hornby is well
placed to take advantage of this shift in the market.
Deliveries of the Hornby Digital Control System 
for model railways commenced just before
Christmas and initial deliveries of the flagship Elite 
digital controller arrived on the market in March
2007.  As planned we extended the launch of 
this system via our European subsidiaries at the
Nurnberg Toy Fair in February.  We expect an
increasing proportion of our model railway products
to be sold as digital-enabled over the coming years. 
INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES
The UK market for model railways represents 
only c.10% of the total European market.  The major
manufacturers in Europe continue to experience
difficulties as a result of their continuing focus on
manufacturing in Europe.  Although some of these
manufacturers are now beginning to move some
production into lower cost economies, this process
will be long, arduous and expensive to complete.
Hornby however now has a network of low-
overhead subsidiaries throughout the major
European markets, which have begun to
demonstrate, in the year to 31 March 2007, their
ability to increase sales and profits significantly. 
The European subsidiaries in total contributed
operating profits of  1,115,000 to the Group result
on sales of  9.7 million, compared to  453,000 
in the previous year on sales of  7.0 million.  This
includes  134,000 of operating   losses whilst setting
up our German business which was acquired in
September 2006.  We expect Hornby Deutschland
to make a positive contribution to profits in the 
new financial year.  All other European subsidiaries
posted increased profits in the year.
We acquired the assets of Heico-Modell, for a
nominal consideration, via a newly formed subsidiary
Hornby Deutschland, in September 2006.  Market
reaction to our recently introduced products in
Germany has been good, although we recognise that
there are strong competitor brands in the market. In
this connection, the re-launch of our Arnold N  scale
brand has been favourably received.  It appears that
there are a significant number of Arnold enthusiasts
who were unable to buy, due to lack of product
availability during the difficult times prior to our
acquisition of the Lima assets, which included Arnold. 
In Spain, Electrotren, now renamed Hornby Espa a,
had an excellent year, making a substantially
improved contribution to Group profits.  This was
achieved by a greater proportion of sales being
made in model railways, arising from an increased
programme of product introductions, and greater
volumes being achieved per model introduced.  
This pattern of increased demand was experienced
in the UK after production was moved to China
some years ago.  It appears that the consumer is 
at first uncertain as to whether quality and detail 
can be maintained. However experience then shows
that there is in fact a significant improvement in
these areas, resulting in increases in volume demand.
We expect this trend to continue, and we are
beginning also to observe the same positive 
changes in consumer perception and demand 
in our other European subsidiaries.   HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
4
Chairman's Statement 
continued
In Hornby Italia, sales and profits increased
substantially as production in China gathered
momentum.  After some initial market uncertainty, 
as we have experienced both in the UK and in
Spain, the consumer now recognises the
improvements in quality and detail that have been
achieved and demand has increased accordingly.
However we are still at a relatively early stage in this
process, and we can therefore expect a continuing
trend of increased sales and profits in Hornby Italia. 
Hornby France also achieved significantly higher 
sales and profits.  The strength of the Jouef brand in
France is, if anything, greater than we had anticipated.
Retailers and consumers have been delighted with
our reinvigoration of this iconic French brand and
demand has grown accordingly.
Sales in Scalextric USA, now renamed Hornby
America, were up by 8% at $5.6 million, producing 
a profit before tax of $82,000 (2006 - $116,000)
but upon translation into Sterling, due to a
weakened US$, sales were  2.83 million (2006 -
 2.95 million) and profit before tax of  42,000
(2006 -  67,000).   However the result this year
was adversely affected by the closure costs of the
Scalextric Race World retail store in Tacoma.  This
store was set up on a trial basis two years ago.  
It has incurred losses since the start.  At the outset
we determined to trade for a minimum of two
years in order to allow sales to develop. In the
event sales have not been sufficient to generate
profits, although we have learnt some valuable
lessons in respect of product format and in-store
merchandising, that have already been implemented
in our range development and presentation.  
In 2007 the store incurred a $68,000 trading loss
and closure costs of $42,000.  In the absence of 
the store, Scalextric USA profits before tax would
have been $192,000 (2006 - $180,000).  In addition,
as previously reported, margins generated in
Hornby Hobbies in the UK on sales made to
Scalextric USA have the effect of increasing
significantly the overall contribution to Group 
profit of our US operation. 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Our product development programme continues 
to be the engine room of our business and we have
increased further our resources in this area, to cope
with the additional demands of our subsidiaries and
also the newly acquired Humbrol and Airfix brands.
OUTLOOK
Our strategy of expanding the geographical reach 
of the Group by acquiring model railway businesses
in Europe has proven to be successful and has laid
the foundations for a broadly based model and
hobby group with strong defensive attributes.  Thus,
in a year in which sales in our main UK market were
broadly in line with the previous year, Group sales
increased by 6%.  The acquisition of the Humbrol
and Airfix brands now allows us to take further
advantage of our distribution network and product
development skills. 
We have made a good start to the new financial
year in all subsidiaries and markets.  As we continue
to rebuild sales and distribution of the Humbrol 
and Airfix brands, and growth in sales of our model
railway and slot-racing brands continues, we look
forward to resuming significant and sustainable sales
and profit progression.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
15 June 2007