 Howle Holdings Plc
2
The year to 30 September 2003 has been an extremely
difficult year for the Howle Group. Trading continued its
decline from 2002, with turnover reducing by  1,326,000
(10%) from last year, and the general decline in the
manufacturing and engineering sectors hitting the Group
hard. In particular Richard Lloyd Limited (RLL ) and 
NPE-Innotek Limited (NPE ) experienced substantial
reductions in turnover. 
To combat this reduction in turnover the new Board 
has undertaken a Group wide review of all the operating
companies. This review has resulted in a number of
redundancies across the Group and a major management
reorganisation at RLL and NPE with Chris Fletcher taking
over as Managing Director of RLL and John Gibson taking
on responsibility for operations at NPE.
The objectives of the new Board are to reduce borrowings to
an acceptable level, therefore ensuring the continuing viability
of the Group, reduce working capital to improve cash flow
and focus on core activities with a view to maximising
shareholders' return from the existing asset base.
The Group is now entering a restructuring period, and it
will take some time to achieve the Board's objectives.
Financial Results
Loss before tax was  3,181,000 (2002:  1,231,000). 
This loss is after the write down of goodwill arising from
the acquisition of NPE of  657,000 and exceptional 
items of  935,000, relating to redundancy costs, loss on
disposal of fixed assets and a depreciation charge related
to diesets at Howle Carbides Limited (Carbides ). The
loss per share for the year was 4.5p before amortisation 
of goodwill and exceptional items (2002 earnings 0.9p). 
In view of these results the Directors are unable to
recommend a dividend for the year.
The Group reduced borrowings during the year to
 6,163,000 which is a reduction of  464,000 from 2002.
Cash inflow from normal operating activities was  1,256,000
as improvements in working capital management offset the
poor trading performance of the Group.
The Board commenced a Group wide stock reduction
programme earlier in the year in an attempt to reduce
working capital and improve cash flow. The Board has also
reviewed the basis of stock valuation at Carbides and the
provision for obsolete stock at Carbides and Titman Tip
Tools Limited (Titman ). The impact of these actions has
resulted in Group stocks reducing by  1,479,000 (39%) for
the year. This stock reduction has had an adverse impact
on the Group's profit and loss account but going forward
the Group has a more sensible level of stock holding.
Operating Companies
Howle Carbides Limited marginally increased their 
turnover for the year by 2% on the back of difficult trading
conditions, with increased volumes from customers in the
oil industry more than making up for reduced volumes
from customers in the general manufacturing and
engineering sectors. Included in the results for the year is
an exceptional depreciation charge of  520,000 related to
a revision in the useful economic life of dieset tooling. The
revised economic life now reflects more accurately the life
cycle of products manufactured using diesets, based upon
more accurate usage data.
The system for valuing stocks has been reviewed during
the period and the Company now has stock valuations
which more accurately reflect the processes involved in 
the manufacture of Tungsten Carbide. The Company has
reviewed historical usage data for all its product lines 
and as a result has fully provided for obsolete stock. 
The results for the period have been adversely affected 
by the destocking programme, which was implemented
during the period in line with the Group's policy for
reducing working capital and generating cash to 
reduce borrowings. 
A review of the business was carried out towards the end
of the year, which identified a number of areas in which
savings to operating costs could be made. As a result of the
review a number of redundancies were implemented which
will reduce the Company's operating costs significantly.
The oil industry remains buoyant and Carbides are seeing
increased volumes from customers in this sector.
Titman Tip Tools Limited saw a reduction in turnover 
for the year of 9% as a result of the continuing decline in
furniture manufacturing in the United Kingdom and increased
competition from imports of router cutters from overseas.
Titman has carried out a number of redundancies to align
its operating costs with this reduced sales volume. 
The Company has reviewed historical usage data for 
all its product lines and as a result has fully provided for
obsolete stock. The results for the period have been
adversely affected by the destocking programme, which
was implemented during the period in line with the Group's
policy for reducing working capital and generating cash to
reduce borrowings. 
Looking forward into 2004, the Company will see a further
reduction in turnover due to the loss of a major customer.
The Company has implemented a number of redundancies
to reduce the impact of losing this business. In addition
the Company will seek to penetrate new markets for its
products to counter the reduced turnover. 
Richard Lloyd Limited experienced another substantial
reduction in turnover for the year, with this year's turnover
coming in at 15% lower than 2002. The general decline 
in the manufacturing and engineering sectors has hit the
Company hard, however the Board recognises that the
weakness in the sales and marketing function at the
company was also a contributing factor to the reduced
turnover. The Board commissioned an initial review of the
Chairman's Report business in light of the reduced turnover and, as a result, 
a number of redundancies have been implemented. 
A major management reorganisation has taken place, with
Chris Fletcher taking up the position of Managing Director.
The sales and engineering departments have been merged
to create a new enlarged department which will improve
internal communication and provide an improved service
to the customer.
The results for the period have been adversely affected 
by the destocking programme, which was implemented
during the period, in line with the Group's policy for reducing
working capital and generating cash to reduce borrowings. 
Looking forward into 2004, a further review of the business
will be carried out, the outcome of which could result in
further provisions for reorganisation costs and a write
down of fixed assets. Tungsten Carbide Taps is one
product line which is experiencing growth as customers
realise the benefits of improved tool life and reduced 
down time. The order intake started to recover towards
the end of the year. 
NPE-Innotek Limited saw turnover reduce substantially 
in the year with turnover for the year being 47% lower 
than 2002. The reduced turnover is a result of a significant
drop in sales to the motorsport sector, the decline in
general manufacturing and engineering and a lack of a
sales and marketing presence. The reduction in sales 
to the motorsport sector is a result of the Company's
decision to focus on traditional customers in the canning
sector. During the year the Company was the subject of 
a failed MBO. The MBO proved to be a big distraction to
the management, with resources diverted away from the
management of operations. In particular the sales and
marketing function suffered severely. The turnover for 
2002 did include an element for the Innotek division, 
which ceased operations in November 2002.
The Board commissioned an internal review of the
business in the second half of the year. As a result a
number of redundancies were announced, including the
departure of two senior managers. A major management
reorganisation has taken place, with John Gibson taking
on the responsibility for operations at NPE. The new
management has made significant progress in stabilising
the business and has focused on improving productivity
and concentrating sales and marketing resources on the
traditional canning customers, where the company has
experienced substantial reductions in business over the
last two years.
Looking forward into 2004, with an improved order book
and reduced operating costs, the Company has begun 
to recover from the heavy losses of the past two years.
The Company provides a valuable sub-contract machining
service to Carbides, in particular for work related to the 
oil industry and this will assist the recovery of NPE's
turnover in 2004.
Richard Lloyd Pension
The Board have decided to adopt the provisions of
Financial Reporting Standard ( FRS')17 early. As a result
the deficit on the pension has increased from  46,000
calculated under the MFR assumptions to  220,000 
under FRS17. The Group has fully provided for this 
deficit in the balance sheet at 30 September 2003. 
People
The Group reduced headcount by 18% during the 
year and currently has 222 employees. During the 
year a number of Board changes have taken place. 
On 11 October 2002, David Abell joined the Board as 
a non-executive director. David Abell is chairman of
Jourdan plc, a major shareholder of Howle Holdings plc.
David Abell brought to the Board extensive operational
experience and helped the Board to focus on reducing
working capital and reducing borrowings. Unfortunately
David Abell resigned on 22 August 2003. The Board 
would like to thank him for his efforts in the short time 
he was with us. George Govan and Paul Sandford both
resigned on 31 July 2003. Chris Fletcher and John Gibson
were appointed to the Board as executive directors on 
22 August 2003. Chris Fletcher has been with the Howle
Group for over 15 years and has been the Managing
Director of Carbides for the last 12 years. John Gibson 
has been with the Howle Group since 1997 and has 
been Managing Director of Titman for over 16 years.
Matthew Chaloner was appointed Group Chief Executive
on 28 August 2003. Matthew Chaloner continues with his
Finance responsibilities. I was appointed acting Chairman
on 28 August 2003. The Board will seek to appoint a
permanent Chairman in the next twelve months. 
I would like to thank all our dedicated employees for their
hard work during this very difficult year.
Outlook
The objective of the Board is to reduce borrowings to an
acceptable level. To this end the Board will continue to
seek improvements in working capital management and
review the cost base in line with sales volumes. There is 
no quick solution to the difficulties faced by the Group, it
will take time and, as mentioned earlier in this statement,
the restructuring period could take some time to complete.
On the positive side we have started to see a recovery 
in the order books across the Group, which provides the
Group with a good chance of meeting our realistic 
budgets for 2004.
Professor D G Rhys OBE
Chairman
28 January 2004
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
3