 Job: 11939D-- huntsworth Date: 25-06-03 Area: A1 Operator: MC Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 3519 TCP No. 7 Time: 19:56 Rev: 2 Gal: 0001
1
Huntsworth PLC
Chairman's Statement and Review
Financial Performance
I am pleased to report an operating profit for continuing operations of  1,263,000 in the twelve months to
December 2002, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, compared with an operating profit of
 434,000 in the 12 months to December 2001. After losses from discontinued operations of  239,000,
exceptional items of  1.9m and goodwill amortisation of  109,000, the loss on ordinary activities before interest
was  1.0m (2001   loss  1.4m).
Earnings and cash
The adjusted earnings per share (excluding discontinued operations, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation)
were 1.0 pence, compared to 0.3 pence in the previous 12 months. Basic and diluted earnings per share were a
loss of 1.3 pence (2001   loss of 2.8 pence)
Huntsworth generated revenues, excluding discontinued operations, of  14.5m to December 2002 ( 8.2m  
12 months to December 2001).
Operating company margins of 18.5%, excluding discontinued operations and before central costs, were in line
with management's target for the year. This compares with margins of 12.1% on a like-for-like basis in the year to
December 2001.
Cash generation continues to be a key performance indicator for all managers in the Group. In the year,
Huntsworth generated positive trading cash, excluding exceptional items, of  1.4m. Net interest payable of
 242,000 (before exceptional finance charges) compares with  242,000 in the previous 12 months.
Exceptional items of  1.9m include the costs of closure of two businesses and related property costs of  1.3m;
severance payments of  490,000, and abortive acquisition costs of  143,000. The exceptional finance charge of
 63,000 relates to the successful negotiation of new banking facilities in the U.K. and U.S.A.
Balance Sheet
A committed two-year credit line of  9m and a  2m overdraft were agreed with Lloyds TSB during the year. The
balance sheet at December 2002 shows bank debt at  4.4m compared with  0.8m at December 2001 and
shareholders' funds of  12.4m, compared with  11.2m a year earlier. In November 2002  4.9m (net of costs)
was raised through a share placing and open offer.
Acquisition payments
Acquisition payments made during 2002, net of cash acquired, together with loan notes paid in respect of Harrison
Cowley, amounted to  6.8m.
The main acquisition payments due in 2003 relate to the acquisitions made in November 2002. These are an
intermediate payment in respect of EHPR payable in April 2003, up to a maximum cash amount of  361,000 and a
deferred payment due in May 2003 in respect of Global Consulting Group, up to a maximum cash amount of
US$500,000.
Final earnout payments for PBC, Woodside, Harrison Cowley and EHPR currently estimated to be  2.5m, can be
met either in cash or shares at Huntsworth's option. Job: 11939D-- Date: 24-06-03 Area: A1 Operator: CD Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 3520 TCP No. 7 Time: 11:02 Rev: 8 Gal: 0002
2
Huntsworth PLC
Operational Review
Revenues
Revenues of those companies owned throughout the year held up very well, despite the economic conditions,
declining by less than 1% on a like-for-like basis.
All companies improved their margins in 2002 compared with 2001 (on a like-for-like basis), apart from Woodside
which had a difficult year, although it is now showing initial signs of recovery. PBC, our healthcare advertising and
research business, and Stephanie Churchill, consumer PR, had particularly successful years, showing revenue
growth of 30% and 50% respectively.
Margins
We achieved our target of 18.5% for operating margins in 2002. Our near term target remains 20%, but when this
can be achieved will depend on prevailing economic conditions.
Acquisitions
We made two significant acquisitions in the year: EHPR, a consumer PR agency specialising in personal care and
lifestyle markets, and Global Consulting Group, a financial and corporate public and investor relations business, the
results of which are included for 2 months and 1.5 months respectively.
Clients
New clients to the Group include Aegon, Bayer, Comic Relief, Daniel Galvin, Fortis, JP Morgan, L'Oreal, Lyle and
Scott, National Express, Powderject Pharmaceuticals, Sodexho, Tie Rack, Universal Pictures Videos and
Yamanouchi.
Existing clients who have awarded Group companies new assignments include Camelot/The National Lottery, the
Department of Health, Eroski, Evra, Janssen-Cilag, Kraft, Lafarge, Land Rover, Novartis, Toyota and Yoplait Dairy
Crest.
We are starting to see the fruits of the integration of the businesses acquired in 2001 and 2002, with an increasing
number of companies working together to develop group solutions to clients' needs.
Non PR Businesses
The non-PR businesses inherited by the current management team had another difficult year, and as announced
last September, our two small marketing and sales promotion businesses were closed. The last of these small
businesses inherited as part of the original Huntsworth Group, ARL, has not performed well in 2003 and has been
closed as of the end of May.
Strategy
The Huntsworth strategy is to build an international public relations group with particular emphasis in the
consumer, financial, healthcare, public affairs and technology segments, together with a broadly based offering in
healthcare communications, all of which the Directors believe offer future growth opportunities. In line with this
strategy, public relations now represents nearly 80% of group revenues. The addition of our financial and
corporate public and investor relations business based in New York, is an important strategic step for us, and I am
pleased to say that it has made a promising start in its first few months in the group. Job: 11939D-- Date: 25-06-03 Area: A1 Operator: CD Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 3521 TCP No. 7 Time: 16:08 Rev: 5 Gal: 0003
3
Huntsworth PLC
Global Consulting Group has established its first office in Continental Europe, in Madrid, serving US, Spanish and
other European clients. The office is headed by Jaime de Pinies, and is expected to be profitable in its first year of
operation. We are also very pleased to report that Geraldine Ferraro has joined GCG in New York this month.
Geraldine, a former US Congresswoman and candidate for Vice President of the USA, has been appointed to lead
the Public Affairs practice, and significantly expands our offering of strategic consulting services.
Management and Directors
Our senior management team has been strengthened during the year with the recruitment of Richard Wolff, who
manages our U.S. businesses, and of Alison Clarke, our new business director.
Baroness Cumberlege, who has served as a non-executive director during the last two years, has left the Board to
concentrate on her other business commitments. We are grateful for the contribution she has made, and delighted
that she will continue to advise us as a consultant on healthcare matters.
Management and Motivation
For some time the board has been grappling with the problems common to all businesses where people are the
major asset. That is to say motivation and reward. We are in a situation where the resolution of these problems
now constitutes a major business issue for us.
Huntsworth has been completely reshaped since the present board took over, and we are now building the group
through a series of carefully chosen acquisitions.
A number of the managers who have joined us with these acquired business will be very important to our future,
and we are also delighted to have been able to attract key individuals from other agencies. Overall, the quality of
the people we now have can be seen as the silver lining in a dark period for the Public Relations industry. It is our
strongly held view that, before levels of activity increase, it is essential that our key people are appropriately
motivated to ensure that they stay with us.
As a small company it is not within our means to pay the large salaries or big cash bonuses typical in PR. This
makes it particularly important that we find other solutions which will both reward our staff and align their interests
with those of shareholders. We believe share options are the best alternative we have, and that the way forward will
be to recast the existing option programmes.
We will therefore be seeking authority from our shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to be
held on 22 July 2003, to make certain changes to the rules of the Company's share option schemes. Full details of
the proposed changes are set out in the Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Outlook
We will continue to focus on organic growth, and on managing our existing companies at a time when it is essential
to keep close control over costs and margins. We also continue to explore acquisition opportunities in line with our
strategy, and we believe that in the current economic conditions quality businesses can be acquired at realistic
prices. We also plan to pursue other growth strategies, including start-ups, although these can add to costs in the
short term. Job: 11939D-- Date: 25-06-03 Area: A1 Operator: CD Typesetter ID: DESIGN: ID Number: 3522 TCP No. 7 Time: 16:09 Rev: 5 Gal: 0004
4
Huntsworth PLC
I am delighted with the excellent progress we have made in the last two and a half years. Huntsworth now has an
excellent spread of focussed businesses, with a strong balance sheet and cash flows. We have a coherent group
strategy, excellent controls, a new cadre of talented young managers and an outstanding client list. All this gives us
a strong platform for future growth.
During recent weeks we believe we have been seeing some early signs of a return in client confidence. This may
reflect the beginning of a slight economic upturn or be the direct result of our investment in quality people and
businesses. Whether this increase in the levels of activity will be sustained through the summer is, of course, the
key question. However, as a Group, we have won some larger clients who are planning significant spending in our
second half. Our new business list and prospects are also running at a higher level than previous quarters. Whilst
we treat these encouraging signs with some caution   plans have been delayed so often in recent years   we
believe it is certainly a more supportive commercial environment than we experienced a year ago, which gives us
confidence for our prospects in 2003.
No dividend is declared, but as referred to in our 2001 statement we shall continue to review our dividend policy
as the group develops with the intention of reinstating the dividend as soon as is prudent.
H Jon Foulds
Chairman
24 June 2003