 4   Hyder Consulting PLC Annual Report 2009
Chairman's Statement
Results
Revenue grew to  319.0m (2008:  233.7m), an increase of 37%, 25% 
on a constant currency basis. Net revenue, after deduction of sub-
consultant costs, increased by 37% to  269.9m (2008:  196.9m). 
Adjusted operating profi t grew by 16% to  17 .4m (2008:  15.0m), 
although the economic climate affected the net revenue margin 
at 6.4% (2008: 7.6%).  In the second half of the year,  8.6m was 
incurred in restructuring the Group, resulting in exceptional 
costs for the full year of  9.1m. Operating profi t after exceptional 
items and amortisation amounted to  5.0m (2008:  13.4m).
Profi t before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles rose by 8% to  15.6m (2008:  14.4m).
The effective rate of tax on adjusted profi ts was 13.9% (2008: 
13.6%), due to profi ts earned in zero tax jurisdictions in the 
Middle East and Research and Development tax credits in both 
the UK and Australia.  A tax credit of  0.3m was recognised in 
the year (2008 charge:  1.6m).  
Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share increased by 4.5% to 
34.87p (2008: 33.36p).  Fully diluted earnings per share after 
exceptional items and amortisation was 9.10p (2008: 30.04p).
Funding
At 31 March 2009 net debt reduced to  5.7m (2008:  11.1m) due to 
a much improved cash conversion rate of 88% (2008: 23%). Cash 
balances at the year end amounted to  18.1m and our principal 
banking facilities of  38m are committed until 2012/13 contributing 
to considerable headroom. The Group operates comfortably 
within its banking covenants which we expect to continue.
Dividend
The Directors are pleased to propose a fi nal dividend of 3.15p 
per share (2008: 2.10p) making a full year dividend of 4.5p 
per share (2008: 3p), a rise of 50%.  The full year dividend is 
covered 7.7 times by adjusted fully diluted earnings per share 
(2008: 11.1 times).
Operating Highlights
In the UK our transportation business performed strongly. In 
the rail sector, we were approved for all seven of the Crossrail 
frameworks, and won a major project on the North London 
Line. Hyder is client representative on the M25 widening DBFO 
contract and works closely on projects with Transport for 
London and the UK Highways Agency. The UK's utilities business 
has also performed well and we retain a strong presence in 
the water sector. Severn Trent Water has already appointed 
Hyder on its AMP5 programme, and our water and marine 
engineering teams have been engaged on a number of London 
2012 Olympics projects. In Northern Ireland we completed our 
design for the  120m Project Omega PFI programme. We have 
made important progress too in the energy and environment 
sectors. Though the commercial property market has softened 
considerably, we have reorganised to present a co-ordinated, 
multi-disciplinary approach towards development planning and 
design - meeting the needs of land developers and regional 
development agencies. In Germany, our recent acquisitions, 
Voigt and Seib, have performed well and have now been merged 
with our existing business into a single entity bearing the 
Hyder Consulting brand. The business has a strong profi le in 
airports and public sector infrastructure, and secured two 
major contracts at the new Berlin Brandenburg International 
Airport. In highways, we were awarded the design approval and 
construction supervision role on the A5 autobahn PPP project in 
south west Germany. This third motorway PPP win increases our 
reputation as the leading PPP consultant in the country.
In the Middle East our business performed particularly strongly 
with overall net revenue increasing by 70%. Only 25% of the 
business is related to the Dubai property sector and over 55% 
of our fee income from the region comes from the oil and gas 
based economies of Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Bahrain where our 
longstanding presence has helped us win major projects in 
the highways, infrastructure and water sectors.  Our work on 
Burj Dubai, the world's tallest building, and the surrounding 
infrastructure is progressing well. Although the Dubai market 
slowed in the latter half of the year, which affected cash 
collections, we have adapted by downsizing our operations 
and moving work offshore whilst reinforcing our longstanding 
client relationships. Holford Associates, which we acquired 
in 2008, has integrated well and enables us to offer clients 
a multi-disciplined capability from concept through to 
commissioning. The property sector in the Northern Gulf and 
Abu Dhabi continues to be strong. Our offshore production 
centre in Manila, where we now have 200 staff, is becoming an 
increasingly important competitive asset.
In Australia, Hyder is part of high profi le alliances working 
on the West Gate Freeway Upgrade for the Victoria State 
Government and the Ipswich Motorway Upgrade for the 
Queensland State Government and is competing for fi ve other 
high profi le transport infrastructure schemes. Recent signifi cant 
contracts include:  a role on the Government's  Building the 
Education Revolution' programme, part of its economic stimulus 
package; lead designer on the large Royal North Shore Hospital 
scheme; and Australian interstate water trading reform. Hyder 
was also part of the winning team for the prestigious Te Wero 
Bridge competition in New Zealand.  In China, government 
stimulus packages aim to develop cities and infrastructure to 
I am pleased to report another year 
of growth for the Group with both 
profi ts and cash ahead of last year 
and of market expectations.     Hyder Consulting PLC Annual Report 2009    5   
cater for the growing trend in urbanisation which we expect 
to create signifi cant opportunities. In Hong Kong, a major 
public sector expenditure programme, particularly transport 
infrastructure, is underway.  We have already secured a role 
on the Mass Transit Railway, with further opportunities in 
the pipeline. Our landscape and planning business (ACLA) has 
performed well across Hong Kong, China and Vietnam. Its work 
on the Hong Kong Greening Master Plan won Sustain Magazine's 
International Project of the Year award. During the year, Hyder 
won ten awards which is testimony to the international spread 
of its engineering expertise and reputation.  
Strategy
Our central objective is to enhance shareholder value and our 
fi rst task is to grow and sustain our operating margins. To do 
so, we shall strive to maintain and enhance relationships with 
our clients, concentrating on those sectors and applications 
where we have specialist capabilities and are able to offer a 
differentiated service. We shall combine this market approach 
with close attention to high standards of project management 
and tight control over staff utilisation and overheads. We are 
attaching high priority to the conversion of profi t into cash 
and have introduced new procedures to ensure we utilise best 
practice throughout the Group.
Following a review of operations early in 2009, we restructured 
the business in order to align our services more closely with our 
core markets, to improve our operational effi ciency and to deal 
with changes in market conditions. As a result, we have reduced 
our headcount by about 8% and incurred one-off, exceptional 
costs of  8.6m in the second half of the year. We forecast that 
this will result in annualised cost savings of  19m, including 
overhead savings of approximately  4m per annum. 
We have simplifi ed the management structure, and regional 
operations have been organised on a client-facing, market-
sector basis covering transportation, utilities, property and 
environment. This lean structure aligns our resources and 
capabilities with clients' needs, allowing regions to draw 
upon the resources of the Group to increase their competitive 
capability. This will help us build deeper client relationships and 
respond with greater agility to market opportunities.
People
We currently employ approximately 4,700 people across our 
regions, c. 4,500 on a full time equivalent basis, which is lower 
than at the half year as a consequence of the restructuring. The 
retention and development of staff remains a key priority and 
we are continuing targeted recruitment at graduate level and 
for specifi c project opportunities. We want our people to benefi t 
from the best career opportunities and fi ll vacancies by internal 
promotions wherever possible. We actively encourage staff 
to gain experience in different regions and there was a 15% 
increase in regional staff transfers during the year. 
Board of Directors
There were a number of important changes to the Board 
during the year.  Ivor Catto was appointed Chief Executive in 
December 2008 having been recruited from WS Atkins where 
he had headed its largest division. His experience and the 
steps he has already taken give the Board confi dence that we 
have the leadership necessary to address the Group's priorities. 
Russell Down was promoted to the Board as Finance Director 
in December 2008, an experienced internal appointment to 
complement Mr Catto. Tim Wade, former Chief Executive, and 
Simon Hamilton-Eddy, former Financial Director, retired in 
November and December 2008 respectively, and Keith Reynolds, 
former Executive Director, resigned in February 2009; we wish 
them well.
In addition, as announced on 1 May 2009, Peter Morgan, our 
Senior Independent Director, has indicated his intention to 
retire from the Board, effective from the end of the 2009 
Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2009. I would like to express 
the Board's appreciation for his much valued contribution. 
In anticipation of Mr Morgan's retirement, Jeffrey Hume has 
replaced Mr Morgan as Chairman of the Audit Committee; 
and Paul Withers has replaced Mr Morgan as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Outlook
With over two thirds of net revenue earned overseas, the Group 
is broadly spread across both geographies and market sectors.  
Our order book has increased by 22% to  384.0m, the largest 
growth coming from our international markets. We have already 
secured approximately 60% of our budgeted revenue for the year 
ahead.
The economic climate remains uncertain and the private 
property market has declined. However, we are confi dent 
that we have taken the necessary action to respond to these 
market conditions and are encouraged that governments in 
all regions intend to maintain or expand their expenditure on 
infrastructure which should lead to increased demand in the 
transportation and utilities sectors. Our leaner structure and 
low gearing, together with our geographic and market spread, 
position us strongly to manage the challenges ahead and to 
take advantage of the opportunities which will arise.  
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to express thanks 
to our clients for their co-operation and support and to our 
hardworking staff for enabling us to report these results.
Sir Alan Thomas
Chairman
8 June 2009