 04
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairman's statement
For the third year ICM has modestly improved its profitability
on broadly unchanged turnover. Far from indicating
stagnation, this performance disguises a number of very
important shifts in the shape and nature of the Group's
business and the markets it serves. 
Two of our three operations have had to contend with
considerably heightened competition in markets where
customers demand and receive ever greater value from
products and services. To have rebalanced the business mix
of the Group against this background without suffering 
a profits reverse is a considerable achievement. To have
managed this whilst investing heavily in our rapidly growing
Business Continuity division, without recourse to
shareholders, is proof of the tight financial controls and
impressive operational management across the Group.
This was a very good performance.
Financial results
Group turnover for the year remained virtually unchanged 
at  77.6 million. As in the previous financial year, there was 
a managed reduction in our IT Solutions operations, whilst
the Business Continuity operations again achieved strong
organic growth, up 18%. IT Support revenues grew by 8%,
with the full first year from the ITM Support Services
business (acquired in December 2003), complementing
a modest increase in underlying activity in this division.
Gross profits held up well during the year in all three of our
operations with margins in both IT Solutions and Business
Continuity increasing during the year. Overall, the quality
of our earnings increased again with 85% (2004: 82%) of our
gross profits now being derived from our contract based
activities in IT Support and Business Continuity.
Strong cash generation remains a feature of the Group.
While swings in working capital, presented in more detail
in the financial review, left net cash inflow from operating
activities lower at  9.2 million (2004:  11.5 million), this
comfortably exceeded Group net capital investment of
 5.4m, enabling a reduction in Group borrowings in the
second half of the year.
Operating profits (before amortisation) increased by nearly
10% to  6.1 million. This compares with 5% growth at this
level in the previous financial year. This acceleration was 
due in part to the ITM acquisition and a greater contribution
from our Business Continuity activities partially offset by
lower contribution from the IT Solutions operation. 
Chairman's statement
Graham Meek
Chairman 05
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairman's statement continued
Profit before tax and amortisation increased by 3% to 
 5.2 million, despite a 72% rise in the net interest charge 
as the Group continued its investment programme to roll
out UK-wide Business Continuity facilities. Profit before tax
rose to  4.44 million (2004:  4.38 million).
Dividend
While continuing to pursue the strategy of investment in the
Business Continuity Centres, the Board remains committed
to at least maintaining the real value of dividends paid to
shareholders. Accordingly, the Board is recommending 
a 4% increase in the final dividend to 2.35 pence per share
(2004: 2.25 pence per share). This gives a total dividend for
the year of 3.60 pence per share (2004: 3.45 pence per
share). Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend
will be paid on 24 November 2005 to shareholders on the
Register on 28 October 2005.
Investment programme
Shareholders will be aware of the continuing and rapid
expansion of our Business Continuity centre network. This
programme has continued as planned in 2004-2005.
Our tenth site, near the M4/M5 interchange on the outskirts
of Bristol, was opened in July 2004. Sales have continued 
to build steadily for this centre through the year.
The extension to our inner London Business Continuity centre
in Wapping, East London, was announced in April 2004. 
This new capacity, which doubled the original facility, was
opened on schedule in February 2005. T aken together with
our earlier investments in centres in the Thames Valley and 
in Sevenoaks, Kent, this has greatly extended the market
reach of ICM's Business Continuity services in the South-East
and enables us to provide facilities to customers pursuing 
an inner and outer London business continuity strategy.
We announced a further Business Continuity centre for
Central Scotland based in Hamilton in April 2005 and the
first phase of this facility opened in August 2005. The
remainder of the building will open in phases throughout
this calendar year and interest in the centre has been strong. 
Strategy
Our strategy of building a UK-wide business continuity
presence which we have been pursuing since flotation in
1998 is now starting to mature at a time when there is
heightened awareness of the requirements for business
continuity.
Our credibility in this market and the expanded geographic
reach has brought ICM into contention to supply Business
Continuity services to a new class of larger customer,
typically on a UK-wide basis. We plan to drive the business
forward towards completion of the roll-out.
ICM people
This is my first statement to shareholders since being
appointed Chairman at the end of February 2005. It is an
appropriate occasion therefore, on behalf of the whole
Board, to thank my predecessor, George Hayter, for his
leadership through and since the flotation of the company
in 1998. 
In May we welcomed Martin Clark as a non-executive
director. He has extensive Board level experience, both 
as the finance director of two FTSE-100 companies, and
subsequently in a number of non-executive positions. 
He has become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Achieving the Group's objectives through continuing 
to provide our clients the dependability of service they
properly expect would be impossible without the hard work
and dedication of our staff throughout the UK. The Board
are most appreciative of the efforts of the whole team in
maintaining the high standards that ICM is renowned for.
T o have rebalanced the business 
mix of the Group without
suffering a profits reverse is 
a considerable achievement.  06
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairman's statement continued
Forthcoming Board changes
At the time of the release of the preliminary figures on 
26 September, it was announced that our Chief Executive,
Barry Roberts would be stepping down and would not be
seeking re-election to the board at the AGM on 15 November.
He will be succeeded by Steve Wainwright, currently Finance
& Commercial Director, on that date.
Barry founded the Group in 1986 and has led the Company
through its subsequent growth and development including
the successful listing of the Company's shares on the
London Stock Exchange in 1998. Following the completion
of the hand-over process by the AGM, he has agreed to
remain available to ICM in a consultancy capacity for 
a period. The Board has already started the process of
recruiting a finance director to succeed Steve Wainwright. 
On behalf of all the directors, I would like to express our
gratitude to Barry for all he has done and achieved for 
ICM over the last 19 years. His vision and commitment 
have positioned the Group as one of the UK's leading 
IT services companies.
Outlook
Our IT Solutions business which represented 52% of the
Group's turnover three years ago, accounted for 37% in 
the financial year just ended. However, as higher margin
professional services business has supplanted hardware 
sales the quality of these earnings has risen. Sustaining 
this smaller, but more resilient, operation in a highly
competitive market is a key management focus. 
In IT Support, there are different challenges and
opportunities. Certain basic maintenance and support 
work has become commoditised and highly price
competitive. However, ICM's management had anticipated
this trend. The acquisition of ITM Support Services has
successfully extended ICM's service offering from the
desktop to mid-range enterprise hardware. The Board 
is alive to other acquisition opportunities in this area, 
but these must first meet the target of being earnings
enhancing, as well as being a good strategic fit.
Within Business Continuity the emphasis remains on
organic growth. The Group's national coverage is unrivalled
in the scope and flexibility it offers to both domestic and
international clients. Increased regulation and uncertain
times are prompting more and more businesses to 
re-examine their business continuity plans. While contract
negotiations can be prolonged and complex in this area, 
the prospect list is strong and once signed up clients tend 
to remain contracted to ICM for long periods. 
Our Business Continuity operations have started to mature
and have gained the critical mass required to operate in this
marketplace. The IT Support and IT Solutions marketplaces
are highly competitive. However, we are confident of the
Group's strengths and offerings to compete effectively 
but as ever we recognise the need for vigilance on costs 
and persistence in clinching new business opportunities. 
The year has started with forward revenues booked in 
IT Support and Business Continuity operations of 
 23.4 million for the first half of the current financial year
and a healthy pipeline of business in IT Solutions. Overall,
the Board views the coming year with confidence.
Graham Meek
Chairman
Chairman's statement 07
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairman's statement continued
Overall, the Board 
views the coming 
year with confidence. 