 I am pleased to report on the full year results for Amco
Corporation plc for 2007; a strong operating performance
particularly from the core Structural Steel business and a
major turning point in our strategy with the disposal of
certain non-core businesses announced on 14 April 2008.
The Group is now focussed on our award winning and
industry leading Structural Steel business, Billington
Structures Ltd.  We believe this business is capable of
sustained organic growth, and with the disposal proceeds
we have the flexibility to invest where appropriate to
capitalise on further organic opportunities and to consider
growth by acquisition. In order to support that new focus the
company intends to change its name to Billington Holdings
plc at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.  
Results overview
The 2007 figures for the Group are the first full year to be
presented under International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS, the rules of which require us to reflect the disposal
of the non-core businesses as a substantial post balance
sheet event and to report the results as continuing and
discontinued operations.  
Overall profits before taxation before non-recurring items
were in line with market expectations at  7 .5m.  This result
is down from the outstanding result of  8.8m profit before
taxation achieved in 2006 which included substantial profits
from the Group's property development arm.
Continuing operations generated an operating profit of
 4.8m, an increase of 5.4% over 2006, on a turnover of
 69.8m (2006:  65.4m).  It is pleasing to note that the
majority of this increase has come from improved margins
in the Structural Steel business.  Earnings per share for
continuing activities increased from 28.0p to 28.6p.
Discontinued operations generated an operating profit of
 0.8m after a provision of  1.8m relating to a contract in
Guinea (2006:  4.3m).  Earnings per share for discontinued
operations were 9.7p compared with 24.9p in 2006.
The disposal of non-core assets gave rise to an  8.6m non-
recurring item from a write down of the assets to fair value.
This brings the loss for the year after taxation to  4.2m and
the loss per share to 36.0p (2006: earnings per share 53.0p).
Overall Group operating cash flow was  7 .5m for the year
and the continuing operations finished the year with  6.0m
of cash and no borrowings.
Dividend
I am pleased to announce a recommended final dividend for
2007 of 7.5 pence per share payable on 7 July 2008 to
shareholders on record on 6 June 2008.  This will make the
total dividend paid and proposed in respect of 2007 11.0
pence, which is in line with broker expectations.  This figure
compares with 13.0 pence per share for 2006 on the back of
record profits.  
Pension Schemes
The net deficits on the Group's final salary pension schemes
reduced by  4.6m to  4.0m at 31 December 2007.  The
continuing Group has retained responsibility for the Dosco
scheme and in line with the new requirements of the
Pensions Act has been in discussion with the Trustees in
terms of agreement of a recovery plan.  Provisional
agreement has been reached with the Trustees on the terms
of such a plan and as part of those arrangements it is
intended to make additional contributions of around  0.8m
during 2008.
The Disposal
As we set out in the announcement on 14 April 2008, the
rationale for the transaction has been to enable the Group to
have focus and to develop a strategy around the core
activity of its Structural Steel business.
In arriving at that rationale it was necessary to assess which
of the principal activities carried on by the Group was the
most appropriate to form the basis from which to develop a
future focus and strategy for the Group.
Amalgamated Construction Ltd has suffered substantial
losses from contracting in the past as it looked to move
away from its traditional coal mining background.  Although
it has substantially moved away from those activities that
gave rise to the loss making contracts and has sought to
change the nature of its activities, the profits generated
from the new work have not yet generated an appropriate
contribution to Group profits.  The company also has an
overseas drilling operation based in Guinea, which although
profitable is reliant for the majority of its work on one
customer.  It was concluded that this was not the business
on which to develop a future group strategy.
The property development activities have from time to time
produced substantial contributions to profits.  However the
level of activity is not sufficient to generate a regular flow of
transactions to provide a consistent contribution to profit in
each year.  The property development activities are
principally under the control of one person and in order to
generate an increased level of activity this would require a
substantial increased investment in terms of the size of the
team and also the additional working capital required to fund
development activities.  In the light of all these factors and
the current difficulties in the property market it was
concluded that this also was not the business on which to
develop a future group strategy.
The conclusion regarding the future focus for the Group
coincided with the management team approaching the
Board about the possibility of a management buyout of
these businesses.  An Independent Committee of the Board
was formed to carry out negotiations with Endless LLP and
the management team on behalf of Newco.  This resulted in
the agreement to dispose of the non-core businesses for a
total consideration of  9.4m, with  8m paid on completion
and the balance within twelve months.  The value attributed
to the exiting businesses was arrived at following a process
of negotiation to agree the overall value of the package
based on the profitability of those businesses and taking
into account an allowance towards the pension deficit on
the Amco Group Pension Scheme.  The Scheme is showing
a small surplus on an FRS17 basis, but shows a deficit of
between  5.3m and  8.0m on a buy out basis depending on
the assumptions used.  The value arrived at was less than
the carrying value of the assets attributable to those
businesses resulting in a one off write off in the accounts of
 8.6m.  The Independent Committee of the Board appointed
Grant Thornton to advise on the transaction.  The
independent directors, having consulted with Brewin
Dolphin Investment Banking, the nominated adviser,
consider that the terms of the transaction are fair and
reasonable insofar as the shareholders are concerned.   
Amco Corporation Plc   annual report and accounts 2007
1
C HAIRMAN ' S S T A TEMENT
Amco 2007.qxd:Amco 2006.qxd  13/5/08  14:08  Page 1 Board Changes
The disposal has given rise to some board changes. 
David Jackson and Ian Swire, previously Executive Director
and Finance Director of Amco Corporation, worked with
Endless LLP on the disposal and have resigned to take up
new roles with the new owners.  Ian Swire and David
Jackson have served as directors on the Group Board since
1996 and 1999 respectively and during that time have made
a substantial contribution to the success of the business.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their
contribution and to wish them success with their new
venture.
Steve Fareham, Managing Director of Billington Structures
Ltd and a board member since October 2006, becomes
Managing Director for the Group. 
Peter Hart, Finance Director of Billington Structures Ltd, was
appointed Finance Director for the Group on completion of
the disposal.
Likewise, Mike Fewster, Operations Director of Billington
Structures Ltd, was appointed Operations Director for the
Group.
Prospects for 2008
The new Board are confident about the future prospects of
the Group.  
Structural Steel has a record forward order book in excess of
 40m. The workload is spread geographically across the
length and breadth of the UK mainland with structural
steelwork destined for projects that service a wide variety of
building types and sectors.  Current projects cover a wide
spectrum of activities including education, military
infrastructure, the arts, commercial premises and industrial
buildings.  This coupled with a substantial blue chip
customer base, provides a strong trading pipeline for
Structural Steel through 2008 and beyond.
The recent turmoil in the financial markets has led to a 
degree of general nervousness in the construction sector,
particularly affecting residential and distribution projects.
Neither of these building types feature highly in Billington's
current portfolio and we continue to see strong demand
from the various schools initiatives, power stations and
general town centre regeneration projects.
The easi-edge safety solutions business has already
developed a number of interesting products and should see
a steady growth in their activities and profitability in 2008.  
We can expect a consistent level of demand for rental of
barriers and sales of the new trailarrest and coresafe
products.  
The current buoyant conditions in the world mining industry
mean that Dosco is experiencing a steady demand in its
spares business and has orders and enquiries for new and
refurbished machines going through into 2009.
Management and workforce
I should like to express my thanks to all the directors and
employees for their efforts and assistance in the last twelve
months.  I look forward to working with the continuing team
to achieve future success and wish those departing with the
exiting business every success for the future.
P . K. Hems
Executive Chairman
22 April 2008
Amco Corporation Plc   annual report and accounts 2007
C HAIRMAN ' S S T A TEMENT
2
Amco 2007.qxd:Amco 2006.qxd  13/5/08  14:08  Page 2