 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
SUMMARy
 
  Major renewals and contract wins in the year.
 
  Successful acquisition and integration of 
TSC Music Systems Limited in the year.
 
  Expansion of international business with 
Vancouver sales office opened.
 
  Major advancement in our technology platforms 
to include network based system. 
2007 has been a further year of good progress with growth both 
organically and via an earnings enhancing acquisition.
DEREk MApp chairman
I am pleased to report that 2007 has been a further year of good 
progress at Imagesound. We have continued our track record of 
growth both organically and via an earnings enhancing acquisition. 
This year we made our largest acquisition to date, TSC Music 
Systems Limited, which was successfully integrated within six months 
and has delivered significant benefits and synergies. Our international 
business continues to expand and now represents 21% of overall 
revenue. This is led by our MusicStyling.com offering to the luxury 
resort market, as well as new initiatives across Europe and the 
Middle East where we have extended our core brand by partnership. 
Operating review UK
2007 proved to be a challenging year for many Uk retailers 
and leisure operators, as increasing pressure on consumer spending 
impacted the whole sector. Despite this, Imagesound has continued 
to deliver growth, which demonstrates that our offering is seen 
as a core part of our customers' strategy to attract customers, control 
their own selling environment and differentiate themselves from 
their competitors. We are pleased to report that subscriber numbers 
at 31 December 2007 were 17,800 (December 2006: 13,383), 
as we have continued to win further roll  outs from existing customers, 
contracts from our competitors, as well as acting as a consolidator 
in the market place. Most recently with the acquisition of TSC Music 
Systems Limited in July 2007, we have added names such as Starbucks, 
Caff  Nero, Orange Retail and Alliance & Leicester to our client list.
During 2007 we secured major renewals and additional sites with 
Wickes, Superdrug, BonMarch , HBOS, Foot Locker, phase 8 and 
poundland. We also won new contracts with Au Naturelle for 180 Uk 
stores and Swarovski, the crystal products retailer, for audio services 
to 45 Uk stores. In addition, new contracts were won during the period 
with Richley's for 28 Uk stores, as well as the Slug & Lettuce chain, 
rolling audio services to 92 bars, and Ha Ha Bars, where we have 
rolled out to 27 Uk  wide venues. The majority of our new and 
existing contracts are for three years, which further improves 
visibility via an increased recurring revenue stream.
In December 2007 we announced that we had been invited to 
roll out a video service for the new JJB Sports concept store in 
the Trafford Centre, Manchester, which involved the installation 
of 25 screens. Following the success of this concept store, we have 
been contracted to install our audio visual offering in a further two 
JJB Sports stores, with the potential for full roll out to 80 stores 
across the Uk during 2008. 
2007 has also seen a major advancement in our technology platform 
which enables us to manage the transition from expensive satellite 
delivery of our services to a network based system, delivered via 
the internet. Building on the successful delivery mechanism developed 
for MusicStyling, which is almost entirely web based, this network 
solution offers our clients enhanced functionality and reliability, as well 
as cost savings, which further improves our competitive position. 
During the year we took the decision to accelerate this transition 
and announced our intention to terminate our contract with the Alcas 
satellite system. Thus far we have transitioned a number of key contracts, 
including Superdrug, peacocks, poundland, BonMarch , Footlocker, 
McDonalds and Focus onto a network solution. We anticipate that our 
remaining clients will move across during 2008, which will further 
cement client relationships through our quality and value proposition. 
ACqUISITION OF TSC MUSIC SySTEMS LIMITED
In July 2007 Imagesound announced the acquisition of 
TSC Music Systems Limited, a major supplier of music services to 
the branded fashion retail, coffee chain, fast food and retail financial 
services sectors, for a total consideration of  4.75m. The acquisition 
added an impressive blue chip customer base with leading brands 
such as Orange Retail, Billabong, Mont Blanc, Starbucks, Caff  Nero, 
Alliance & Leicester, Welcome Break and Gala. 
This was Imagesound's largest acquisition to date and represented a 
major step in our strategy to act as a consolidator in the background 
music sector. The acquisition was fully integrated within six months 
and delivered significant synergies, improved efficiencies and economies 
of scale. Since acquisition, Imagesound has continued to grow the 
   
02 Imagesound plc annual report and accounts 2007
_0_IMA_ar07_front.indd   2 11/04/2008   10:07:56 business organically, with continued roll outs across Starbucks, Caff  
Nero, Gala and Alliance & Leicester. 
InternatIonal 
Our international business continues to make excellent progress. This is 
led by MusicStyling.com, the world leading provider of highly bespoke 
localised music content to the international luxury hotel, spa and resort 
industry, which has continued its impressive growth in the year and 
now has an annual recurring revenue run rate of approximately  1m. 
MusicStyling accounts for 1,700 Music 'Zones' in 447 hotels in 
75 countries around the world. The 175 site roll out to the Marriott 
and Rezidor chains announced at the interim results has now been 
completed and the pipeline remains strong for future opportunities in 
this premium space, where we are by far the largest supplier. Additional 
sites have been secured within the Marriott, Hyatt and Starwood chains, 
where we are the partner of choice for any new openings. 
This market leading presence has been strengthened by the opening of 
a new sales office in Vancouver during the year, which serves as a hub 
to the North American market. The sales office is now fully operational 
and well positioned to take advantage of this vast marketplace. In order 
to better service the international client base, Imagesound has 
introduced a 24/7 multilingual helpline facility for all worldwide 
assistance calls, which has received a very positive reception. 
Imagesound is now a truly international company. Building on 
the international success of MusicStyling, the group has been able 
to tap into other markets where the background music sector remains 
less developed than in the Uk. The core Imagesound brand now 
operates internationally via three partnerships, all of which are 
progressing well. 
During the first half we entered into a distribution partnership 
agreement in Spain/portugal, where we now have approximately 
100 sites. Towards the middle of the year we established a distributor 
in Dubai, which serves the Middle East and Asia market and already 
we have secured 70 sites. The rapid development of the economies 
of these markets present exciting opportunities for the group. 
Towards the end of the year we signed heads of terms on a further 
distribution agreement in Budapest, to cover Eastern Europe, which 
is a very undeveloped market and offers significant opportunities. 
We plan to commence an aggressive marketing campaign to add 
critical mass to this business throughout the coming year. 
By establishing these hubs in core markets across the globe, we are 
able to source further client wins, whilst also offering a fully integrated 
service and support network for our existing international clients. 
For example, we have recently continued the roll out to Mont Blanc's 
international store network, based on our success within the Uk 
and our ability to service a truly global customer base. International 
revenues, including those from MusicStyling, represent approximately 
21% of full year revenues (2006: 9% of revenues). 
ManageMent and BO ard Changes
With the continued evolution of the Imagesound business, the board 
took the decision to re define and re focus the scope of the executive 
management team's roles, in order to fully capitalise upon 
the numerous opportunities that continue to present themselves. 
Derek Mapp, executive chairman, is responsible for the strategic 
direction of the company and its acquisition strategy. For clearer 
reporting structures and greater focus, the managing director 
role has been divided so that Michael Clark is managing director 
of Uk and worldwide sales while k en pratt is managing director 
of operations and finance. These changes have had a positive 
impact within the business. 
Outl OOk We have been encouraged by the performance of the group 
throughout 2007, which demonstrates that in spite of signs 
of toughening retail and leisure market conditions, the Imagesound 
offering is considered to play an integral role for our customers in 
controlling their selling environment, differentiating their brand and 
providing the appropriate ambience for their retail and leisure venues. 
The background music market remains ripe for consolidation, both in the 
Uk and internationally and we believe we have both the management 
skills and financial leverage to be able to continue to execute our strategy. 
We have worked hard to improve our financial position during the year.
I am pleased to report that trading in the first nine weeks of 2008 
has been in line with management expectations and this, coupled 
with our increasing base of recurring Uk and international revenues, 
provides us with confidence for the coming year. 
derek Mapp
ChaIrman 7 aprIl 2008
24 Hours a day WORLDWIDE
03 Imagesound plc annual report and accounts 2007
_0_IMA_ar07_front.indd   3 11/04/2008   10:07:57