 Overview
We are pleased to report that ICI made satisfactory progress in
2005. Despite a more challenging trading environment for most of our
businesses, the Group delivered a strong overall financial performance.
The cost of many raw materials continued to rise throughout the year,
driven by strong demand. This in turn led us to seek price increases
from our customers and our efforts were successful. As a result, and
combined with the further benefits of our restructuring programme, we
reported a robust overall performance. Whilst trading margins were
slightly lower at 9.5%, comparable sales growth of 6% helped deliver
earnings growth of 5%. As a result, the full year dividend increased 
by 5% and with another good year for cash generation, Group net
debt reduced further to  745m, down from  989m a year ago.
We also made further progress toward implementing our strategic
aim to become the leader in formulation science with a strong focus
on profitable growth and a clear set of financial targets covering the
four years from 2003 to 2007. These are based around delivering
significant cumulative improvements in sales, trading margin, return
on capital employed, as well as positive cash generation before
divestments or acquisitions. More detail on our performance against
these strategic objectives is set out on pages 7 and 8 and in the
commentaries on each business. Overall, our progress has been
good, with performance against all four targets ahead of plan.
Areas of strategic focus
Asia remains an important area of development for ICI as we look to
build on the strong positions of our growth businesses in the region.
During 2005, comparable sales growth from ICI's International
Businesses in Asia was 11%, with National Starch, Quest and ICI
Paints all delivering good growth. National Starch opened a new
technical and manufacturing centre in China for electronic materials
and we began implementing plans for new paints facilities in China 
and Vietnam. As a result of our strong growth across the region 
in recent years, Asia now represents 24% of Group sales. ICI's
businesses in Latin America also delivered good growth in sales and
profits as the region continued to benefit from economic recovery.
Performance in North America was also good, with sales growth led 
by price increases and modest volume growth in most businesses.
ICI's activities in Europe delivered a robust performance in generally
weak trading conditions.
Our strategy focuses on actively managing our portfolio in different
ways to create shareholder value. Sales, capital expenditure, head
count and profitability all increased in our targeted growth activities. 
At the same time, ICI continued to achieve improvements in cost and
capital effectiveness. As a result of this strategic focus we completed
the sale of Vinamul Polymers in February, and made the modest
acquisition of the Celanese redispersible powder polymers business 
in September.
We have also made good progress towards completing the
restructuring activities launched in 2003. Cumulative savings from
that programme reached  106m out of an increased target of
 140m - increased by  13m because we under-spent to achieve 
our original targets and have redeployed the resources to secure
additional savings. Since the programme's initiation, our headcount 
has reduced by 2,100.
2 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive
ICI made satisfactory
progress in 2005 despite a
more challenging trading
environment for our
businesses. We remain
ahead of our strategic plan
targets and expect to make
further progress in 2006.
Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman (left), John D G McAdam Chief Executive (right)
AR6868_ICI_Report  ifc-8  13/3/06  8:49 pm  Page 2 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive
Improved profitable sales growth is driven by technological innovation,
and ICI has maintained a satisfactory level of investment in R&D, 
the long-term benefit of which is seen in new product launches. 
One of the most exciting has been the launch of Quest's  ImpaQ Taste
Technology' platform, a new range of flavour molecules that should
significantly reduce salt, sugar and fat content without reducing flavour
impact in food products where it is used, for example in ice creams or
snack foods. National Starch also launched an innovative new printable
adhesive developed for the latest faster, more compact electronics
applications. This technology increases product reliability and reduces
assembly costs, creating significant savings for our customers.
Sustainability has also seen significant developments with the end
of ICI's Challenge 2005 programme and the launch of the new
Challenge 2010 targets. More details are available on our website
(www.ici.com/sustainability). Managing sustainable development
remains at the heart of the way we operate, and the Group has
established itself as a leader in its industry, reflected in its membership 
of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for a second successive year
as well as being a member of the FTSE4 Good Index.
People
Lord Trotman
Sadly, in 2005 we mourned the sudden death of our former
Chairman, Lord Trotman, aged 71. Alex Trotman, who joined ICI's
Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1997, became Chairman in
2002 and steered ICI through a critical period. He retired from the
Board at age 70, leaving behind a stronger ICI. He will be greatly
missed by his many former colleagues at ICI.
Tim Scott
Tragically, the Group also lost one of its most talented leaders when
Tim Scott, our Chief Financial Officer, died suddenly in August, aged 43.
Tim had been with ICI, and previously Unilever, for over 20 years and
had been CFO since 2001 when he was also appointed an Executive
Director of the Company. His contribution to strategy and the
management of the business was immense, and he will be greatly
missed by his friends and colleagues alike.
Towards the end of the year, the Group appointed Alan Brown to
succeed Tim in the role of Chief Financial Officer and he joined the
Board in November 2005 as an Executive Director. Alan joined us
from Unilever where he was Chairman of Unilever China and Hong
Kong and previously Senior Vice President of Finance and Information
Technology for Unilever's Food and Beverage division in Europe. We
are delighted that he has joined ICI, and are confident he will make 
an outstanding contribution to ICI in the years ahead.
ICI also appointed a number of new senior managers to the business,
including new leaders for our fragrance business within Quest and for
the Group technology function. Internal development has also been
strong with a further six senior executives appointed by promotion
within the businesses.
The performance in 2005 could not have been delivered without
the continued dedication, hard work and support of ICI's employees
around the world. We have just under 32,000 people employed in over 
50 countries. Ensuring our teams have safe and stimulating working
environments and good career opportunities remains critical as the
Group continues to develop as a leading multinational company.
Outlook
2005 turned out much as planned, although more work had to
be done to manage high raw material inflation and raise prices.
We maintained our strategic progress and improved the financial
performance of the business despite mixed trading conditions.
With good strategic growth platforms developing in Asia and in a
number of important, high growth industries, the long-term prospects
for the Group look favourable. However, more remains to be done
in the short-term to capitalise on the progress we have made to date
and our teams will be focused in 2006 on achieving our strategic plan
targets and completing the 2003 restructuring programme, whilst
developing our plans for 2007 and beyond.
Because of ICI's long history we have significant pension
commitments. Principally as a result of changes in mortality, the
aggregate net deficit of our pension and other post-retirement plans
has increased from  1.2bn to  1.7bn. As a result, we have agreed
with the trustees of the two principal UK pension funds to make
increased contributions from 2006 onwards. More details are set
out in the contractual obligations table in the operating and financial
review on page 23.
Our outlook for 2006 is unchanged. At this early stage in the year
trading conditions look satisfactory, with growth opportunities in Asia,
North America and Latin America likely to offset any generally weak
trading conditions in Western Europe. Against this backdrop, and with
further incremental benefits from restructuring, ICI expects to make
further progress in 2006, towards its strategic plan targets.
ICI's shareholders, employees and customers have provided strong
support to the Group over recent years and we thank them for their
ongoing trust and confidence. We are mindful of our financial
responsibility to all stakeholders and the need always to act with the
highest standards of integrity and transparency. We remain committed
to achieving both as we move forward.
Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman
John D G McAdam Chief Executive
AR6868_ICI_Report  ifc-8  13/3/06  8:49 pm  Page 3