  
2 
 
 
Independent Resources plc 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
Period ended 31 December 2013 
  
Challenging times - getting back in control of our destiny 
 
The 15 month period covered by these accounts from 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2013 has been a real challenge for the 
company. Shareholders will remember that, in my statement in the accounts to 30 September 2012, I said that we were overwhelmed 
by events we could not control. It has taken the period since then to reduce the Italian problems to scale, get a grip on the Tunisian 
issues, strengthen the management of the company and refocus our strategy. As part of this strategic re-positioning we have been 
working on a number of attractive opportunities that would provide the company with increasing exposure over time to hydrocarbon 
production in our area of interest. We look forward to sharing our progress on these potentially transformational initiatives as they 
mature. 
 
New Management team 
 
Greg Coleman joined as CEO in March 2013.  Greg was a very senior executive within the BP Group and after leaving BP he founded 
and was CEO of Canamens Limited. His background and experience is exactly what we need to refocus our strategy away from 
reliance on Italy and into a range of more geographically diverse producing assets. 
 
I am delighted that Greg has assembled an extremely capable team with a wide range of experience. Brian Hepp, as chief operations 
officer brings a wealth of experience of managing field operations, while Owain Franks, a former senior PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Partner has joined us as Commercial Director to work with Greg and the team in transforming the company. 
 
Tim James retired as CFO during the year and we are grateful to him for his stewardship of the company's finances.  Feilim McCole has 
been appointed to replace Tim as Finance Director. Feilim has a strong big firm (Deloitte), interim management and corporate finance 
background. 
 
Ksar Hadada 
 
During 2013 we have devoted considerable time and effort to protecting our interests in Tunisia and trying to achieve some momentum. 
As I said in our last interim results announcement, the previous operator of the license, PetroAsian (Tunisia) Limited owned by the Hoifu 
Energy Group (which is listed in Hong Kong) had conspicuously failed in its obligations as operator putting the renewal of the licence in 
March 2014 at risk.  
 
Following extensive discussions and negotiations, on 19 February 2014, ETAP, the Tunisian State Oil Company applied for an 
exceptional extension of the license for two years to the relevant Ministry, the DGE. The DGE had previously signalled that they wished 
this application to be made, that the company should become the operator and the other two minority parties should remain in the 
license with the company moving to an 86.345% working interest. 
 
We, in common with a number of other companies operating in Tunisia, are waiting on the final steps of the approval process. This will 
take place at a meeting of the Consultative Committee on Hydrocarbons. This meeting has been somewhat delayed and we are 
hopeful, following discussions with the DGE, that a meeting will take place in the near future allowing us, assuming approval is given, to 
progress our plans. 
 
 
 
   
3 
 
 
Independent Resources plc 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Period ended 31 December 2013 
  
Rivara  
 
We continue to be impacted by the ripples from the earthquake in April 2012 which halted progress on the Rivara Gas Storage project.  
In November 2012, we announced the exit of our former joint venture partner ERG S.p.A.  While the commercial arrangements agreed 
with ERG did result in a cash payment to the group, they also triggered a need to reverse part of the deemed gain that accounting 
standards had required us to recognise in our 2008 accounts. The impact - a non-cash loss of  1.51 million is reflected in this set of 
results. 
 
We expect Administrative court proceedings to begin later this year in which we are contesting the position of the Emilia-Romagna 
Region and the consequent position of the Ministry of Economic Development. This will not be a speedy process but is an important 
step forwards. 
 
We also feel vindicated by the recent findings of an international commission that there could not have been any link between our 
activities at Rivara and the tragic earthquake in Emilia Romagna. 
 
Fiume Bruna and Casoni (Ribolla Basin CBM assets) 
 
I have signalled before that we are looking at our strategic options in relation to Italy. After the period covered by these accounts, we 
have entered into discussions with the Ministry of Economic Development on the way forward. We continue to work with local parties, 
partners and authorities to reduce project timelines to allow us to develop this potentially significant resource or to farm out some part of 
it to a third party. 
 
The prospective resources at Fiume Bruna and Casoni do represent a significant source of gas for local industry and the local economy 
and we are keen to maximise shareholder value out of it. We also welcome that the new Italian Federal government appears supportive 
of energy regime change, including a delayering of the approval regime in Italy but we do not expect this to happen in the near term. 
 
Financial review  
 
The results for the year reflect the cost of our significant efforts to deliver a transformational deal.  
 
The group made a loss of  3.34 million during 2013 (2012:  1.82 million) of which  1.51 million related to restructuring of Rivara Gas 
Storage (2012:  Nil),  1.34 million comprised ongoing administrative costs (2012:  1.24 million),  0.27 million comprised professional 
fees and diligence costs related to potential acquisitions (2012:  Nil), and  0.22 million comprised non-cash provisions for the issue of 
share options (2012:  0.15 million). 
 
Consolidated net assets at 31 December 2013 were  10.92 million (2012:  13.34 million).   At this juncture, it has not been deemed 
necessary to impair the carrying value of the group's Italian gas storage project at Rivara or that of our coal bed methane project at 
Fiume Bruna and Casoni.  The board will continue to monitor this situation carefully, particularly in light of forthcoming legal proceedings 
in relation to the Rivara Gas Storage project.   
 
At 31 December 2013, the consolidated balance sheet included approximately  5.58 million of past investment in relation to Rivara.  
While we continue to be confident in relation to our legal position, a material prolongation of or an adverse result from the Court 
processes may result in the need for an impairment. The book value of past investment in relation to Fiume Bruna and Casoni was 
approximately  4.32 million at 31 December 2013.    
4 
 
 
Independent Resources plc 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Period ended 31 December 2013 
 
Cash generated from operations totalled  0.16 million (2012:  0.89 million used) after adjustments for non-cash items with capital 
expenditures incurred during the year limited to  0.22 million (2012:  0.88 million).  
 
There was  0.66 million of available cash at 31 December 2013. 
 
To strengthen the group's financial position further the group recently announced a placing and open offer to raise up to a maximum of 
 2.75 million of additional funds. 
 
Going concern 
 
The group had cash reserves of  0.21 million at 31 May 2014.  
 
On 30 May 2014, the company announced a placing and open offer, which if the open offer is fully subscribed will provide total gross 
proceeds of  2.75 million. 
 
The directors anticipate that the cash available on the basis of a fully subscribed open offer this will be sufficient to cover non-
discretionary expenses for the next twelve months and the preparatory work in Ksar Hadada described in my letter accompanying the 
placing and open offer documentation also available on our website. 
 
In the event that the placing and open offer is not fully subscribed, the group will need additional funding to meet future costs.  
Accordingly the directors intend to continue to explore all forms of potential fundraising at both a corporate and asset level. If the group 
is unable to raise sufficient funds then the group is unlikely to be able to continue as a going concern. 
 
In order to meet all of the group's licence commitments, the group needs to raise further funds and is likely to require additional sources 
of funding, including securing farm out partners for its projects.  
 
Business development  
 
A number of possible transactions are being actively pursues and we expect to report further in due course. 
 
After the end of this reporting period we announced a fundraising by way of placing and open offer and at the time of writing we expect 
it to be completed in mid June 2014. As a result of the placing and open offer the directors are satisfied that the company will be in a 
financial position to meet its short-term obligations but will need further funds to allow it to bring its plans to fruition in full.   
 
We remain acutely cost conscious and value focused. We are keen to be able to make further announcements about the opportunities 
on which Greg and the team are working on and I trust that we will be able to do so shortly. 
 
 
 
 
 
Grayson Nash 
Non-executive Chairman 
 
 
 
 