 Independent Resources plc  Annual Report 2009 1
Highlights
  Net cash at 30 September 2009:  5.3 million (2008:  8.4 million)
  Committed third-party funding at subsidiaries as at 30 September 2009: 
 6.1 million (2008:  5.6 million)
  Rivara - sustained efforts yielding political consensus
  Fiume Bruna - seismic interpretation, appraisal drilling and testing campaign
ongoing
  Ksar Hadada - farm-out: JV secured statutory approval and agreed work
programme
I am pleased to report steady progress and some
significant business successes over the past 12 months.
The value of our main projects is improving as we
approach the significant milestones that will enable the
company to demonstrate what its business is really worth.
We have also added new projects that will ensure the
company continues to grow beyond our short and
medium-term milestones.
In reporting on another 12 months of achievements, 
I remain grateful to our shareholders for the confidence
they have shown in Independent Resources as we
continue to develop our projects in Italy and Tunisia.
During the period, we significantly stepped up our efforts
to secure the remaining permits to allow the company to
commence development of our keystone underground
gas storage (UGS ) facility at Rivara in the Po Valley.
Operations on our coal bed methane (CBM ) prospect
near Grosseto have now provided the insights we needed
to fine-tune the programme and allow the company the
opportunity to flow gas from the underlying seam of coal.
Our carried position in joint venture operations at Ksar
Hadada in Tunisia, having secured its regulatory
approvals, is allowing the company to pursue a significant
work programme over the next six months with minor
cash exposure ahead of anticipated oil flows.
Chairman's statement
Rivara
Earlier in the year we highlighted Ministerial and
regulatory authority statements that left little doubt that -
once all the necessary stakeholder issues have properly
been taken into account - the Rivara UGS facility should
be positioned to become a crucial element in Italy's future
gas planning. These included statements from the gas
regulator AEEG, from the anti-trust authority and from
the national government itself, including the prime
minister's office, the environmental ministry and the
ministry of industry.
Notwithstanding these positive endorsements, the Italian
environmental permitting process continues to be a
source of frustration. All stakeholders would agree that
the drive to decentralise and bring decision-making closer
to the affected territory - a praiseworthy goal in itself -
has in practice created numerous administrative overlaps
and inefficiencies. The process is long and costly and
slows down useful, environmentally-benign, and urgent
infrastructure investments with long lead-times. Nobody
is arguing for the dilution of environmental reviews,
which must remain at the highest standard. What
stakeholders would like however, our company included,
is a fair, efficient, and predictable process that allows all Independent Resources plc  Annual Report 2009 2
parties to submit their point of view to an impartial and
competent authority which then decides on the basis of
the facts and the law.
It is in this context that we understand the Italian
government is seriously considering highlighting the
strategic value of the Rivara UGS facility. The site's
potential in terms of size, capital efficiency, low unit costs
and scalability, coupled with performance characteristics
that directly address the Italian gas system's weaknesses
and a physical location not only at the weakest point on
the system, but also at a point of transnational pipeline
convergence, make Rivara stand out as something that
cannot be left neglected to a seemingly open-ended
permitting process. 
And yet, at times the company continues to receive
conflicting signals as regards the process of permitting
Rivara. To illustrate just one of the paradoxes, the sharp
industrial contraction that the country is experiencing,
though insignificant over the expected life of the project,
has eased the immediate pressure on existing gas delivery
infrastructure and thus reduced the political urgency for a
rapid resolution of the early stage permitting. Yet the
benefit to local employment and industrial activity from
the site's construction would be even more valuable
during the recession, to say nothing of substantial local
fiscal receipts and industrial competitiveness from its
operation. Thanks to the company's efforts over many
months, we believe a number of factors have finally
matured to an extent that will enable all parties interested
in the Rivara permitting process to move forward. 
Fiume Bruna
Once again we can report that we continue to make
steady progress on our other ongoing project in Italy -
the planned coal bed methane development near
Grosseto, named Fiume Bruna - which is 100%-owned
by Independent Resources. During the past year we
managed to work around many obstacles to complete
the acquisition of over 40 km of 2D seismic data, clearing
the way for appraisal drilling and production testing. An
additional 20 km is ongoing. Our wholly-owned
subsidiary Independent Energy Solutions (IES ) began
drilling operations this past summer which were then
suspended pending the review of new findings obtained
from the FB1 well, as we described in our late August
shareholder update. Seismic acquisition and interpretation
continued as planned.
The primary practical consequence of the FB1 findings
was that the seismic lines we are reviewing now are much
more useful and are being used to make future decisions
about drilling operations. The drilling results led us to
modify the litho-stratigraphical assumptions used at the
outset, leading to a re-interpretation of the existing library
of seismic data using new parameters. We are now
waiting for the seismic review to run its course before
resuming drilling operations.
With the seismic campaign ongoing, and to minimise
delays to the appraisal operations, we more recently
decided to focus our attention on testing a well we had
drilled as a stratigraphic test prior to acquiring the
exploration licence. Although a shallower well and
therefore expected to be modestly productive, testing it
was not dependent on any new lithographical
information. We felt it would be intelligent to accelerate
any returns on investment where we could do so quickly.
Well-specific permits are being secured and operations
should resume there first, expected to commence in
December.
Contemporaneously, we are also evaluating the relative
merits, on a risk-adjusted basis, of deviating FB1 towards
the coal it did not intersect at that location, or moving to
another well-site next. We expect to be in the position to
prove the concept and the resource next calendar year, as
we resume drilling at selected sites so as to gain as
representative a view as possible of gas and any water
flow rates from the coal. Following initial drilling and
testing we would plan to mobilise a well-stimulation crew
to optimise the production potential of each well, basing
the techniques on the variety of data we will have
acquired during the drilling and logging campaign. CBM
appraisal is a process that tends to start slowly and then
ramp up as one is able to find the way to demonstrate
commercially-viable gas flows from each and every well
drilled into the resource.
We have reported to shareholders that Fiume Bruna has
an estimated 4.8 billion cubic metres (167 billion cubic
feet) of in-place resource, and results from initial testing,
Chairman's statement Independent Resources plc  Annual Report 2009 3
announced in July 2007, indicated an estimated
recoverable resource of 2.6 billion cubic metres (91.4
billion cubic feet). Longer-term, it also has potential for
carbon sequestration, permanently disposing of carbon
dioxide (CO
2
) from nearby sources. At the same time, an
estimated additional 1.8 billion cubic metres (63.6 billion
cubic feet) of methane would be produced as a result of
this injection of CO
2
. The board estimates that the net
present value of the project would be increased
significantly as a result. Independent Resources intends to
apply for a full development concession when commercial
production rates have been proven, and may seek a
development partner to bring the project on stream
following a declaration and subsequent permitting of
commercial operations.
Ksar Hadada
At our third active project, the Tunisian authorities have
approved the farm-out deal we previously announced on
the Ksar Hadada oil and gas exploration permit covering
5,600 square km onshore Tunisia. This follows last year's
renewal of the permit for three years from 20 April 2008.
As we announced, this farm-out will finance all of the
company's work commitments for the duration of this
phase of the permit and allows us to retain exposure to
potentially significant shareholder value upside, whilst
minimising downside risks.
As part of a joint farm-out with Petroceltic Ksar Hadada
Limited, Independent Resources (Ksar Hadada) Limited
(IRKH ) has farmed out a 21.03% interest in the 
permit to PetroAsian Energy (Tunisia) Limited
(PetroAsian), a subsidiary of PetroAsian Energy
Holdings, a Hong Kong Stock Exchange listed company.
IRKH will retain an 18.97% interest in the block. In
return, PetroAsian will pay all costs of drilling and testing
two new exploration wells and acquiring and processing
100 km of new 2D seismic data.
A 2009 joint venture (JV ) work programme has been
agreed and will include the acquisition of 103.5 km of
new 2D seismic data. The JV has since secured the
necessary paperwork from the Tunisian authorities and
contracted an experienced seismic acquisition crew. We
expect the JV to execute the programme before the end
of this year and complete the work in early 2010.
Generic drilling targets on the block have been identified
and it is the JV's intention to drill and test two new wells
by mid next year into the two largest oil-prone prospects
on the block. These are Cambro-Ordovician quartzite
reservoirs sourced by the Silurian Tanezzuft Shale, which
is the main source rock for North Africa. Recent light oil
discoveries with sustained flow-rates from the Cambro-
Ordovician just to the south of the block have now
validated the potential of these Ksar Hadada targets.
Outlook
Our cash and callable funding position remains strong,
and our project portfolio continues to look attractive. 
This means we are well positioned to maintain and
hopefully accelerate our plans.
In what remains a very difficult environment for quoted
companies, we continue to focus on our long-term
objectives and I believe that our efforts will be rewarded
in the future. We remain committed, as we have been 
for many years, to the success of Independent Resources.
I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued
commitment, and look forward to what I believe will turn
out to be a significant 2010 for the company.
Grayson Nash
Executive Chairman
24 November 2009
Chairman's statement