  
IndigoVision Group plc 
 financial statements 
  
 
Chairman's statement 
 
The year to 31 July 2007 was one of substantial growth for IndigoVision, both in product revenues and 
profits which approximately doubled, and in the management, sales and distribution infrastructure 
necessary to support future growth.  Excellent progress was made in all key markets, the product range 
was broadened, and the rapid pace of development of the acceptance of IP video as the technology of 
choice for end users continued. 
 
Results 
Turnover for the year to 31 July 2007 increased by 77% to  13.4m (2006  7.6m), with product revenues 
almost doubling for the third successive year, increasing 92% to  13.3m.  As expected, licensing income 
reduced from  0.6m to  0.1m.  Growth continued to be strong in all markets, with revenues from the 
Americas up 164% to  3.6m, from Europe, Middle East and Africa up 66% to  7.3m and from Asia Pacific 
up 38% to  2.5m.  In Asia Pacific, excluding licensing income, product revenues grew 107% to  2.4m. 
Gross margin improved slightly to 65.6%, a good outcome given the reduction in licensing revenues.  
These gross margins enable IndigoVision to provide the market leading products, sales support and 
infrastructure, research and development, and customer service which our customers rightly expect.  The 
overall contribution from gross margin grew by 86% to  8.8m.  
As indicated previously, the year to 31 July 2007 saw a substantial increase in costs.  A planned 
investment in developing the scale and quality of the sales force resulted in selling and distribution costs 
increasing by 130% to  4.32m; a broadening and strengthening of the management team and support 
infrastructure resulted in administrative costs increasing by 80% to  2.32m; and increased expenditure on 
product development resulted in research and development costs rising 24% to  1.49m.  Overall, 
operating costs grew 86% to  8.13m, on a headcount which including retained agents grew to 99 from 66 
at last year end.  Three regional hubs (Singapore, USA, UK) are now operational to locate stocking, 
service and support closer to our partners.  As a result of these increased resources, IndigoVision is 
better placed to service its global customer base, and to continue to take advantage of the rapid growth 
rates evident in its chosen markets. 
Operating profits grew 81% to  0.65m, and profit before taxation by 108% to  0.67m.  The profit and loss 
account also benefited from a credit of  2.0m in respect of deferred tax, being a partial recognition of the 
substantial tax losses available to IndigoVision for offset against future profits.  The board considered it 
appropriate not to recognise the full amount until a more sustained record of profitability becomes evident.   
During the year there was a net cash outflow from operating activities of  1.1m, reflecting a net increased 
investment of approximately  2.1m in stock, debtors and creditors, concomitant with increased levels of 
trade.  This was offset by some  1.0m of net cash flow from trading profits after adjusting for non-cash 
items. At the year end, despite the increased investment in working capital, IndigoVision had cash of 
 0.2m and our bank overdraft facilities were unused. 
 
The Business 
IndigoVision is a leading originator of complete IP video and alarm management solutions. Its products 
are widely chosen for applications in airports, city centers, ports, mines, road and rail systems, education, 
banking, casinos, prisons, government and the military. IndigoVision's enterprise-class systems improve 
organisations' operational efficiency, enhance public safety and enable timely emergency response. 
IndigoVision has local sales, support and distribution presence across the world, and partners with over 
200 authorised system integrators and installers in 40 countries to provide local system design, 
installation and service to end users. IndigoVision's products have been employed in thousands of 
installations globally, including two Olympic Games, the 2006 Soccer World Cup, 7 major rail networks, 2 
of the world's top 5 banks, 28 airports and 5 casinos.  
 
Registered number SC208809  
3
   
IndigoVision Group plc 
 financial statements 
  
 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
In July 2007 IndigoVision was awarded its largest ever US contract, supplying an integrated 1100 camera 
IP Video solution for two casinos in Tucson, Arizona. IndigoVision also recently won a prestigious 
contract for TransLink in Vancouver, Canada to upgrade the 880 camera CCTV system on SkyTrain, the 
world's largest automated light rapid transit system - reflecting IndigoVision's continued success with 
infrastructure projects in the transport sector.  
Key to the future success of IndigoVision are continual product improvement and development and 
delivering the very best customer service.  IndigoVision's hardware and software are designed and 
developed in-house.  During 2007 we increased our commitment to research and development, and 
launched a completely new range of products based on the higher compression H.264 standard, as well 
as broadening other existing parts of the product range including IP cameras and new entry level 
solutions.  We also invested heavily in customer service staff and systems with a view to meeting and 
exceeding the standards of responsiveness and professionalism expected by our customers and 
partners, on whom our future growth depends. 
The development of IP video technology has opened up a completely new area of CCTV applications.  
These are enterprise wide solutions employing greater than 1000 cameras, 200 monitors, 50 operators, 
100 recorders with one petabyte of storage, which are continuously displaying and recording high-quality 
video across IP networks spanning entire plants, organisations and even countries. IndigoVision is 
fortunate to have a lead in the real world deployment of such systems and is very well placed to take 
advantage of the substantial market growth that is developing for such systems. 
 
Sales and Distribution 
The total number of staff and retained agents employed in customer facing areas, namely sales, 
marketing, sales support, customer service and distribution increased 49% from 37 at last year end to 55 
at 31 July 2007.  This step change in the scale of IndigoVision's market infrastructure was necessary both 
to enable last year's doubling of product revenues and to support the future development of 
IndigoVision's business in markets that are expected to grow rapidly in the foreseeable future. 
 
Management and Staff 
The board has deliberately strengthened the management team during the year, at significant cost, in 
order to give IndigoVision a much broader team capable of overseeing the further development of the 
group's business.  A group sales director, group human resources director, chief marketing officer and 
head of technical support were recruited from outwith IndigoVision, all experienced and highly qualified 
individuals. Internal candidates were appointed to the new post of operations director and to regional 
sales management positions each of whom is well experienced in Indigovision's operations and products.  
The group now has a full service management team committed to the growth  of IndigoVision's business. 
In a year which has seen a doubling of the scale of IndigoVision and a great deal of internal change, the 
management and staff throughout the group have continued to be highly dedicated, committed and 
professional and I would like to thank them on behalf of the group's shareholders and customers. 
    
Current Trading and Outlook 
The year to 31 July 2007 saw an approximate doubling of product revenues for the third successive year, 
and despite a number of larger volume contracts, this was achieved without sacrificing margins.  In order 
to maximise on the opportunity available from rapidly developing markets, the board deliberately chose to 
re-invest the fruits of that growth in increased overheads to support expansion.  The group's management 
is focussed on continuing the growth of IndigoVision's business and in turning the substantial investment 
made in infrastructure into sustainably higher levels of profitability. 
Registered number SC208809  
4
   
IndigoVision Group plc 
 financial statements 
  
 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
The current year has started well.  Both sales and order intake in the last six weeks are well ahead of the 
corresponding period last year and the pipeline of potential new business remains high.  Whilst precise 
rates of growth in rapidly developing markets are inherently difficult to predict, this strong start gives the 
board confidence that the current year will show a good increase in sales.  We are not, at this stage, 
seeing any marked effect on customers from the current turmoil in financial markets, and we are firmly of 
the view that should this ultimately flow through to capital spending, it is likely to affect the rate of market 
growth, rather than growth itself. 
The investment in increased resource undertaken last year, coupled with the positioning and quality of 
IndigoVision products, places the company in an excellent competitive position as its markets continue to 
expand.  We currently expect the overall cost base to grow less rapidly this year than last, although 
growth will still be substantial, both as a result of the full year effect of decisions made last year, and of 
further overhead spending to support increased sales.  We again expect increased investment in working 
capital, particularly in higher debtors (consistent with an expectation of higher sales) and in higher stocks 
of the faster selling finished goods (reflecting both higher expected sales and targeted larger production 
batch sizes aimed at achieving improved manufacturing efficiency).  In addition we expect to increase 
research and development expenditure to ensure that IndigoVision's market leading position is 
maintained. 
IndigoVision is enviably positioned with excellent products and well developed infrastructure in a nascent 
but rapidly growing market.  Goals for the current year are maintaining competitive advantage; bedding in 
last year's rapid increases in management and selling overhead; growing sales and the installed base of 
product; and importantly, delivering sustainably higher levels of operating margins and cash flow from 
trading necessary to finance expected rates of growth.  There is every reason to believe that the current 
year will see good progress towards these goals. 
 
 
 
Hamish Grossart 
Chairman 
12 September 2007 
 
Registered number SC208809  
5
 