  IndigoVision Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2010 
 
 
2 
 
Chairman's statement 
In last year's statement, we commented that expecting an easy year in the twelve months to 31 July 2010 
would be unrealistic.  So it proved to be. Although sales growth continued, albeit at a much lower rate 
than we have been used to, operating profits were down on the previous year.  However, operating 
margins proved to be robust, and cash generation positive, reflecting continued management focus on 
the key financial metrics of IndigoVision's business. 
Operationally, much has been achieved during the period.  Management structures have been improved 
and are bedding in well; the product range has been further developed; substantial additional spend was 
committed to engineering and product development, as planned; and the quality of the sales force was 
improved.  These advances should serve your company well in the current financial year. 
Results 
In the year to 31 July 2010, overall sales grew 6% to a record  28.0m (2009:  26.4m).  Europe Middle 
East and Africa grew 8% to  12.2m (2009:  11.3m), sales to Asia Pacific grew 24% to  4.6m (2009: 
 3.7m), and the Americas fell 4% to  10.8m (2009:  11.2m) despite a strong performance from a small 
base in Latin America.  Royalty and support services revenue grew to  0.4m (2009:  0.2m). 
 
Gross margin for the year was 60%, down from 64% the previous year, reflecting teething problems with 
certain new products, an increase in stock provisioning and a change in the sales mix.  The overall 
contribution from gross margin was marginally down at  16.8m (2009:  16.9m).  
 
Operating costs were up less than 1% at  13.7m (2009:  13.6m).  The one third increase in spend on 
research and product development to  3.0m (2009:  2.3m) was absorbed by a 4% reduction in selling 
and distribution costs to  7.0m  (2009:  7.2m) and a 9% reduction in administrative costs to  3.8m (2009: 
 4.1m).   
 
Operating profits were  3.1m, some 6% lower than the previous year, but operating margins remained 
healthy at just under 11% (2009: 12%).  Group net cash balances at the start of the year were  3.6m.  
During the year these increased to  4.4m and the Group had no borrowings. 
 
Customer focus 
In providing a complete solution IndigoVision gives customers a single point of accountability for 
maximum confidence that their project will roll-out smoothly with optimum performance and stability.  The 
strength of IndigoVision's technology comes from developing the entire solution, from compression 
hardware through embedded storage to enterprise management software, under one roof. This allows 
pioneering propositions such as our guarantee never to drop a frame and a unique architecture with no 
single point of failure. IndigoVision can also provide training, accreditation, purchasing and support, as a 
one stop shop for partners. 
 
Open system for customer choice 
Our management software integrates with market-leading manufacturers of Access Control, License 
Plate/Automatic Numberplate Recognition, Electronic Point of Sale, Perimeter Detection and other 
systems, giving partners flexibility and choice. Users will be able to upgrade to our ONVIF-compliant 
management software on release of Control Center 4.2, giving them an assured migration path to an 
open system and complete freedom to choose any camera manufacturer. 
 
From niche player to camera manufacturer 
Using cutting edge compression technology IndigoVision has built a reputation as a leading player in the 
niche market for  hybrid' video management, connecting analogue cameras into IP management 
systems. It was inevitable that, with the emergence of professional IP cameras, this niche would 
eventually transition to pure IP systems.  In order to maintain our proposition as an end-to-end solution, it 
was imperative we utilised the strength of our compression technology, moving it into the camera. 
   IndigoVision Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2010 
 
 
3 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
The learning curve in camera technology was steep but rewarding, and we are now rapidly becoming a 
mainstream camera manufacturer, the result of a considered and planned strategy. Our PTZ (pan-tilt-
zoom) dome cameras have been very well received, and nothing else in the market matches our HD 
version. Our fixed and dome cameras did experience some teething problems, however, new models that 
we will be launching during the coming year should put us back in front of the market in this area. 
 
Whilst the majority of revenues still arise from the niche  hybrid' market, for several years we have been 
investing in product development for the mainstream digital market and are confident of completing a 
successful transition to this much larger market over the coming years.  
 
Ready for HD 
The market is also starting to move from Standard Definition to High Definition. Obviously, identifying 
faces and reading license plates is significantly enhanced through HD but where IndigoVision has 
excelled is in making the technology suitable for mainstream deployment. Our compression is part of this 
- HD only makes sense if it fits on your network and you still get 30 days recording from your storage. But 
we also remain the only manufacturer capable of guaranteeing not to drop a frame.  This is because we 
encode the video in custom hardware and therefore can predictably deliver the requisite processing 
power whatever the CCTV content. Our latency is also the lowest in the industry, essential for smooth 
operator control of PTZ domes. So it's not just about delivering  more pixels', it's about delivering every 
frame, at low bandwidth and without delays. Our first generation HD (the 10000 range) was deployed 
along the US-Canadian border and we believe it remains the largest HD system in the world with over 
1,000 cameras. Our second generation HD (the 11000 range) launched in the last few months and is 
being extremely well received. 
 
It's because we control the end-to-end solution that we've been able to deliver an HD solution for 
mainstream deployment: cost effective, network-friendly, storage-efficient and instant guaranteed-smooth 
video.  
 
Resilient distributed architecture 
The IndigoVision architecture pushes the power and intelligence to the edge of the network, meaning we 
don't route video through expensive servers, each of which constitutes a single-point-of-failure. Our 
cameras and transmitters communicate peer-to-peer direct with operator workstations and recorders and, 
in not needing a central server of any kind, we deliver an inherently resilient and  fault-tolerant' system. 
The IndigoVision architecture is extremely simple yet powerful: no servers, no bottlenecks, cost effective 
and reliable. In terms of competitive advantage, it's as strong as our compression. 
 
Developing people  
We now have four regional leaders, reporting to the CEO, each managing sales, support and marketing 
in their region: North America, EMEA, APAC and Latin America. The purpose of this is to prepare us for 
the next stage of growth by locating management of all customer-related functions as close as possible to 
the market so we can be as responsive as possible and adapt to local business cultures. APAC and Latin 
America have grown strongly over the last 12 months, a trend we expect to continue. Within EMEA, 
continental Europe was restructured 12 months ago and over the last 6 months has started to grow once 
more. We have just appointed a new leader for our North American business, who joins us from a US 
competitor, and we anticipate growth will resume within the current year. 
In May we appointed a new head of Product Management and separated it from Engineering in order to 
bring more market focus to our product roadmap. At the same time we appointed an Engineering 
Manager reporting to the Chief Executive, thus ensuring closer ownership of technology leadership at the 
highest management level. 
 
   IndigoVision Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2010 
 
 
4 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
Dividend 
Last year, IndigoVision paid a dividend of 5.0p per share.  This year, reflecting the strong balance sheet 
and a more encouraging start to the current year, the directors are recommending an increased dividend 
of 7.5p per share.  At this level the dividend would be covered 3.6 times. 
 
The payment of the dividend is subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting.  If approved, the dividend will be paid on 18 November 2010 to shareholders on the register on 
29 October 2010. 
 
Outlook 
We have had an encouraging start to the current year, with sales for the first 8 weeks comfortably ahead 
of the corresponding period last year.  However, performance remains mixed across the regions and the 
business climate remains uncertain. 
 
In the developed world, where our activities are predominantly focussed, the practical effects of reducing 
both public spending and government borrowing will continue to have an impact.  Conversely, growth 
continues apace in some developing economies.   
 
More positively, the market in which we operate continues to grow, with IP replacing analogue technology 
at an increasing rate.  We also expect benefits to start to flow from the greater investment we have made 
in research and product development, producing products that enable access to a larger market. 
 
Overall, therefore, we continue to view the long term future for IndigoVision positively.  For the current 
year, we have a cautious sense of optimism in IndigoVision's business, underscored by the encouraging 
start to the new financial year's trading. 
 
 
 
 
 
Hamish Grossart 
Chairman   
28 September 2010 
 