 2
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2003 
Chairman's Report
The difficulties experienced by the Group during the first half
of the year ended 28th February 2003 have been well
documented in the interim report and therefore it is my
intention here to outline the excellent progress that has been
made in turning around the fortunes of the Group in the
second half of the year. In that regard some difficult decisions
have had to be made in order to tighten up the Group' s
financial and management controls. The results of this action
are now beginning to be manifest and are outlined in more
detail in the trading review below. 
Results
For the year ended 28th February 2003, Group turnover
increased by 8.1% to  98.8m. Pre-tax loss before goodwill
was  0.3m (2002 -  2.4m profit). After tax and minority
interest of  0.4m (2002 -  1.0m) loss attributable to
shareholders was  1.0m (2002 -  1.1m profit).
Basic loss per share was 4.1p (2002 - 4.7p profit). At 28th
February 2003 total net assets, excluding minority interests,
were  27.3m equating to  1.10 per share.
Dividends
At the interim announcement it was noted that the directors
felt it inappropriate to pay an interim dividend. In the light of
the working capital improvements achieved in the second
half of the year and the Group' s improving  prospects, the
directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.0p per share
be paid (2002 - total dividend 6.0p).
Balance Sheet
One of the most significant improvements during the second
half of the year ended 28th February 2003 has been the
much improved control over working capital within G&A
Limited (G&A) which has naturally fed through into the Group
balance sheet. Tighter financial controls under the new G&A
finance director have contributed significantly but
undoubtedly the biggest impact has been in the area of stock
planning and purchasing. A supply chain specialist has been
brought in to establish best practice  in stock systems. The
impact on the stock balances within G&A has been marked,
resulting in Group stock levels dropping by  4.2m with further
reductions planned in the current financial year. This, together
with tighter controls on debtors, has resulted in Group
borrowings (including leased gold) reducing by  3.6m in the
year to  25.0m, despite having paid off  3.4m in loan notes
to the Brown & Newirth Limited (B&N) directors and invested
around  2m in Abbeycrest Thailand in the year. This has
resulted in a reduction in year end gearing to 88% (2002 -
97%). The directors foresee a further significant reduction in
gearing next year as the improved planning and purchasing
systems take effect over a full trading cycle. 
Review of Business
Whilst the Group experienced a number of operational issues
in the first half of the financial year, it has been encouraging
that demand has remained robust and Group sales have
increased by 8.1%. The improvements in practices and
procedures in key areas across the Group should mean that
turnover should convert through more effectively to profit in
the current year rather than being lost in inefficiencies.
Diamond product supplied to G&A by Dynamic Creations. Gemset product supplied to G&A by Essex International. 3
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2003 
The UK
G&A Ltd generates around 80% of the Group' s turnover and
remains one of Europe' s largest distributors of gold and
gemset jewellery. The pre-tax loss of  1.9m (2002 -  0.3m
profit) has to be set against the context of significant re-
assessment of provisions made at the previous year-end
which, when reviewed at the half-year, were shown to be
inadequate. The largest single item in this process was an
additional stock provision of  1.9m to cover excess and
obsolete stock with a gross value of around  6m. Progress in
disposing of this excess stock has been pleasing, with
around  2.2m being sold in the second half of the year. G & A
is now operating on a much tighter basis with regard to
customer stock returns. 
I am pleased to report that the SAP computer system, about
which much has previously been written, is performing
adequately to support the business. Levels of customer
service have now returned to those enjoyed before the
system was implemented.  A business process review has
been undertaken and a drive is well underway to simplify the
business and apply strict commercial criteria to all operational
areas. It is anticipated that the benefits of this will be felt in
enhanced gross margins.
The downscaling of the G&A gold jewellery manufacturing
facility in Birmingham has proceeded extremely well with
assembly of product being established in Thailand. The move
has unfortunately led to job losses in the UK but it is essential
that the company remains competitive in world markets.
B&N our market leading wedding ring manufacturer, has
completed another excellent year with record sales and pre-
tax profits.  B&N has proved a splendid purchase for the
Group and has outperformed projections made at the time of
acquisition.
DRT , the Group' s wristwear manufacturer based in T eesside,
produced a disappointing result for the year with a small pre-
tax loss, largely due to a move in fashion away from its staple
product, the lightweight gate  bracelet. A new range of
products introduced at Christmas has been well received by
the market and the Group looks forward to a positive
contribution this year. 
Eric' s Jewellers Ltd continues to provide a useful outlet to
dispose of excess inventories and recorded an excellent
increase in pre-tax profit and strong cash generation.
DRT range of contemporary wristware manufactured for the
independent market.
B&N diamond wedding rings. 4
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2003 
Chairman's Report
continued 
Overseas
Dynamic Creations Limited, based in Hong Kong, continues
to go from strength to strength and provides an excellent
source of innovative low cost gemset product for the UK
multiple market and new export markets.  Turnover rose 6%
to  12.1m with pre-tax profits rising 30% to  1.6m.
As noted above, the Group has opened a brand new
purpose built factory in Lamphun in northern Thailand under
the Abbeycrest Thailand Limited  banner. Built to allow low-
cost, world-class assembly of gold jewellery, the transfer of
production out from our Birmingham site has gone better
than expected. The benefits of this low cost base will only be
felt for the first time in the current financial year.  Commercial
production commenced in February 2003.
Essex International, based in Thailand, has had a mixed year
with well-publicised management issues having to be
addressed. The company recorded a loss before tax of
 0.2m for the year ended 28th February 2003 (2002 -  0.2m
profit) The process of recruiting has been completed and we
look forward to the current financial year with confidence in
the new management. In addition a cost reduction
programme has been instituted together with a centralisation
of production by closing the two existing factories and
sharing the new facilities recently opened by Abbeycrest
Thailand. It is anticipated that this will give rise to significant
operating synergies, though the effect of these will only really
be felt in the year 2004/05.
People
The first half of the year was a testing one for our employees,
particularly within G&A and Essex International. The reaction
of our employees to such challenges has been excellent and
is a contributor to the optimism with which we have entered
the new financial year and I would like to thank them for this.
Current Trading
Sales in G&A, the main trading subsidiary of the Group, have
begun the year ahead of our targets helped by lower
crediting levels, a reflection of the better levels of customer
service being delivered. In the interim statement I stated that
the challenge for the management was to ensure that the
areas of business that the company is involved in translate
efficiently through to the bottom line. I am pleased to report
that this challenge has been met and we are now seeing the
benefits in enhanced financial performance.
Elsewhere within the Group I am pleased to report that sales
overall for the first month of the new financial year at the other
Group subsidiaries have exceeded both the equivalent
period last year and budget. For the second month we have
seen a slowdown, which we believe to be a temporary
reaction to international events.
Prospects
As indicated above, initial indications for the current financial
year are promising. The improvements that have been
achieved in the operation and control of G&A, in particular,
and the Group in general over the second half of the year to
28th February 2003 have been manifest and are already
bearing fruit. The commercial advantages and growth
potential of Abbeycrest Thailand' s new gold jewellery factory
will be felt in the current financial year, as will the
concentration of Essex International' s production on the
same site. 
The business review process, established in September
2002, continues with the aims of focusing and simplifying the
business and I anticipate reporting the benefits of this later in
the year and returning, in due course, Abbeycrest Plc to
historical levels of financial performance. 
Michael Lever, Chairman
10 June 2003
Abbeycrest (Thailand) Limited's new factory opened 
February 2003
Gold jewellery product assembled in the new 
Abbeycrest (Thailand) factory