 Executive Chairman's review
Dear Shareholder,
 
Significantly , our full year results for 2012 showed a solid return  
to growth for our core Mobile Satellite Services business. This is 
despite a difficult environment, with the pull-out in Afghanistan and 
the pressure on global maritime shipping rates. Results for 2011 
included significant revenues from our Cooperation Agreement 
with LightSquared which did not continue at the same level in 2012. 
If we exclude these, our underlying revenues in 2012 increased by 
just over 6%, which is a real and positive development for us.  
Our cash flow remains strong and our balance sheet is healthy . 
We are proposing a final dividend, payable at the end of May , of 
27.45 cents US$ per share. We are delighted once again to deliver 
improving dividend payments. The total dividend proposed and 
paid for 2012 will be 10% higher than in 2011. This increase delivers 
on the commitment we made to grow the dividend by 10% per 
year for three years and completes this commitment. We remain 
committed to a goal of sustainable increases in dividend payments 
going forward.
2012 saw some significant changes for Inmarsat as a business.  
We split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the 
beginning of the year . The Inmarsat plc Board is delighted with 
Andrew Sukawaty 
Executive Chairman
Long-term Infrastructure Investment
Future launches
Lifespan of current fleet 
Inmarsat-2
Launched 1990-92 ~2014
Inmarsat-3
Launched 1996-98 ~2018
Inmarsat-4
Launched 2005-08 ~2023
Alphasat
Future launch of an  
L-band satellite 2013 ~2028
 
Inmarsat-5
Future launch of 3 Ka-band  
satellites 2013-14 ~2029 
how Rupert Pearce has stepped into the role of Chief Executive 
and is leading the business. He has led a series of changes in 
management and in our structure to coincide with our objectives  
of focusing on our customers more closely and to align along 
vertical lines of business. We have a stronger management team  
in place as a result, which is focused on delivering our revenue and 
profitability growth targets. The Board of Directors has confidence 
they will achieve this. 
T o simplify how we present ourselves to the market, we brought 
together all our subsidiary companies to operate under the 
Inmarsat brand name and we believe this has been beneficial for 
all our stakeholders - our partners, customers and employees.  
Our global workforce is now more than 1,600 strong and with  
over 45 nationalities employed across the business. This represents 
how we have remained a truly global business. It gives us local 
knowledge and experience to serve our partners and customers 
throughout the globe. We have an outstanding Board of Directors 
and have the right mix and skills to support our business going 
forward. Nevertheless, we plan to add two new non-executive 
Board members over the next two years so that we maintain an 
appropriate refreshment of Board membership in the years ahead. 
This year , we supplemented our annual assessment of Board 
effectiveness with an independent outside advisor . The review 
confirmed the effectiveness of the Board, while recommending 
some fairly minor areas for improvement which we will implement.  
No specific areas of concern were raised.
For over 30 years, our business has served mission critical 
communication needs, providing services where terrestrial 
networks don't effectively go. Continuing to provide customers 
with high levels of reliability , with the most advanced services  
that technology allows, remains fundamental to how we serve  
our customers in the future. We can achieve this by enhancing our 
L-band Inmarsat-4 broadband services for continued long-term 
growth and soon by successfully launching our advanced  
new Ka-band Inmarsat-5 generation of Global Xpress services.  
The services offered on our new Ka-band satellites when  
launched, combined with our existing L-band services, will  
provide a comprehensive package of global coverage, high  
speed, bandwidth, mobility , quality and reliability unrivalled in  
the satellite industry . In addition, our L-band service will benefit 
from more capacity , improved coverage and extended life through 
the addition of, in effect, a fourth Inmarsat-4, called Alphasat.  
Inmarsat plc
Annu Al report A nd A ccounts 2012
04 Our Multiple Paths To Growth Help Us Achieve Our Mission
Inmarsat plc Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success  
of the Group and determines the nature and extent of the risks  
the Group should take to achieve its strategic objectives.
This European Space Agency supported satellite is targeted  
to launch in mid-2013 on an Ariane 5 launch vehicle.
Serving the maritime market is our heritage, with safety at its heart. 
We remain the only satellite provider which meets the International 
Maritime Organization' s standards to offer the Global Maritime 
Distress and Safety System ( GMDSS'), providing mariners with  
the unique opportunity to reliably make a life-saving call. In 
addition, to ensure the future of global maritime safety services,  
we are making the necessary investments to qualify our services  
for safety on our Inmarsat-4 platform. Aviation safety has also been 
a prime global service offering for us; here too we are investing  
to expand safety services to be available on our new generation 
SwiftBroadband service. Investing in future safety services is an 
important part of our public service remit, part of our history and 
an important part of our future.
We also support a number of important humanitarian efforts. 
Central to these is our continued support of T  l coms Sans 
Fronti res ( TSF'). TSF is a telecommunications relief aid agency , 
which is often the first aid agency into disaster areas. Their work, 
with our services in support, benefits not only other aid agencies 
and governments as they assess initial requirements, but also 
supports displaced families, enabling them to contact family  
or friends. On the humanitarian relief side, we also support the 
International T elecommunications Union' s ( ITU') Emergency 
T elecommunications initiative and this year we were honoured  
to receive their Humanitarian Award for this life-saving work. 
We also frequently sponsor both significant sporting events and 
charities which uniquely demonstrate the role Inmarsat services  
can play in remote environments. Examples include our support  
of Guo Chuan in his solo non-stop around the world sailing 
challenge, as well as the completion of another successful  
round the world Volvo Ocean Race. We have also supported 
Race2Recovery , which was the first team made up predominantly 
of wounded service personnel to complete the world' s toughest 
off-road race - the Dakar Rally . 
We continue to be involved and contribute in many areas of  
the space industry - whether through our involvement with 
dedicated government agencies, collaboration work with 
government and education/research organisations, trade 
associations, or our involvement with the valuable work of the 
Space Data Association ( SDA ') which focuses on the ground-
breaking work of space logistics. 
Our strategy is clear and we are focused on how we will achieve it. 
Although the economic and geopolitical climate remains difficult 
for our business, we expect growth for communications in remote 
environments will continue. Therefore, we are investing at the 
highest level in our history to continue our leadership in the 
growing global market of satellite communications. Behind that 
investment stands a committed workforce with significant 
experience in the markets we serve. I would like to thank them  
for another year of extraordinary efforts to keep Inmarsat as the 
global leader in mobile satellite communications. 
Congratulations to Rupert Pearce and the executive  
management team for their leadership in taking the Company 
back to growth and for delivering this message to investors.  
Our stock performance over the year seemed to recognise this  
and we were pleased and proud to have been selected  Best 
Communications PLC' in the UK Stock Market Awards recently 
announced in London. 
We want to thank our shareholders for their continued support,  
and our partners and customers for trusting us to provide them 
with communications services which are vitally important to them.  
It is a responsibility that we take on with the highest degree of 
commitment and dedication.
Andrew Sukawaty
Executive Chairman
7 March 2013 
Our mission  
T o serve mission critical 
communications needs  
where terrestrial networks  
don't go or are ineffective. 
Government & military VSAT services Maritime & Energy Aero passenger connectivity
Handheld voice
Low data  
rate
Managed services
Capacity  
leasing
Government & military
UAVs
Aero passenger 
connectivity
ATC
2014: Global Ka-band satellites and network
1979: Global L-band established franchise
Enterprise
Broadband services
05 Inmarsat plc
Annu Al report A nd A ccounts 2012
2012 Operations / Governance / Financial statements