 03 Innovision Research & Technology plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Summary
Over the past year the Company has made 
good progress winning and extending contracts
and, in particular, won a major new contract 
during the year and another since the year 
end. There has also been significant 
recruitment of new staff, improvements 
to the engineering tools, investment in 
developing our Intellectual Property (IP) 
base and improvement in the financial 
performance. The Company is in a good 
position to exploit the market opportunities 
in the near and medium term.
Financial results
The fi nancial results also show a marked 
improvement from 2005/06. With the benefi t 
of high royalty and licence revenues, turnover 
has more than doubled to  3.5 million 
(2006:  1.7 million). The loss has halved 
to  1.5 million (2006:  3.0 million).
The investment in research and 
development increased to  1.7 million 
(2006:  0.6 million) of which  1.4 million 
related to the development of IP aimed 
primarily at the Near-Field Communications 
(NFC) market, though with general relevance 
to a number of complementary RFID areas. 
This is a signifi cant investment, but it has 
already been endorsed with the signing of 
a recent three year framework agreement 
and it puts us in a strong position going 
forward to capitalise on NFC market growth 
through licence income and development 
revenue relating to customisation for 
specifi c customers. We intend to continue 
to invest in this area to keep ourselves 
at the leading edge of design and 
design techniques.
Development funding from customers 
was relatively unchanged at  1.2 million 
(2006:  1.3 million) while there was a 
notable increase in royalty and licence 
revenue to  1.8 million (2006:  0.3 million). 
The Company also generated  0.4 million 
income (2006:  nil) from product sales 
related to wafer shipments.
Cash reserves at year end stood at  1.8 million
(2006:  4.1 million). The net cash movement for (2006:  4.1 million). The net cash movement for (2006:  4.1 million). The net cash movement
the year has been negatively impacted by 
the timing of some signifi cant payments 
(approximately  1.1 million) on long term 
contracts which are anticipated to reverse 
in the fi rst half of 2007/08. 
However we believe we need to invest 
ahead of the predicted revenues and will 
require additional cash resources. The Company
will therefore announce a placing of 14.4m 
new ordinary shares of 1 pence each 
raising approximately  6.5 million before 
expenses ( 6.2 million net of expenses).
Contracts
We have moved forward on the RFID 
contracts in progress at the beginning of 
the year. Three designs progressed to initial 
prototype design and chips were delivered 
into a novel toy application for a large US 
company. There has also been signifi cant 
progress within the contactless ticketing 
activity for mass transport with the fi rst order 
of a new multi-million unit design win 
received in May 2007.
During the year, the Company secured a 
major new contract in the NFC area and 
since the year-end we have signed a signifi cant
three-year framework agreement for a series 
of Integrated Circuit (IC) designs for NFC. 
Both contracts are with major semiconductor 
companies selling into the mobile handset 
market, which endorses the IP , skills and 
knowledge we have built up in NFC.
Strategy
The Company's strategy remains the 
development and licensing of IC designs 
and IP for the near-fi eld data communications 
market and recent contract wins and current 
opportunities support our belief that we 
have a strong and unique offering in 
this sector.
Our current focus is on NFC and our 
presence as a key player on the NFC Forum, 
our custom IC design capability and our 
investment in growing the IP portfolio provide 
a solid base on which to grow as the NFC 
market develops. We will continue to look 
for additional opportunities to apply our 
design skills and IP within other near-fi eld 
data communications and RFID markets 
both in engineering, licensing and product 
development at chip level (such as Topaz
 
and Jewel
 
) and at systems level.
The Chairman's and the Chief Executive's Report 04 Innovision Research & Technology plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Strategy continued
We are seeking to develop partnerships 
with leading companies whose market, 
geographic reach and capabilities complement
our own. Through these partnerships we 
will continue to offer standards-based 
products and capabilities specifi cally tailored 
to the market they serve.
Markets
We are seeing increasing prominence 
given to NFC, with the mobile operators 
in the GSM Association promoting NFC 
through white papers, statements from 
certain operators that NFC is part of their 
future requirements, mobile handset 
manufacturers identifying NFC on their 
product roadmaps and numerous successful 
trials underway, including use of NFC for 
contactless payments and ticketing, both 
of which are applications targeted by the 
Company. The indications are that mass 
market devices will start to be shipped 
during 2008/09 with growth predicted 
over the following years. 
Our expertise in value-added RFID tags 
has enabled us to tape-out two designs 
in this area which we believe are market 
leading technology. We are targeting further 
RFID designs and expect royalties from 
these products to begin towards the end of 
the 2007/08 and to be material in 2008/09.
Mass Transit remains a potentially large 
market for our contactless ticketing chip, 
Jewel
 
. Overall uptake of contactless 
ticketing by mass transit organisations 
is slower than anticipated and the Jewel
 
chip's market share is lower than we would 
have liked. However, we have recently shipped 
an initial batch to a large transport customer 
and have received a fi rst order of a new 
multi-million unit design win. We continue to 
promote Jewel
 
 and whilst we have scaled 
back our expectations we are confi dent this 
can be a solid revenue stream in the future.
We are constantly looking to fi nd additional 
markets to which our core skills can add 
value. We believe that a standards-based 
approach can be successful in a number of 
markets, both geographic and technology 
specifi c. Our strategy to enter new markets 
is to work with credible partners who have 
the appropriate knowledge, contacts and 
existing market presence to exploit the 
opportunities presented. We have identifi ed 
potential partners in a number of key 
markets and will continue these discussions 
over the coming months.
Operations
The last fi nancial year saw a signifi cant 
expansion of our IC design team and other 
functions in Cirencester, with more than 
20 new hires. We invested heavily in new 
Electronic Design Automation (EDA) design 
tools from Cadence and Mentor Graphics, 
which enable us to more easily interface 
with our sophisticated global semiconductor 
customers in a world-class design environment.
 Our investment in Intellectual Property has already been endorsed 
with the signing of a major three-year multiple design framework 
agreement in May 2007.  05 Innovision Research & Technology plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The Company plays a strong role in the NFC 
standards body (see www.nfc-forum.org), 
where we continue to chair a key technical 
committee and now a key marketing committee.
The Company is recognised as a leader in 
custom IC design for this marketplace and 
our profi le within the NFC Forum and the 
global NFC community in general, combined 
with the IP base and design capability, puts 
us in a strong position to exploit the new 
opportunities as they arise.
Our experience in custom tag and 
reader IC design combined with strong 
systems design skills enabled us to deliver 
approximately eight million tag chips in the 
fi rst half of the year. Furthermore we have 
invested in our chip testing facility and 
in production planning in anticipation of 
mass-market chip and tag demand over 
the next few years.
The Board of Directors
We welcomed Brian McKenzie to replace 
Mike Wroe as Finance Director, and Trevor 
Crotch-Harvey stepped down as Sales Director.
We would like to thank Mike and Trevor for 
their contributions to the company. 
Staff
In the year under review we have 
signifi cantly strengthened our engineering 
capability in Cirencester and consolidated 
the organisational structure and now have 
an excellent team in place. We would like 
to thank everyone at the Company for their 
continued hard work and commitment. 
Outlook
The Company is confi dent of building 
on the achievements of the past year with 
good prospects of further contract wins. 
As ever, the exact timing and nature of 
contracts is diffi cult to predict, although 
there has been a steady increase in the 
interest in and demand for our capabilities 
and business offering from a steadily 
growing prospect list. This is made up 
primarily of top global semiconductor 
corporations who see our IP and custom 
development capabilities as a way to add 
considerable value to their own products 
whilst reducing their risk, time to market, 
cost and deployment of precious design 
resources to add unique NFC capability.
Malcolm Baggott
Chairman
19 June 2007
David Wollen
Chief Executive Offi cer
19 June 2007
 The last fi nancial year saw a signifi cant expansion of our IC design 
team and other functions in Cirencester, with more than 20 new 
hires and investment in new electronic design tools from Cadence 
and Mentor Graphics. 