 Chairman's Statement 
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009 3 
 
Introduction 
I am pleased to report that the Group has performed in line with profit expectations, ahead of 
expectations on cash generation and solid progress has been made in all core areas of the 
business.  
As expected the period under review was one of stabilisation and consolidation after an 
exceptionally difficult FY08, which was dominated by a series of significant corporate events 
and restructurings, most notably the withdrawal from the traditional Pubs sector. Our 
restructuring is now complete with the management team having achieved the twin objectives 
of delivering improving incomes and service levels for our customers whilst at the same time 
fundamentally restructuring the Group's operations. 
Our progress in meeting our customers' objectives is evidenced by a large number of contract 
wins, renewals and extensions across all four divisions. These include: 
Betting and Street Gaming 
  Agreement to roll-out 5,700 of Inspired's new widescreen high-definition Category B2/B3 
terminals ( Storm') in the William Hill LBO estate. The roll-out has been accompanied by a 
one-year extension to the current agreement to the end of 2012. Over 3,500 terminals have 
been installed by January 2010 and have replaced Inspired's existing Rainmaker terminals. 
  Agreement to become Sisal Group's preferred strategic technology partner for a major   
roll-out of video lottery terminals in Italy. Sisal is one of ten licensees to introduce this new 
category of gaming machine in venues from 2010 onwards. Inspired will supply a minimum 
of 2,000 SBG machines with gaming content.  
  Strategic alliance with Gauselmann Group, Germany's largest machines operator and a 
leading machine manufacturer. The alliance provides Inspired with high quality, 
competitively priced terminals and opportunities for both companies to co-operate on SBG 
terminal and slot games provision internationally. 
  Shortly after the Financial Year end Inspired renewed its exclusive contracts to operate 
Category B2/B3 terminals with Betfred for a further five years and Paddy Power for a 
further four years.  
  William Hill, Betfred and Paddy Power accounted for over 70% of FY09 Betting and Street 
Gaming turnover in the Financial Year. 
Casino and Bingo 
  Agreement with Gala Bingo to deploy an additional 3,600 bingo handheld terminals taking 
the total amount of electronic bingo terminals supplied by Inspired on the Gala Gaming 
Platform to over 6,800.  
  Agreement to supply Genting UK with Multi-Win Roulette table gaming product to ten 
casinos. This follows the strong performance of the initial supply of terminals that are 
already installed in Genting UK casinos. 
Leisure  
  Extension of contract with Bourne Leisure to 2017.  
  Renewal of contract with Park Resorts to December 2012.   
  Two-year extension to September 2012 of exclusive agreement with RoadChef  
  A new three-year contract to September 2012 to supply Moto Hospitality with over 1,000 
gaming machines to its 45 locations throughout the UK.  
  These customers accounted for over 54% of FY09 Leisure division turnover. 
Virtual Racing Systems 
  Agreement with Bet365 to deploy Virtual Sports content on its gaming portal. 
  Deployment of virtual content by Stanleybet in various new markets following prior year 
agreement for launches in Poland and Cyprus with more countries expected to follow.  Chairman's Statement 
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009 4 
 
  Since the year end the division has signed a ten-year agreement with Betfred to provide its 
virtual content throughout its retail estate. 
The Group has been reorganised following the exit from the Pubs business in 2008. The cost 
base has been rationalised, reporting lines simplified and even stricter criteria applied to new 
investment opportunities. This has resulted in a direct cost annualised run rate across the total 
business at the end of the Financial Year, which is significantly lower than at the start of the 
Financial Year. In addition, an increased focus on cash generation resulted in the cash balance 
at year end of  24.4m being ahead of the Directors' expectations.  
The operational transfer of the Pubs division to Danoptra Holdings Limited is now complete. 
The cash costs of exiting the Pubs division are expected to be below the expectations set in 
July 2008. The balance of  4.0m (discounted) relates, primarily, to rental payments on 
unoccupied leased properties. 
Summary Financial Performance 
The financial performance of the continuing operations, which comprise Betting and Street 
Gaming, Casino and Bingo, Leisure and Virtual Racing Systems, is set out below. 
 
Continuing operations 
Year ended
26 September 2009
 m
Year ended 
27 September 2008 
 m
Revenue 87.3 89.0 
EBITDA
1
 34.3 37.2 
Adjusted operating profit
2
 9.4 13.5 
Operating profit 7.7 (14.1)
1
  EBITDA' represents earnings before finance costs, income tax expense, depreciation and amortisation, exceptional 
items and share based payment credit. 
2
  Adjusted operating profit' is stated before exceptional items and share based payment credit. 
 
EBITDA
 
and Adjusted operating profit for the continuing operations were  34.3m and  9.4m 
respectively representing declines of  2.9m and  4.1m compared to the previous financial year. 
The declines are principally due to some consumer weakness in bowling alleys combined with 
the full year effect of the renewed Category B2/B3 supply contract with William Hill which was 
signed in January 2008 and resulted in a reduction in machine volumes and pricing. The 
underlying performance in Fixed Odds Betting Terminals has been resilient with gross win per 
machine (cash retained after payout) increasing 6% during the period and all our key FOBT 
contracts have been renewed on multi-year contracts. EBITDA in the second half of the 
Financial Year was higher than the corresponding period in FY08 (FY09:  21.3m, FY08: 
 20.9m) highlighting an improved profit trend. Operating profit of  7.7m is stated after a credit 
for share based payments of  0.9m and a deduction for exceptional items of  2.6m arising from 
the previously announced restructuring and the professional fees arising from a sales process 
which was terminated in March 2009.  
Net senior debt (excluding Convertible Preference Shares and unamortised bank fees) at 26 
September 2009 was  55.1m which includes cash on balance sheet of  24.4m. The Group has 
unutilised bank facilities of  7.0m as well as the ability to finance capital expenditure under 
finance lease facilities up to a maximum of  17.5m. The Directors remain comfortable with the 
Group's covenant headroom.   
Corporate Developments  
On 22 April 2009, the Company satisfied the second and final earn out net payment of  10.4m 
with the vendors of Red Vision Limited ('Red Vision'). The earn out was satisfied by the issue of 
10,375,754 new Convertible Preference Shares of 1p (redemption price  10,375,754).           
As noted below these Convertible Preference Shares were later converted to New Ordinary 
Shares following a capital reorganisation post the Financial Year end.  Chairman's Statement 
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009 5 
 
On 28 July 2009, the Company announced that it had received an approach which may or may 
not lead to an offer being made for the Company's issued share capital. Discussions are now 
continuing with a number of parties, which may or may not lead to an offer being made for the 
issued and to be issued share capital of the Company or one or more parts of the Company's 
business. At the present time, there can be no certainty that any such offer will be made, either 
on terms which will be acceptable to the Company and/or shareholders or at all. Further 
announcements will be made as and when appropriate. 
A capital reorganisation was effected on 27 November 2009 as the Board was concerned about 
the complexity of Inspired's capital structure and its impact on the relatively low liquidity in 
trading in the Company's listed Ordinary Shares and Convertible Preference Shares. Following 
discussions with certain of the Company's larger shareholders, the Board 
recommended that the Company's share capital be reorganised into one class of New Ordinary 
Shares. The share capital was previously held approximately  90% by the Convertible 
Preference Share holders and 10% by the Ordinary Share holders at the time of the 
reorganisation. Following the reorganisation the Company had 124,081,372 New Ordinary 
Shares in issue. 
People 
Steve Rogers was appointed to the Board on 22 April 2009. Steve was a founding member of 
Red Vision and now leads the Virtual Racing Systems division, a key constituent of the Group's 
portfolio due to its growth potential. As announced previously, Norman Crowley who served as 
Co-Chief Executive Officer alongside Luke Alvarez decided to step down from the Board at the 
end of March 2009. 
 
Once again, I would like to thank our employees for their creativity, dedication and hard work 
throughout this period. Their professionalism and enthusiasm are at the heart of Inspired's 
achievements and the Board is hugely appreciative of their efforts.  
 
Current Trading and Prospects 
The current year has started in line with our plans. While the Board is ever mindful of current 
economic uncertainties, we believe that the Group is well placed to deliver shareholder value 
owing to the resilience of its key market segments, a long-term customer contract base and its 
leading SBG technology. 
 
 
 
Russell Hoyle 
Chairman        19 January 2010 