 This financial year has been positive for Intandem as we continue towards becoming a profitable company. We have
built on our efforts last year and now have a slate of new film scripts to which Intandem has been appointed sales
agent which consists of over 20 films with estimated total budgets in excess of $250 million.
Results
During the year two new films generated commission income and since the year end three additional films have
commenced production and are now in post production which will earn commission income for the current financial
year. As a result turnover increased by 10% to  469,482 compared with  425,153 for the previous year. A number of
our film projects were delayed for various reasons, however we expect to see revenues from these films from the
current financial year. 
The operating loss, which included a charge of  90,564 for share option accounting and a write down of  40,783
against film assets, was reduced from  642,047 to  436,939. Loss before tax was  464,473 against a profit of  3,314,404
in 2010. Last year's profit included a one-off benefit of  3,924,647 as a result of selling a film asset. The Board is
conscious of the need to generate higher revenues to stem the operating losses and the directors are implementing a
strategy that we believe will lead to sustained profitability.
Film Activity
During the period, Intandem was appointed as international sales company for nine new films. Two were completed
during the year,  The Veteran' and  Screwed'.
In February 2011, Intandem was appointed as international sales company for  K-11', a psychological thriller set in the
Los Angeles County's Men's Central Jail. The film is now in post production and is scheduled to premiere in February
2012 at the Berlin Film Festival.
Other films which started production include  Comes a Bright Day' which stars emerging talent Imogen Poots and Craig
Roberts alongside industry veterans Timothy Spall and Kevin McKidd and  Ecstasy', based on the novel of the same
name by Irvine Welsh. In addition, the Company has helped to close the financing on the 3D thriller,  Glimmer' which
is expected to start production in the first quarter of 2012. 
In May 2011, Intandem signed an agreement with Mary Alice Productions for the production and international sales
of a slate of films in the $20 million-$40 million budget range. Intandem is currently working with Mary Alice to close
the finance for the first two films under the arrangement,  Section 8', a $25 million comedy and  Tupac', a $15 million
documentary film.
Post Period Film Activity
Since the year end Intandem has been appointed as international sales company for Danny De Vito's $28m dollar
budget action family film  The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle', for which it is working with the producers in
sourcing finance, and $20 million budget thriller  Lucidity', which is being fully financed through the producers. These
appointments are aligned with our strategy to represent larger budget films and we look to continue this in the next
financial year. 
In addition, the Company closed an agreement with California based IFA Films (IFA ) for IFA to supply Intandem with
films for representation for sales outside North America. IFA will release the films in North America.
Current Strategy and Objectives
Intandem's objective is to be one of the World's leading independent film companies within the next five years which
means generating significantly higher revenues and profits. We will do this by representing bigger films to generate
more Executive Producer fees and commission income on international sales and by widening the scope of our business
within the film industry.
The key to achieving our objective is to represent larger budget films which have worldwide appeal and to exploit the
maximum distribution rights possible. The Board's target is to build its catalogue of new films at the rate of at least six
Chairman's Statement
2 Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts films per annum with an average budget of  10million. This would result in thirty new films with budgets of
 300 million in the next five years.
The following action has been taken as part of our strategy of becoming a leading film company.
Increased presence in Los Angeles
Los Angeles is the centre of the film industry with all the top distributors, producers, financiers, agents and talent
having representation in the city. During 2011, I have personally spent much more time in Los Angeles to negotiate
rights in larger budget films and as a result, in April, the Company took out a lease on a property in Santa Monica.
There is no doubt that there is demand from film distributors around the world for American, commercial feature films
which can attract star  talent and achieve a wide cinema release. These are the types of films we are aiming to supply
to our international clients.
One of the reasons for the loss in the year to 30 June 2011 is that some of the films which we had expected to start
production were delayed for various reasons. We are working hard with each of the film's producers to convert the
film projects into completed films and we have a tremendous opportunity to create a valuable library of new and
exciting film titles. Many of the films will have major film stars attached to them which will increase the chances of
achieving a cinema release throughout the world, resulting in significantly higher revenues. 
Greater control over the financing of films
Some of the delays in production during the year were as a result of challenges to film financing. During a period of
tight controls over credit in world financial markets, it is not surprising that capital projects such as film production
have suffered. Despite these setbacks, we believe that a balanced portfolio of quality, commercial film assets represents
an attractive alternative investment opportunity for investors.
Intandem has a policy of not investing its own resources into film production. However, we are investigating the
possibility of setting up a film fund which would be managed by Intandem. The Board has taken the first steps in
preparing a funding document with the intention of raising funds to speed up the process of taking a film project from
the script stage into production.
The objective is to increase our chances in achieving a minimum of at least  60 million of new films each year.
New opportunities as a result of the digital revolution
The film industry is a major beneficiary of new technology and Intandem intends to take advantage of the
opportunities available to it. The main changes affect how film assets can be distributed with a multitude of digital
platforms opening up throughout the world. The platforms include cinema, television through video on demand, and
all mobile technology.
As well as increasing the number of distribution outlets, the new technology greatly reduces the costs of distribution,
especially with regards to video on demand.
In addition, the marketing of films can be much more effective on a worldwide basis thanks to the plethora of social
networks which are opening. During the year, Intandem carried out detailed research into how to maximise the use of
social networks in the marketing of its films.
Strengthened Board
As part of the Company's strategy to exploit the increased distribution opportunities open to it, the Board appointed
Robert Mitchell as a non executive director in November 2011. Robert is one of the most experienced film distributors
in the UK. He was formerly the Managing Director of Buena Vista UK, the distribution arm of Walt Disney Studios. 
Robert has experience of releasing a wide range of films including  Pirates of the Caribbean ,  Toy Story' and  The Boy
in the Striped Pyjamas'. He has been responsible for releasing eight out of the top forty two films ever released in the
UK. Robert has a wide network of contacts throughout the film industry and we are delighted to have attracted him
Chairman's Statement
continued
Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts 3 to the Board and are looking forward to him making a valuable contribution to the future growth of Intandem. We
will continue to look to strengthen our Board as we strive to achieve our objective of becoming one of the World's
leading independent film companies.
Future Prospects
The Board believes that despite the difficult global economic conditions, the film industry currently offers many
opportunities for a company like Intandem to achieve significant growth. Intandem has a very clear strategy and a
sustainable business model. We have worked, and will continue to work, diligently in increasing the quality and
number of films we represent. Our aim is to increase the conversion rate from script to production during 2012. This
will initially increase the level of Executive Producer fees earned and will subsequently increase the value of sales
commission generated as the films complete production.
We will continue to look for new sources of revenues which complement our existing business of Executive Production
and International Film Sales and will grow the business in a controlled manner.
Finally, I would like to say a big thank you to the shareholders who supported a fundraising of  578,400 in July 2011,
and to our employees who continue to work hard and conscientiously towards meeting our objectives at a very exciting
time for Intandem.
You can follow the progress of Intandem via its website at www.intandemfilms.com.
Gary Smith
Chairman
22 December 2011
Chairman's Statement
continued
4 Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts