 There have been a number of significant developments at Intandem during the year ending 30 June 2012 - focusing on
strengthening our infrastructure with a view to achieving Intandem's goal of becoming a leading independent film
company. 
The Company strengthened its presence in Los Angeles with the aim of sourcing new film projects with worldwide
commercial value while also increasing influence over the productions of films. We also established a UK film distribution
company - Intandem Film Distributors Ltd (IFD ) to increase our control over the marketing of our films to UK
consumers. IFD is headed up by Robert Mitchell, who was previously Managing Director of Buena Vista UK, the film
distribution division of Walt Disney. In addition, we increased our social media marketing activity which we believe is an
important element of the marketing mix in today's digital age, and an area through which we intend to develop a
number of revenue generating initiatives. 
As we have been implementing the infrastructure changes, the short term results have suffered due to the one-off costs
ahead of generating revenue from them. The results for the year showed a reduction in turnover to  363,087
(2011:  469,482) and an increase in the Loss Before Tax to  1,129,945 (2011:  464,473). The loss per share increased to
0.85 pence (2011: 0.42 pence). 
Film Activity
During the year, we represented two new films, namely Ecstasy and Comes a Bright Day. We also signed an additional
three films which were delivered after the year end. Any commissions on the sales of those films will fall into the year
ending 30 June 2013. These films are K-11, Grassroots and Believe (formerly known as Theatre of Dreams).
All the above are below the typical budget level of the films for which Intandem wants to be appointed as sales company
and UK distributor. Typically, we would like the average budget level of an Intandem film  to be approximately
$15 million, with a range from $8 million-$30 million as films with budgets that fall into this range should attract a
strong enough cast to secure a cinema release.
One of the reasons for increasing our presence in Los Angeles is to take greater control over the financing and production
of the films to which we are attached. During the year to 30 June 2012, five major films that were scheduled to start
production were either delayed or cancelled completely. Three of the films, Section 8, Tupac the Movie and Your Perfect
Angel may still progress to production, but two of them, Glimmer and Lucidity have now been cancelled resulting in
lost potential fees and commissions to Intandem of approximately  500,000. Intandem has since established a stronger
position in the rights it holds on the films for which it raises finance with a view to reducing the frequency of films
failing to commence production. 
One of the first films to be produced under Intandem is 10 Things I Hate About Life, which, commenced production in
Los Angeles on 17 December 2012, and is due to be launched at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2013. Intandem is a
co-producer on the film, the worldwide sales company and the UK distributor. The film is produced by Andrew Lazar
(Cats and Dogs) and written and directed by Gil Junger, the team behind the film 10 Things I Hate About You which
grossed over $50 million at the box office in 1999.
Intandem has helped to develop the script; raised the financing for the film principally through an EIS company and is
co-ordinating the worldwide marketing of the film. Our Los Angeles office secured funding from the Californian Film
Commission of $1.7 million to allow the film to be shot on location in Malibu, Santa Monica and Venice, California. 
The film stars Evan Rachel Wood (Ides of March) and will feature Jessie J, the UK singer in her first film appearance. We
are very excited at the commercial prospects for 10 Things I Hate About Life and, through our strong relationship with
Andrew Lazar and Gil Junger, we plan to develop the 10 Things  brand into a relationship comedy franchise. 
New Film Projects
I am delighted to report that Intandem has been appointed as co-producer, sales agent and UK distributor for four new
film projects, namely, Famous, Clean and Drifter which are sourced from Los Angeles and have combined budgets of
approximately $33 million, and The Laureate which will be shot in the UK for a budget of approximately $10 million.
Chairman's Statement
2    Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts Famous is set in New York and is a modern day American Gigolo. It will star Rosario Dawson and Famke Jansen and will
be directed by David Foote. It is due to start production in the second quarter of 2013.
Clean is an action thriller set in London and India. An offer has been made to a major action film star. The film will be
directed by Ry hei Kitamura who is known for such films as The Midnight Meat Train for independent film studio
Lionsgate which starred Bradley Cooper. Clean is due to commence production in the third quarter of 2013.
Drifter is a psychological thriller set in Louisiana. The film will be directed by Lyndon Chubbuck and is due to start
production in Spring 2013.
The Laureate is a powerful drama based on the life of poet and novelist, Robert Graves. The film is a co-production with
Pinewood Studios and is expected to start filming in the second quarter of 2013. The Laureate will be directed by William
Nunez and will star Sam Claflin (Hunger Games 2, Snow White & The Huntsman) and Imogen Poots (Fright Night, V For
Vendetta).
Film Financing Structure
As part of the Company's strategy of taking greater control over the films that it represents, Intandem has set up a film
financing structure which commenced with 10 Things I Hate About Life and will be implemented on most of our films
from the first quarter of 2013. 
The structure uses the Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS ) as a core source of funding for our slate of films. The plan
is to establish up to five EIS film production companies which will each raise up to  5 million. 
The films included in the slate will be the above four films plus three existing films, namely The True Confessions of
Charlotte Doyle, an action family film directed by Danny DeVito and starring Morgan Freeman; Your Perfect Angel, a
romantic comedy set around internet dating and Catweazle, based on the character featured in a UK television series.
The budgets of these three films are approximately $52 million giving a combined budget for the slate of approximately
$85 million.
Apart from the EIS company's equity investment, the finance structure for each film will include tax credits from the
location of the production, presales to international distributors sourced by Intandem, and bank debt financing.
The reason we are able to utilise the EIS structure now rather than in the past is due to the changes made by the UK
Government during 2012 which increased the amount that a qualifying Company can raise from  2 million to  5 million
in any 12 month period - making it more worthwhile for the bigger budget films. Our policy is also in line with the
findings of a Government report on the UK film industry which urged companies to focus on more commercial films
which appeal to an international audience. This is supported by Screen International, the film trade journal, which,
following the American Film Market in November 2012, stated that the overall feeling was that Buyers continue to be
highly selective with a focus on commercial elements and known directors. The top end of the market is healthy where
there is a theatrical component to the deal. Business is slimmer for smaller titles which continue to be challenged by the
decline in DVD and TV values and the continuing inflexibility of the windows system. 
UK Distribution
During the year, Intandem established a UK Distribution business headed by the former managing director of Disney
UK, Robert Mitchell. The team is completed by former Disney marketing manager, JJ Donovan and former Sales Director
at 20th Century Fox in the UK, Terry Dove. Intandem is making this important strategic move at a time in the film market
when cinema releases for films are vital to their commercial success. In addition, the digital revolution is reducing the
cost of distributing films while increasing the number of consumers that can be reached through digital marketing and
social network marketing.
We have recruited a very experienced team that should generate significant revenues from the Company's upcoming
slate of films. Between them they have released 15 out of the top 50 films ever released in the UK as well as commercially
successful independent films such as Little Miss Sunshine and Kill Bill.
Chairman's Statement
continued
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts     3 Outlook
Whilst Intandem's strategy has taken longer to materialise than the Board would have liked, the outlook for the
Company in the medium and longer term is very encouraging. We have assembled a very commercial slate of films
through our increased presence in Los Angeles and have developed a film financing structure which should allow for a
large proportion of the slate to be financed during the current financial year.
As always, I would like to thank all employees for their hard work and dedication to the Company and to our
shareholders for their support during the last 12 months.
You can follow Intandem's progress on our website, which was redesigned during the year, www.intandemfilms.com, as
well as on Facebook and Twitter (@intandemfilms).
Gary Smith
Chairman
19 December 2012 
Chairman's Statement
continued
4    Intandem Films Plc Report and Accounts