 04    INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Job:	 09771	INTEC	AR	FRONT_AW2	 Proof:	 04	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Gem	 Date:	 15.01.2008	
Server:	 Studio	I	 Set-up:	 Tim	 First	Read/Revisions
CHAIRMAN & INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S STATEMENT
Imp Rov Ed p ERFo Rm Anc E
JOHN HUGHES
CHAIRMAN &
INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 During 2007, we demonstrated material contract wins with 
significant players, bolstering our position as a technology 
leader within the highly competitive telecoms solutions 
market. We took steps to improve the operations of  
the business and met our objective of achieving better 
financial performance.  
YEAR IN REVIEW
We pledged this year to improve the financial 
performance of the business. To that end we 
made changes to the management team, 
continued the focus on cost reduction and 
operational efficiencies and worked diligently  
to win new contracts. I am pleased to report that 
the operational actions have begun to pay off, 
enabling us to meet our objective of better 
financial performance in 2007. We have delivered 
margin, revenue and EBITDA improvement slightly 
above expectations despite the currency 
headwind. Although we are pleased with current 
progress after an unsatisfactory 2006 there is still 
both the opportunity and need to enhance the 
financial performance of Intec, and 2008 should 
see further operational improvement alongside  
a continued focus on delivering top-line growth.
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Revenue for the year was up 8% to  124.5 
million with EBITDA before exceptionals and 
goodwill impairment up 119% to  14.7 million, 
compared to  6.7 million in 2006. Revenue was 
up 15% in constant currency. Cash less bank 
loans at the period end was up 21% to  22.6 
million in 2007, from  18.6 million in 2006.
Intec is a truly global business with over 90% of 
revenues being generated outside the UK. The 
year saw marked revenue increase across the 
North American, EMEA and APAC regions, 
driven by new customer wins and successful 
cross-selling. Whilst the performance of our 
Caribbean and Latin American region (CALA) 
was somewhat disappointing we have been 
notified that we are the preferred bidder on  
a large convergent billing contract which we  
are in the process of finalising; assuming it is 
secured, it will help underpin our expectations 
for growth in the CALA region in 2008.
Looking at the past year, it is clear that the 
second half (H2) has better demonstrated the 
operational and financial progress that we 
targeted as improvements have taken effect. 
This is reflected in our EBITDA margins, which 
rose to 13.1% in H2 from 10.5% in H1.
Whilst 2007 was undoubtedly an important year 
in terms of our recovery, we firmly believe that 
further improvement can be achieved and that 
some of the additional margin improvement 
initiatives we have launched in the past few 
months are still coming through the system. 
BOARD CHANGES
We are pleased to announce that we have 
identified a highly capable candidate to take 
the role of Intec's chief executive officer. We 
are finalising contractual terms and expect to 
be able to make an announcement shortly. 
The candidate has extensive knowledge of the 
Telecoms market and a strong track record of 
delivering top-line growth and organisation 
improvement. The candidate is expected to 
join us at the beginning of 2008. 
Additionally, and in line with our previously 
stated aim of further strengthening our Board, 
we were delighted to welcome John Allkins to 
the Company as a non-executive director in 
August 2007. John was previously group 
finance director of MyTravel Group plc, and 
oversaw the company's transition from a loss-
making operator into a leading brand which 
merged with Thomas Cook. John has previous 
telecoms experience with both Equant and BT.
The previous CEO Kevin Adams, and Group 
finance director John Arbuthnott, both 
stepped down from the Board in early 2007, 
and on behalf of the Board, I record my thanks 
for their valuable contribution. During the  INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2007    05
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
period, we also announced the departure  
of our senior non-executive director, Roger 
McDowell, after a five-year tenure. 
COST REDUCTION AND  
MARGIN IMPROVEMENT
Intec's improved financial performance was 
delivered through a sustained effort to increase 
productivity whilst reducing operational costs.  
We have continued working towards our 
objective of improving gross margin through 
ongoing cost management, replacing expensive 
contractors with full-time staff, and the delivery  
of a greater proportion of services from lower-
cost locations. The investment in our professional 
services centre in Bangalore is now beginning  
to deliver, as demonstrated by improving  
project profitability. 
STRUCTURAL CHANGES
As part of the ongoing strategy to simplify  
and improve Intec's global operations we have 
effected a number of changes since the year 
end. As announced on 19 November 2007, we 
sold the Denmark based Intec DCP business  
to VoluBill SA for an initial consideration of  
 1.0 million, plus a percentage of revenues for 
the next two years. Intec has retained certain 
commercial and technical rights relating to this 
business, which recorded a loss of  1.1 million 
on revenues of  3.4 million in 2006, to allow 
for a smooth transition of customers to the new 
owners, with whom we have created a formal 
partnership. In 2007 the business delivered a 
break-even performance and revenues of  3.7 
million. We do not expect the disposal, the sale 
proceeds or subsequent revenues to have a 
material impact on our results in future periods. 
The performance of Intec's managed services 
business and the number of its locations in 
North America has led us to conclude that we 
should consolidate the facility in Mechanicsburg, 
Pennsylvania, incorporating the EUR business 
acquired in 2006, into Intec's three service 
activities in Atlanta, Dallas and San Antonio; 
which is expected to create a one-time cost of 
approximately  1.0 million. The customers from 
the Mechanicsburg facility are being transferred 
and the centre will close by April 2008. This 
reflects management's steps to achieve 
economies of scale in the North American 
operations against a backdrop of a consolidating 
US customer base.
Whilst we are pleased with current progress, 
there is still more that can be delivered and 
throughout 2008 we shall continue our focus  
on operational simplification, cost control and 
organisational improvement.
IMPAIRMENT CHARGES
In our interim statement, in March 2007,  
we announced an impairment charge of  
 8.5 million related to the Intec DCP business. 
In September 2007, we recorded a further 
impairment charge of  4.7 million on the 
goodwill and intangibles relating to the EUR 
Systems acquisition. 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND 
CONTRACT WINS
I am pleased to report a number of key  
contract wins with Tier 1 players in the 
telecommunications industry, and a continued 
focus by the management team towards 
improving revenue quality. 
In particular, we announced key contract wins 
with Alfa in Lebanon, Meteor in Ireland, R Cable 
in Spain, Telefonica O2 in the Czech Republic, 
Digicel Pacific, China Mobile, Qualcomm, 
VimpelCom, Cox Communications, HT Mobile in 
Vietnam, Claro in Brazil, and Polkomtel in Poland. 
All contracts were won against a range of major 
industry competitors. 
1
2
3
4
1 NORTH AMERICA & CANADA -  43.6M
2 ASIA-PACIFIC -  21.1M
3 CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA -  7.3M
4 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA -  52.5M
REGIONAL REVENUE BREAKDOWN
OVERVIEW
This success underlines our technology leadership 
as well as our capability to deliver on a global 
scale. In the past year we have launched a  
new solution for IMS based charging in next-
generation networks; the Intec Mobile Business 
Solution for new and emerging mobile operators; 
and a new version of Intec Convergent Billing 
with important revenue management and 
reporting capabilities. During the course of  
2008 we will continue to invest appropriately  
in development to ensure our products, services 
and distribution preserve their competitive edge.
OUTLOOK
During 2007, we demonstrated material 
contract wins with significant players, bolstering 
our position as a technology leader within the 
highly competitive telecoms solutions market. 
We took steps to improve the operations of  
the business and met our objective of achieving 
better financial performance in 2007. That 
improvement is by no means finished, and 
 the impending appointment of our new chief 
executive officer will ensure further focus on 
operational measures designed to improve 
margins and profitability, whilst continuing  
the focus on converting the current pipeline  
of opportunities into top-line growth. 
We believe that we have the products, systems 
and people to deliver further results and are 
cautiously optimistic about the future.
JOHN HUGHES
Chairman and Interim  
Chief Executive Officer
26 November 2007