 Trading Companies within the Group
Premierbet
The Company's objective is to provide the best level of competitive service with 
the security of being fully regulated by one of the world's oldest stock exchanges.
The Company was launched in 2002 with the express aim to expand the Asian 
Handicap Market worldwide. In March 2006, a new look website was launched 
offering an easy and concise way of playing many sporting markets.
Heathorns
Established in 1890, Heathorns is the world's oldest established bookmakers; 
focused on horse racing, football, cricket, rugby, golf and NFL sports betting. 
The Company is currently developing a new look user friendly website and 
hopes to launch this in April 2006.
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
02
The year to 30 November 2005 was an exceptionally 
busy period for IGH. We made two strategically 
significant acquisitions in Heathorns and Premier Bet; 
signed an important software licensing agreement 
with Orbis Technology, a leading provider of online 
betting software; raised additional capital to fund our 
expansion; and significantly enhanced the Group's 
infrastructure. IGH is operating in a market that is 
seeing significant growth and the Group is now 
well placed to take advantage of the opportunities 
available to us.
Heathorns
Heathorns is the world's oldest established 
bookmaker, focused on horse racing, football, cricket, 
rugby, golf and NFL betting. IGH acquired Heathorns 
in March 2005 for  0.5 million in cash, as well as the 
issue of two million new IGH shares at nine pence 
per share. There was also a deferred amount of 
 75,000 payable over two years.
To enhance our Heathorns' offering, IGH entered into 
a software licensing and development agreement with 
Orbis Technology in April 2005. Under the agreement, 
Orbis has supplied its OpenBet gambling platform 
to Heathorns to drive a new seamless and secure 
gambling offering from Heathorns, and to provide the 
technology for Heathorns' new call centre operation. 
Heathorns' customers will benefit from a complete
 The year to 30 November 2005 was an exceptionally 
busy period for IGH. 
Interactive Gaming Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005  03
Interactive Gaming Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 
gambling solution, enabling bets across multiple 
channels and products from one single account. 
Importantly, all administrative tasks will be carried 
out by a single, fully integrated back-office.
The strategy has been to combine Orbis' market 
leading technology with the Group's significant 
online gaming marketing experience and Heathorns' 
established sports betting brand and client base to 
build a substantial sports book, casino, fixed odds 
games and poker business. I am delighted to say  
that we have made significant progress.
Premier Bet
Premier Bet is a fixed odds bookmaker based in 
London that operates an internet and telephone 
betting operation, specialising in football. IGH acquired 
Premier Bet in August 2005 for a total consideration  
of  1.2 million in shares, loan notes and options. 
As expected, Premier Bet has experienced a slight 
reduction in turnover and profitability over the period 
as we have been migrating Premier Bet's customers 
to the new OpenBet platform. We have also added 
additional risk management procedures and relocated 
the back-office. Our aim is to broaden the revenue 
base, reduce volatility and improve margins and we 
are confident that the longer-term benefits will add 
significant value to IGH. 
Our strategy with Premier Bet has been to leverage 
its brand name to expand into other betting markets 
other than football; to adopt a more risk averse trading 
strategy; and to fundamentally alter the marketing 
focus towards more recreational, lower stake, higher 
margin customers. There are also considerable  
cross-selling opportunities between Premier Bet  
and Heathorns' customers that we will be exploiting. 
Premier Bet is anticipating an exciting summer with 
the World Cup in Germany and will also be looking  
to expand into other European countries. 
Financial review
The accounts include the results of Heathorns 
International Ltd and Premier Bet Ltd from the 
respective acquisition dates. On this basis the reported 
Group turnover for the year to 30 November 2005 was 
 8.1 million (2004: Nil). The turnover for the Group 
would have been  23.4 million if both companies had 
been subsidiaries of the Group for the whole year.
Gross profit for the period of 3% reflects a gross  
win margin of 5% in Heathorns International and  
1% in Premier Bet, which it is forecast to improve  
in future months.
 IGH is operating in a market that is seeing significant 
growth and the Group is now well placed to take 
advantage of the opportunities available to us.  04
Interactive Gaming Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 
The loss before and after taxation for the year to  
30 November 2005 was  864,000 (2004:  388,000), 
which includes  470,000 for head office costs,  
largely related to setting up the Group and  82,000 
goodwill amortisation.
Group cash at bank at 30 November 2005 was  
 1.14 million (2004: 176,000), which reflects 
 2.3 million net proceeds of fund raising during 
the year, less  616,000 cash cost of acquisitions 
and an operational cash outflow of  1.18 million. 
Shareholders funds increased to  2.43 million  
(2004:  305,000) equivalent to 3.5 pence per share. 
Fund raising/share issues
In March 2005, IGH raised approximately  1.52 million 
from a placement of 17.8 million new shares at nine 
pence per share. These funds were partly used for the 
Heathorns acquisition, as well as providing additional 
working capital for the Group's ongoing development. 
As part of the acquisition, an additional two million IGH 
shares were issued to the owners of Heathorns.
In August 2005, IGH issued 5,555,555 new shares to 
the owners of Premier Bet as partial consideration for 
this acquisition, as well as a 3%  500,000 convertible 
unsecured loan note (due 2008). The previous owners 
of Premier Bet also have an option to subscribe for 
up to 5,398,770 IGH shares at 18 pence per share, 
exercisable at any time within five years. 
On 15 November 2005, IGH raised  684,000 net via a 
placing of 17,975,000 ordinary shares at four pence 
per share. The new monies raised are being used for 
development costs and additional working capital. 
The Company is actively engaged in discussions to 
secure additional financing to accelerate the growth 
of the business. 
Board changes
Graham Doyle joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in October 2005. Graham was the Managing 
Director of Premier Bet and had been acting as a 
consultant to IGH since the acquisition of Premier Bet in 
August 2005. His previous experience has mainly been in 
business development and strategic planning at leading 
companies such as Time Warner Inc., Victor Chandler 
International and the IFX Group (formerly Zetters). 
Michael Wellesley-Wesley stepped down in 
December 2005 from his position as a Non-Executive 
Director. Being mainly based in the United States, 
he felt that he was not able to devote sufficient time 
to IGH. I would like to thank Michael for his support 
since the flotation of IGH on AIM in March 2004. 
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
 We will continue to look for opportunities to enhance 
shareholder value through strategic acquisitions 
and organic growth, adding to IGH's portfolio and 
leveraging the brands.  05
Interactive Gaming Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 
The Board intends to appoint a further Non-Executive 
Director in the near future.
Infrastructure
Over the past year, we have made considerable 
efforts to improve our infrastructure. Accordingly, the 
new back-end systems have been implemented based 
on the Orbis Technology platform giving the Group 
vastly improved infrastructure with regards to being 
able to offer a single solution platform to optimise 
systems efficiencies across all betting channels.
Internal procedures and management reporting 
standards have also been further enhanced.
Post year end events
On 3 February 2006 the Company announced it has 
signed an additional software licence with Orbis 
T echnology Ltd for the casino back-office. This is to be 
integrated with the Heathorns and Premier Bet websites 
and further enhance the opportunities for cross marketing 
between casino and sports betting opportunities.
Strategy and outlook
Our strategy at IGH is to build a fully integrated internet, 
telephone betting and gaming offering that maximises 
the significant opportunities to cross-sell, drive revenues 
and improve margins. We have made considerable 
progress in the last year with the acquisition of the  
well-regarded Heathorns and Premier Bet businesses, 
and the successful launch of the new Orbis technology 
platform. These steps already position the Company 
well for the future and we anticipate profitability being 
achieved at both Heathorns and Premier Bet very shortly. 
The FIFA World Cup in 2006 will further provide an 
opportunity for new customer registration and revenue 
growth in the current year. 
As the foundations are now in place we will look to build 
scale to our businesses, not only online but also on the 
ground. Heathorns has already started re-establishing 
itself on the rails at race courses and will also consider 
opportunities to increase our presence on the high street.
We will continue to look for opportunities to enhance 
shareholder value through strategic acquisitions 
and organic growth, adding to IGH's portfolio and 
leveraging the brands. I am confident that 2006 will 
prove to be another year of significant expansion for 
IGH and firmly believe that our proposition offers real 
value for shareholders.
Thomas Taul 
Chairman and Chief Executive
23 March 2006
 I am confident that 2006 will prove to be another year 
of significant expansion for IGH and firmly believe that 
our proposition offers real value for shareholders. 