 I am pleased to report the results of InterBulk 
Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2010, a 
year in which much has been achieved including 
a return to growth and a record year in terms 
of revenue. Our financial results are ahead of 
market expectations and have yet again shown a 
consistency and robustness of performance. The 
actions taken by our team, our flexible business 
model and a strong customer service performance 
have enabled us to achieve growth as market 
conditions have improved.
Liquid Bulk performed strongly throughout the year 
with revenue growth of 23%. Increased activity 
was seen across all regions for this division 
which supported a significant expansion of the 
tankcontainer fleet. We saw a return to growth 
in our Dry Bulk volume in the first half and were 
pleased to see this continue in the second half with 
revenue growth for the full year of 11%, despite a 
significant reduction in storage revenue. 
The Group's operating profit (before exceptional 
items and amortisation) increased by  0.3m 
to  15.1m. Profit margins were affected by a 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT DAVID ROLPH
Financial Highlights    2010  2009
    Adjusted  Adjusted
 Consolidated    (pre exceptional  (pre exceptional
 Income  Exceptional  Intangible  items and  items and
 Statement  Items  Amortisation  amortisation)  amortisation)
  '000   '000   '000   '000   '000
Revenue  273,005  -  -  273,005  232,460
Gross profit  38,931  -  -  38,931  36,818
Operating profit  14,733  -  (381)  15,114  14,836
Profit before tax  1,773  371  (381)  1,783 3,344
Profit after tax  1,901  267 (381)  2,015  2,362
EBITDA     23,471  23,519
Net debt     109,266  118,071
(including equipment finance)
continuation of competitive market conditions, 
and unfavorable currency movements. Pricing has 
remained under pressure during the year, but is now 
showing some signs of improvement as equipment 
utilisation in the industry recovers. 
InterBulk has a great team of people and I would 
like again to take this opportunity to thank each and 
every employee for their contribution to achieving 
these excellent results.
The financial highlights were:
 	 Much improved activity in our markets helped 
drive 17% revenue growth
 	 Operating profit (before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items) improved slightly, but a 
tough competitive environment and unfavorable 
currency movements impacted profit margins
 	 Consistent delivery of EBITDA and total net debt 
(including equipment finance)/EBITDA multiple 
improved from 5.02 to 4.66. Net bank loan debt/
EBITDA multiple of 3.60 at year end
  2    INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010    SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS InterBulk is fully commited to sustainability and is a partner to the chemical industry 
Responsible Care
TM
 charter. During the year we were pleased to announce that we were the first tank container 
operator to achieve the Responsible Care Management System award by the American Chemistry Council 
(ACC).
 	 Higher (non cash) interest costs following the 
new banking arrangements in place since 
1 October 2009, reduced the profit before tax by 
 1.6m to  1.8m (before exceptional items and 
amortisation).
 	 Exceptional items in year were limited to  0.4m 
and related to asset finance hedging.
Our Strategy
InterBulk is a leading provider of intermodal 
logistics solutions to the chemical, polymer, food 
and mineral industries. Our strategy remains 
unchanged and our teams are focused on specific 
action plans to deliver our stated objectives. 
For the Liquid Bulk business our goal is to develop 
further our already well established presence in a 
number of geographic markets with high growth 
prospects such as Russia, the Americas and Asia. 
We have delivered growth above target in these 
areas with revenue increases of well over 30%. 
Our Dry Bulk business strategy is to expand into 
cargo other than polymers and develop business 
outside Europe where hitherto intermodal bulk 
solutions have not been used. These initiatives 
typically involve a longer time period as they require 
conversion of traditional transportation modes. 
Nevertheless, in the year, these two diversification 
initiatives have generated 15% of our Dry Bulk 
revenue. There remain significant opportunities 
to develop this further and we are increasing 
resources accordingly.
The major focus for chemical and polymer 
manufacturing investment is in China and the 
Middle East. China is also a large and rapidly 
growing end user market for these products. New 
or enlarged material flow routes present exciting 
areas for expansion. We are developing our 
business in these areas organically with the support 
of our established global network and may consider, 
where appropriate, establishment of joint ventures 
and/or strategic alliances in these key markets 
to make the best of the opportunities. With a 
strengthened team in place in China, and a pipeline 
of business development prospects on both dry and 
liquid projects, we believe we are in a good position 
to unlock the opportunities for intermodal growth 
within the domestic market. Our effort to expand our 
international business to and from China has led to 
rapid growth in the current year.
Another important element of our strategy is to 
increase the level of added value services. Our 
terminal activities which are mainly in Dry Bulk have 
seen a positive growth. During the year we secured 
a new UK site in which we perform the full on-site 
materials handling and storage requirements for 
one of the largest polymer plants in the UK. This type 
of activity, along with other added value services, 
for example fleet management, continues to be 
pursued.
Funding
During the year we achieved an  8.8m reduction in 
net debt. Last year, we successfully renegotiated our 
Group bank facility with the Bank of Scotland, the 
Group's principal bankers, to ensure that the current 
and expected global economic conditions were 
better reflected in our facility terms. The outcome 
of this process created adequate headroom to 
allow the business to execute effectively its medium 
term growth strategy and focus on the creation of 
shareholder value. 
The net finance expense (before exceptional items) 
recorded in the Income Statement for the Group 
for the year was  13.3m (2009:  11.5m). In 2007, the 
Group entered into a swap arrangement to fix the 
LIBOR rate on 91% of its Bank of Scotland loans 
until 30 September 2010 at a blended average rate 
of 5.1% and therefore we have not benefited from 
subsequent reductions in base rate. For the next two 
years we have fixed our LIBOR rate on our Bank of 
Scotland term debt at  2.05% and 2.385% for Euro 
and GBP , respectively.  We have not fixed any of the 
non-cash mezzanine loan interest which results in 
   INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010    3 CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
CONTINUED
approximately 60% of our Bank of Scotland loan 
interest being fixed in the future period. These 
actions, all other things remaining equal, should 
contribute approximately  1.4m of savings to our 
interest expense next year.
Board Composition
During the year we appointed Thordur Thordarson 
and Halldor Ludvigsson to the Board as 
Non-Executive Directors, following their nomination 
by Atorka Group hf and the resignation of Benedikt 
Olgeirsson and Magnus Jonsson. Benedikt and 
Magnus had been Board members since May 
2007 and we are grateful for their substantial 
contribution. 
Outlook
Globally the chemical industry has recovered 
strongly in the year. Production in the Asia Pacific 
and Middle East regions had already reached new 
levels by early 2009, and since then output there 
has grown further. Europe and the USA, where the 
major part of our business arises were however 
hit much harder by the economic crisis and, while 
levels have recovered since Q1 2009, they remain 
below the historic peak. The future level of activity 
depends on the outturn of regional economic 
growth. The majority of our customers are reporting 
improvements in earnings and higher confidence 
levels. However, uncertainty and volatility remains, 
and is driven by concerns over the fragility of the 
global economy. A recent example of this is the 
volatility in exchange rates since our year end 
which, as well as impacting the mix of our income, 
can impact the purchasing patterns and thus trade 
flows on which we provide our logistics solutions. 
Overlaying the economic growth which is driving 
demand, we will see a continuation of supply side 
growth in the Middle East and China, the locations 
of the majority of global manufacturing investment. 
Thus the opportunities for growth in these regions 
which are reflected in our strategic priorities 
remain, while the trend of increasing export of 
polyolefins to Europe will also continue and this will 
result in further production rationalisation within 
our European customer base.
Logistics margins have been squeezed by the fallout 
of the economic crisis with overcapacity amongst 
service providers leading to intensified competition 
and major customers taking the opportunity to 
retender business. Furthermore, there has been 
cost pressure particularly within deep sea shipping 
rates which have escalated in the last year as ship 
owners mothball capacity. In the coming period 
we foresee a slow recovery in margins. While the 
logistics market is now in much better balance, 
lower margin tendered business will take time to 
work out. There will be new cost pressures coming 
from the consolidation of the rail industry, and an 
expected shortage of trucks and trained (chemical) 
drivers to emerge in Europe following two years of 
layoffs and minimal fleet investment. However we do 
expect to see deep-sea shipping rates alleviating as 
more capacity is freed up.
We believe that our flexible business model 
combined with highly experienced staff, a lean cost 
base and a clear focus and strategy will enable 
us to manage effectively through any short-term 
volatility. Our resilience has been demonstrated over 
the last two years during unprecedented business 
conditions. With the backdrop of improved economic 
conditions, we believe next year should allow us to 
push ahead from this strong base.
David Rolph
Non-Executive Chairman
 
  4    INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010    DRY BULK
11% GROWTH
WE SAW A RETURN TO GROWTH IN 
OUR DRY BULK VOLUME IN THE FIRST 
HALF OF THE YEAR AND WE WERE 
PLEASED TO SEE THIS CONTINUE IN 
THE SECOND.
TERMINAL
NETWORK
DEVELOPMENT
Another important element of our 
strategy is to increase the level of added 
value service. Our terminal activities 
which are mainly in Dry Bulk have seen 
positive growth. During the year we 
secured a new UK site in which we 
perform the full on-site materials handling 
and storage requirements for one of the 
largest polymer plants in the UK.
   INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010    5