 02 InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
I am pleased to report the results of InterBulk Group plc for the year 
ended 30 September 2012. After achieving two years of strong revenue 
growth, the weak external business environment, evident following the
Euro crisis has impacted activity levels in our main market, the European
chemical sector. As a consequence, revenue declined this year by 7% to
 280m. Despite these industry-wide pressures, the impact on profit has 
been offset by the improvement in margins achieved by the strengthened
management team in our Dry Bulk division and lower interest costs
flowing from the deleverage achieved in 2011. These factors ensured the
profit before tax (before exceptional items and amortisation) remained
similar to the previous year at  5.2m.
A recovery was achieved in the second quarter following the adverse
impact of the initial wave of the Euro crisis seen in the first quarter
(calendar quarter to 31 December 2011). We had hoped that this recovery 
might continue into the second half, but renewed Euro concerns drove 
the European economy back into recession with weak business confidence
evident throughout. The Liquid Bulk division's performance was impacted 
by a combination of the weak economy and industry wide overcapacity 
due to the addition of new tankcontainers which were built mainly in
2011. Economic uncertainty has led to global volatility in the supply chains 
and this provides daily operational and fleet balance challenges. Dry Bulk
has also seen reduced activity in the European chemical sector but has 
compensated for the margin impact with growth in the food sector plus 
intermediate and on-site storage solutions. This mix is consistent with our
strategy to diversify the business.
In early October 2012, we announced the successful completion of 
the refinancing programme. The new debt package in place since the
beginning of the new financial year provides a sound platform for the next
four years and reduces the Group's cost of debt by approximately  1.5m
per year.  We believe the success of this programme and the support of the
bank is testimony to the substantial deleveraging achieved in recent years,
the robustness of our business model and the strength of our market
position.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement 
 '000
Exceptional 
Items 
 '000
Intangible 
Amortisation 
 '000
2012
Adjusted
(pre exceptional
items and
amortisation) 
 '000
2011 
Adjusted 
(pre exceptional  
items and 
amortisation) 
 '000
Revenue 280,410 - - 280,410 300,422
Gross profit 38,920 - - 38,920 41,323
Operating profit 12,997 - (339) 13,336 15,533
Profit before tax 4,888 - (339) 5,227 5,301
Profit after tax 4,334 - (339) 4,673 3,921
EBITDA 21,334 21,334 23,824
Net debt (including equipment finance) 72,528 83,872
EPS (before exceptional items and amortisation)  1.00 pence 1.12 pence
Chairman's Statement
David Rolph InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2012    03
InterBulk has a great team of people and I would like again to take this
opportunity to thank each and every employee for their contribution in 
what has been a challenging period. 
Our Strategy
InterBulk's mission to be a leading provider of intermodal logistics
solutions to the chemical, polymer, food and mineral industries remains 
unchanged. This is realised through a well-established network and
a partnership approach with our customers in Europe, Asia and the
Americas. InterBulk is recognised for its excellent service and cost
effective inventive solutions whilst achieving high standards of safety and 
environmental protection.
We are building a high performance global team to reinforce this base and
to:
  expand our operations in the growth regions of China, the Middle 
East and Russia;
  increase our inter-regional and export Liquid Bulk activity in the
Americas and South East Asia;
  establish solutions for deep sea Dry Bulk and develop our terminal
network;
  grow our business in food and minerals;
  promote the sustainability of intermodal transport and lead the
development of the market;
  create strategic alliances with logistics service providers in key
markets; and
  enhance our leading IT platform to maximise operational efficiency.
China is the largest and fastest growing chemical producing and
consuming country in the world. We achieved a number of milestones
in China during the year and our Sinotrans Alliance is now established
with a strong platform to service the development of both domestic and 
international business from China. InterBulk has three dedicated offices
complemented by the extensive Sinotrans network of offices, warehouses 
and logistics assets.  
The use of tankcontainers for transporting liquid chemicals has strong 
underlying growth because of the superior benefits they bring and the
growing quantities of chemicals on the move. Our Liquid Bulk business is
well established globally and we have progressively enlarged the size of our 
fleet to grow with the market.
We are pursuing growth opportunities in Dry Bulk by extending our
intermodal bulk solutions beyond our core European polymers business 
to new markets and new products. These solutions go well beyond simple
door to door transportation of products and embrace storage, on-site
logistics and logistics management. This year our food business has
seen growth of 8%, which helped to compensate for reduced activity 
in the European polymers market. Overall 32% of Dry Bulk revenue was
from outside our core European polymers transportation only business
compared with 28% in the prior year.
INTRODUCTION
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
  Net debt reduced by  11.3m (14%); a third consecutive year of significant deleverage. New four year debt package in place from 
the beginning of October 2012 which provides further significant interest savings for the new financial year.
  Weak external business environment resulting from the Euro crisis, especially in the European chemical sector, led to a revenue 
reduction of 7% to  280m.
  Operating profit (before intangible amortisation) of  13.3m, Dry Bulk performance improvement continued with Liquid Bulk 
being behind prior periods. The weakness of the Euro was an additional factor.
  Profit before tax (before intangible amortisation and exceptional items) of  5.2m was similar to 2011 and was supported by the 
reduction in net interest expense from the full year impact of reduced debt levels.
  EPS of 1.00 pence (before exceptional items and amortisation) reduced from 1.12 pence due to the impact of a full year of the 
enlarged share capital following the June 2011 share placing. 04 InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
Funding
During the year we achieved a  11.3m (14%) reduction in net debt which 
continues the deleveraging of the last three years. The Group had net debt 
(defined as bank loans, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases less 
cash and cash equivalents) at 30 September 2012 of  72.5m comprising:
30 September
2012
 '000
30 September
 2011
 '000
Bank of Scotland loans 70,219 72,844
Other bank loans 356 1,069
Asset finance lease creditor 18,554 22,782
Less: Cash (16,601) (12,823)
72,528 83,872
Subsequent to the year end on 5 October 2012, we completed a successful 
refinancing of the Group's debt with a new four year debt package. The 
deleverage achieved in the last three years helped us secure a significant 
improvement compared with the Group's previous facility with the 
removal of  21m of expensive mezzanine debt. Overall, we expect there 
to be an annual interest saving of around  1.5m, fully realised in the year 
ending 30 September 2013.
Due to the refinancing being completed after the year end, all of the Bank 
of Scotland loans of  70.2m are classified within short-term financial 
liabilities as the previous facility expired on the 30 June 2013. Following 
the refinancing, the short-term element is now  1.4m.
Net finance expense (before exceptional items) recorded in the Group's 
Income Statement for the year fell to  8.1m; a reduction of  2.1m from 
the prior year. This is a result of the  17.4m repayment of an element of 
the expensive mezzanine debt in June 2011 with the full year benefit of 
this being realised in the year to 30 September 2012. As noted above, this 
saving will be further enhanced in the year ending 30 September 2013 as a 
result of the recent refinancing exercise.
Board Composition
After the year end, Herve Montjotin resigned as a non-executive director 
following his promotion to CEO of Groupe Norbert Dentressangle SA. 
Jerome Burtin has replaced Herve as the nominated non-executive 
representative of Groupe Norbert Dentressangle SA. Herve had been on 
the InterBulk board for over five years during which he made a substantial 
contribution to the Group's development. We thank him and wish him 
well. These changes were effective from 4 December 2012. 
Outlook
The chemical industry remains on a path of long term growth due to the 
extraordinary range of benefits it brings to consumers. In the short term, 
hopes of economic recovery in Europe have suffered new setbacks, and 
uncertainty remains for the period ahead. Elsewhere growth will continue 
in many emerging markets.  
The Dry Bulk business has delivered a strong set of results which has 
placed the business on a good footing for the new financial year. Growth 
is targeted from the realisation of projects principally in new products and 
geographies.  We aim to achieve a modest further profit improvement 
in the next financial year consolidating the performance of the year just 
reported.  
In Liquid Bulk, we believe that utilisation and margins will remain under 
pressure in the coming year. In the medium term, global chemical sector 
growth should support improving utilisation as the current industry 
wide over-capacity is absorbed. Our focus will be on improving margin 
performance through careful lane selection, a number of procurement 
initiatives and operational efficiency.  
We begin the new financial year with much improved bank debt financing 
and a solid market position. We believe that our flexible variable cost 
business model combined with highly experienced staff, a lean cost 
base and a focused strategy creates a good basis from which to manage 
effectively through short-term volatility.
The strategic growth opportunities remain in place be they geographical, 
for example in China, enhanced by the Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance, or in 
sectors such as food where we believe our intermodal solutions can bring 
benefits. We expect to see progress on these initiatives in the current 
financial year.  
David Rolph  
Non-Executive Chairman Liquid Bulk performance behind prior 
period due to tough trading conditions 
and short term industry over capacity.
Excellent customer retention and 
strengthening of our network in the 
year.
Liquid Bulk
 05
INTRODUCTION