   
IOFINA PLC    
page | 4 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
The period under review proved to be a year of expansion and improvement for Iofina with the 
successful installation and start-up of two plants based on the Group's Wellhead Extraction 
Technology  (WET  ) with IOsorb , followed by the completion of construction on two additional 
plants in Q1 2014. The completed IO#2, IO#3, IO#4 and IO#5 plants are located in Oklahoma and are 
in addition to the IO#1 plant located in Texas which has been in production since August of 2012. The 
successful, concurrent construction of four complex plants on an aggressive construction schedule 
demonstrates our ability to upscale production capacity. With these additional plants, and continued 
optimisation of production processes and design, current raw iodine production rates extend beyond 
the 2013 organic requirements for raw iodine at Iofina Chemical, enabling outside sales of raw iodine 
in 2014. 
Iofina continues to cooperate with the Oil and Gas Operators (Operators ) to maximize brine supply 
to each plant. Such efforts have led to an increase in brine volume at IO#1 and resulted in significant 
improvement in iodine production at the plant. Factors beyond the Group's control resulted in 
inconsistent brine supply at the IO#2 and IO#3 plants in early 2014. An uncommonly cold winter, with 
temperatures well below average, proved to be an issue for Operators as they experienced power 
outages and shut-in production wells. The use of produced brine water by the Operator in the 
hydraulic fracturing of newly drilled wells also resulted in inconsistent brine supply at IO#3 in early 
2014 which is expected to impact brine supply at IO#3, IO#4, IO#5 and IO#6 in the near term. We are 
working with the Operator to re-route brine water to affected plants in order to obtain consistent 
brine throughput. We also anticipate the continued drilling activity in the area to result in an increase 
in the supply of iodine-rich brine to existing and planned IOsorb  plants in the area.  This is similar to 
what was experienced at IO#2 upon completion of the Operator's drilling program in 2013. This drilling 
program confirms the operator's intention to maintain and grow the production area for years to 
come.  The additional plants located in Oklahoma also benefit from warmer brine supplied via direct 
pipelines from well sites, resulting in higher recovery efficiencies using Iofina's patented WET  
IOsorb  Technology. 
Iodine and Iodine Derivatives 
Iofina produced a record 171 metric tonnes (MT ) of crystallised iodine in the year 2013. Although 
delays in the completion of IO#3-IO#6 resulted in the Group falling short of expected iodine production 
for the year, we have learned several vital lessons applicable to the construction and operation of our 
plants. With the winter weather breaking, recent production from IO#1 and IO#2 has returned to 
expected levels. The addition of IO#4-IO#6 is expected, at this time, to result in production of circa 
400 metric tonnes of crystallized iodine in 2014. This rate of production will satisfy requirements at 
Iofina Chemical and set the stage for sales of raw iodine to both new and existing customers.  
Improved plant and process design resulted in higher recovery efficiencies and further cost reductions. 
IO#3-IO#6 include improved automation designs that reduce the largest cost components at each 
plant, specifically chemicals and labour. Average production cost per kg for the year was less than $30. 
We expect to see significant improvements in production costs with the addition of higher volume 
plants comparable to IO#2, which produce at a more favourable cost in the low $20 per kilogram 
range. The recent addition of IO#4 and IO#5, and the addition of IO#6 in Q2 2014, will significantly    
IOFINA PLC    
page | 5 
 
increase production over current levels and is expected to decrease average production costs in the 
year 2014 and onward, growing shareholder value. 
The Group is pleased with progress towards establishing production at higher iodine concentration 
and lower brine volume sites. A collaborative effort between the Group's geology and design teams 
has resulted in a turnkey plant option to produce iodine at such sites. The plants incorporate a process 
comparable to Iofina's WET  IOsorb  process and will deliver iodine intermediately that will then be 
processed at the nearby larger plants. The addition of these low cost units can add additional 
production capacity, flexibility and diversity to the Group's iodine production.  
In 2013, Iofina Chemical (IC ) achieved record sales levels. This was achieved even as worldwide 
iodine prices declined from near $60/kg at the beginning of 2013 to approximately $45/kg by year 
end. The revenue and profit margins at IC in 2013 were adversely affected by the lower price of iodine. 
IC strengthened its position in the iodine chemical derivatives markets with strong product offerings. 
A record volume increase of almost 10% year over year enabled IC to continue its growth trend, which 
is expected to continue in 2014. The use of Iofina Resources' raw iodine commenced this year allowing 
the Group to become a member of a small group of vertically integrated iodine producers.  Expansion 
of export sales continued as we strengthened our cooperation with existing customers and worked to 
develop new customer relationships. Research and Development (R&D ) efforts are focused on 
developing new, high-value products. 
IC continues to invest in the Covington, Kentucky facility to improve infrastructure, produce new 
iodine derivatives, and improve our current process efficiencies and safeguards. As a Chemsteward's  
certified facility, we strive for continual improvement and focus on meeting our customers' needs 
while doing so in a safe and environmentally conscious manner. 
The increased production of iodine from our mid-stream business in 2014, coupled with the continuing 
introduction of new products, gives us confidence in another strong year for IC. 
Atlantis Water Project 
We made significant progress toward commercialisation of Iofina's fresh water resource in the state 
of Montana in 2013. The Group secured sites for the outtake water depot and obtained additional 
letters of intent for water sales and use in Montana. The Department of Natural Resources and 
Conservation (DNRC ) determined that the requested amount of water is both physically and legally 
available and that there would be no adverse effect at the point of diversion due to the engineering 
and design consideration outlined in the engineering study. Iofina provided the requested revisions to 
the application in March of 2014. On 18 April 2014 the Group was notified that the preliminary 
determination of DNRC was to deny the application for water rights. The Group is entitled to a hearing 
with the State to register its disagreement with the preliminary decision of the DNRC. In the hearing, 
the Board plans to defend the Group's application and further explain the rationale behind the 
application and why the Group believes it meets regulatory requirements. The hearing is anticipated 
to occur in May or June 2014. If approved, the Group will continue to pursue the construction and 
operation of the water depot in Montana, which would require financing. The Board believes the 
approved permit could add substantial shareholder value in the future. If our permit is ultimately 
denied, our Montana strategy and assets will need to be reassessed.     
IOFINA PLC    
page | 6 
 
Financing 
Iofina issued a two year US$15 million convertible note to Stena Investment S. .r.l in May 2013. The 
Bond was amended in March 2014 to extend the redemption date by two years to 15 May 2017 and 
the coupon was reduced to 6.00 per cent per annum from 6.5 per cent. The amended terms allow for 
conversion at any time upon 28 days' notice to Iofina at a conversion price of $1.67. The proceeds 
from the issue were used to accelerate the rollout of IOsorb  plants to increase the rate of production 
growth. The Group has 127,284,398 ordinary shares in issue. The Group had a market capitalisation 
of  126.01 million on 31 December 2013. 
Iodine Market 
Market demand for iodine continued to grow in 2013 as anticipated by the Board and we expect 
demand to continue to grow throughout 2014. However, increased supply created downward 
pressure on the price of iodine. Lower iodine prices resulted in producers with high production costs 
to reduce production, setting the stage for establishment of a near term raw iodine price floor. The 
production reductions by large iodine producers have resulted in a stabilised price in the low $40 
range, in Q1-14, down from circa $60/kg in Q1-13. The Board expects growing demand, particularly in 
LCD screens, semiconductor manufacturing, X-ray contrast media, and pharmaceuticals and biocides 
to result in stabilized prices in 2014. 
Safety and Environmental Sustainability 
As a corporate policy, Iofina promotes health, safety, and environmental sustainability in its working 
practices and seeks to minimise, mitigate, or remedy any harmful effects from the Group's operations 
on personnel and the environment at each of its operational sites. The successful entry into the iodine 
recycling business to manage waste streams from chemical, nylon, electronics, and pharmaceuticals 
manufacturing as mentioned earlier is a good example of our policy in practise. We currently process 
all the iodine from these sources at our Chemical plant in Kentucky. 
Outlook 
2013 was a breakthrough year for the Group, and the Board believes progress and lessons learnt in 
the year will further advance Iofina's status as a strong competitor in the iodine and iodine derivatives 
industries. The Group achieved full vertical integration production rates in the year, eliminating the 
future need to purchase raw iodine on the open market for the manufacturing of iodine derivatives. 
Iofina Chemical continues to scale output in Q1 2014, and is working to expand its geographical 
footprint. The addition of IO#2 and IO#3 in 2013, along with the additional production from IO#4 and 
IO#5 and shortly from IO#6, provides diversification to the Group's iodine production and presents 
further growth opportunities in iodine derivative products. The Group envisages an economical 
contribution to production through the implementation of proprietary mini WET  IOsorb  technology 
plants at the point operations stabilize in 2014. Recent changes in Board composition are expected to 
result in the strengthening of our governance, strategy and execution. The Board expects significant 
improvements to the operation, design, and construction of WET  IOsorb  plants in the year 2014, 
positioning the Group for record production and improving financial results.    
IOFINA PLC    
page | 7 
 
 
Lance Baller 
Non-Executive Chairman 
Iofina plc 
24 April 2014 
 