 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report the full year results for the year ended 30 April 2007. On behalf of the Board, I would
like to thank our existing shareholders for their continued support and welcome new shareholders that have
invested in the Company over the past year.
Review
ITM has made excellent progress in building solid financial and technical foundations for the
commercialisation of its exciting and revolutionary technology. Considerable efforts have been made over
the last year to move towards the commercial realisation of ITM's technology with the objective of
maximising income potential by controlling key processes for the use of hydrogen in sustainable energy
systems.
The Company believes there are many applications for hydrogen. These include zero carbon housing, hydrogen
fuels for the automotive industry, back-up power systems and energy storage using hydrogen for renewable
energy systems. Relationships with potential commercial partners are being developed and I believe that we
are in a good position to exploit market opportunities.
During the year in review, terms were agreed on a new manufacturing facility in Sheffield. The design work for
the new Sheffield site is now nearing completion and preparation work has begun for the installation of the
manufacturing equipment. This plant will have an annual electrolyser production capability of 10 Megawatts
which will be one of the largest electrolyser production capabilities in the world. The Group is now designing
the pre-production prototype units which are anticipated to be produced next year. This is an enormous
undertaking for a relatively small company and brings our science, engineering and production skills together
for the first time. The dedication and commitment to this project by our staff is humbling and no level of
praise is high enough. So far this programme is on time and budget.
ITM successfully completed all the milestones set out for the year on schedule. In summary, the Company
announced that it had successfully built and operated a completely platinum free 5 kW solid polymer
electrolyser stack. The complete elimination of platinum reduces our stack cost per kilowatt below the
previously stated $164/kW (which included Platinum on one side of the membrane). The Group also
operated a self pressuring electrolyser at 20 bar. Since the period end, the pressure test target of 75 bar (or
1,125lb/sq inch), which was originally set for December 2007 was achieved. This programme was accelerated
to provide important early technical information for the design of the 2008 factory production units which
are anticipated to combine both pressure and power capabilities in a single unit.
The Group successfully made and operated a portable 2 liquid fuel cell, which includes a fuel cassette able to
be removed without loss of power; a so-called  hot-swappable' function. This device also contains all the
balance of plant and output electronics. This device has been used in commercial presentations, and we are
continuing discussions with military organisations where the unique attributes of the 2-liquid system,
independence of the environment, and neutral buoyancy for marine applications are of special interest.
The progress made in the Oxy-hydrogen fuel cell systems where performance improvements have allowed
ITM to reach its cost reduction targets, suggests that the best use of limited company resources is to
develop a working prototype of a fuel cell using the $500/kW technology achieved in June 2007 (in
accordance with the production assumptions set out on 18 October 2006). This cost is approximately 15%
of the present price of solid polymer fuel cells, and has a significant commercial value if it can be brought
into production. In order to maximise benefit to the Company, it has been decided to build a 100W stack
demonstrating this technology to advance product development and allow real life performance and
longevity testing of the stack and its balance of plant to be undertaken prior to entering into commercial
discussions. The Company has therefore decided to substitute the production of a 100W Oxy-hydrogen fuel
cell stack for the existing 20W December 2007 milestone of a 2-liquid fuel cell.
The achievement of these milestones has underpinned the Company's ability to seek commercial
collaborations as they begin to demonstrate ITM's electrolyser and fuel cell equipment in real world
environments. These include collaboration with ABRO, a trading fund of the Ministry of Defence, to operate
diesel engines using a small addition of hydrogen from an on-board ITM electrolyser to the existing diesel fuel
and collaboration with Hydrogen Engine Center Inc to develop products for a non polluting grid independent
energy system which can undergo field trial testing.
During the year, ITM joined the US Fuel Cell Council, an organisation dedicated to commercialisation of fuel
cells in the United States. The Company also joined the US National Hydrogen Association and UK Hydrogen
Association.
3 Recent developments
Significant progress has been made in the development of a 'home refuelling' system using an electrolyser to
convert renewable or off peak electricity into hydrogen. This device depends upon a 10kW electrolyser
operating at pressures of 75 bar. The Company announced in June 2007 that a prototype electrolyser
operated at 10kW. In conjunction with the University of Hertfordshire, ITM has modified a petrol engine
Ford Focus to operate using pure hydrogen able to be supplied by an ITM electrolyser before switching to
petrol. An ITM self pressuring electrolyser has now successfully fuelled this vehicle. The vehicle has exceeded
25 miles on a single charge of hydrogen both when tested on a rolling road, and during testing on public
highways. Drivability in public road conditions when using hydrogen has proved to be excellent.
ITM believes the hydrogen infrastructure has already been built because a low cost electrolyser can produce
hydrogen wherever water and electricity are available. Furthermore, it is possible to inexpensively convert
most petrol engines to run on hydrogen. We believe these developments bring low cost non-polluting
transportation forward by many years.
As a separate programme, ITM has also installed a much smaller electrolyser on-board a 3 litre diesel Range
Rover. The trace amounts of hydrogen produced are fed to the engine. This equipment has demonstrated that
an ITM electrolyser can operate successfully in the demanding environment of a moving vehicle, and direct
observations of reproducible reductions in the principal emissions have been recorded while the electrolyser
was active. However, the full commercial or military implications of the results cannot be judged in advance
of a research programme such as that agreed with ABRO.
ITM has also been working on two long-term research programmes that rely on the same basic understanding
of chemistry to our electrolysis and fuel cell work. The organic solar photovoltaic research programme
continues to suggest encouraging possible solutions to the development of much lower cost photovoltaic
systems by eliminating silicon. Secondly, we have begun to test ways of combining gaseous carbon dioxide
with electrolytic hydrogen to create liquid fuels. Our initial small scale laboratory tests have been
encouraging and we have successfully achieved gas to liquid production in an electrochemical cell based on
our membrane technology. These are very early days and much further work will be needed to confirm the
commercial value of such a development.
Financials
The loss for the year increased from  1.9 million to  2.7 million, in line with the Group's budget. Capital
expenditure in the year under review was  0.49 million most of which went to provide additional laboratory
and test equipment and further expansion to our laboratories in Sheffield. We further strengthened the
scientific and technical team at our laboratories as well as strengthening our management and corporate
team at our head office in Cambridge. Average headcount for the year grew from 25 to 37 people.
At the year end, the Group held cash at the bank and on deposits of  31.8 million, following the successful
raising of  29.4 million funds through a Placing of ordinary shares with institutional investors in May 2006.
The purpose of the secondary fund raise was to obtain the financial resources necessary to engineer, develop
and commercialise ITM's first products. The Company earned  1.58 million in interest during the year from
the investment of the funds and continues to benefit from increasing deposit rates. The Group expects to
spend approximately  1 million fitting out its new production facility.
ITM maintained tight control over cash expenditures during the year in review and we will continue to
monitor budgets carefully. Our costs will gradually increase over the next year to support accelerated
development and engineering activity. Whilst staff costs remain the biggest single cost element, activity
with third parties will continue to increase as the Group works on development of complete product
solutions in line with our published milestones. Expenditure on patents and IP protection also continues to
be an important part of the cost base.
The Board is not recommending payment of a dividend in accordance with the dividend policy stated at the
time of the IPO.
Board and staff
In my interim statement in January 2007, I stated that I would not be seeking re-election to the Board of ITM
in September. We have now concluded a succession planning process and we are close to finalising an
appointment.
I hope to be in a position to announce my successor at the AGM in September with a view to him taking
office in January 2008. The Board has requested that I remain in office until that time in order to facilitate a
4 smooth transition. Consequently, l will be standing for re-election as Chairman for an interim basis until the
end of December 2007.
We are continuing to recruit and strengthen our capabilities throughout the Company. We have hired a
production manager for our new factory and are currently recruiting additional scientists, production
technicians and members for our commercial team.
I would like to welcome new members of staff to ITM and thank all our staff for their tremendous dedication
and commitment during the year.
Outlook
Before the end of the calendar year the Company plans to publicly demonstrate both the Bi-fuel Ford Focus
and refuelling system using electrolyser prototypes that will closely resemble the initial systems to be
manufactured. This will be a very exciting and important step forward because ITM's technology will
become visible and the benefits of our advances will become more easily understood.
We will continue to expand our commercial relationships over the coming months and prepare the Group for
first orders and sales.
Stephen Massey
Chairman
5