 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report the first set of annual results for the year ended 30 April 2005 since ITM's admission to
AIM in June 2004. On behalf of the Board, I thank the pre-IPO shareholders for their support and welcome the
new shareholders resulting from the placing and ITM's public listing.
World Energy Overview
It is increasingly becoming accepted that the current resilient price of oil is a reflection of an approaching
historic peak in global oil production that is unable to meet the rapidly increasing demand for energy from
China and India. The work of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil has drawn attention to the serious
energy crisis that could occur unless new reliable energy sources are developed.
In February the Kyoto Treaty became legally binding. Some 141 countries, accounting for 55% of greenhouse
gas emissions, have ratified the treaty, which pledges to cut these emissions by 5.2% by 2012.
In order to sustain economic growth the world needs to develop new energy sources that can supplement our
current energy system and do not produce harmful emissions. This is driving further interest into expanding
nuclear power production and renewable energy sources.
The conversion of renewable low value intermittent energy into high value reliable energy is at the heart of
ITM's strategy and can be achieved by the development of low cost and durable electrolysers. The electrolyser
has the potential to transform the economics of renewable energy.
Results
When reporting the interim results for the half year we stated that we were operating well within budget, and
this has continued to be the case in the second half. The operating loss for the year was  1.61 million, and the
loss before tax was  1.26 million. Cash balances including interest receivable totals  8 million, which is a
strong financial position from which to continue our technical development programmes. The policy of
maintaining tight control over cash expenditure will continue ensuring that resources available for ITM's
technical programmes are maximised.
In line with prospectus statements the directors are not recommending payment of a dividend.
Review
ITM's research and development activities, which provide the platform for eventual revenues from licensees,
have been expanded during the year. The technical team has been increased significantly and laboratory R&D
facilities enhanced following the move in November to new premises in Sheffield. ITM's intellectual property
in fuel cell and electrolyser technology, affordable materials and efficient production processes mean that the
company is well placed to benefit from the greatly increased worldwide interest in a sustainable non-polluting
hydrogen economy.
Significant technical developments have been achieved in the year under review:
Independent costings of the Mk III electrolyser showed significant cost reduction compared with Mk II, plus a
doubling of power input. The Generics Group, an independent scientific consultancy, has estimated that in
mass production it would be possible to achieve a cost level below $300 per kW. This represented an
important step forward in ITM's development plan. Electrolysers will play a pivotal role in maximising the
potential of transient renewable power generation systems such as a wind turbine.
ITM has formulated and produced a range of hydrophilic alkaline solid polymer electrolyte materials, which
have now been operated in fuel cell mode. Alkaline electrochemistry opens the route to new lower cost
catalysts, which promise further cost reduction potential.
With the support of the Department of Trade and Industry, the company successfully tested fuel cells that
operate using liquid (specifically alcohol) fuels introduced directly into the cell. This has significance for
small portable electronic devices and opens a large field of potential licensees not included in our original
revenue model.
In April, the BOC Foundation, an independent organisation, established in 1990 by the BOC Group plc,
awarded ITM a grant to further develop low cost electrolysers. As a part of the agreement, a high-level
expert research committee was formed to consider electrolyser development. This committee will be hosted
by ITM and will include participants from the BOC Foundation, the BOC Group plc and Professor Marcus
Newborough (Scottish Power:- Royal Academy of Engineering, Professor in Energy & Environmental
Engineering at Heriot Watt University). The committee reviews areas of mutual interest arising from ITM's
3 research into the manufacture and use of low cost electrolysers for hydrogen production from renewable
resources. ITM will own all intellectual property (IP rights) to any new discoveries made during the research
carried out under the agreement.
ITM announced in March 2005 that it had successfully demonstrated an alkaline solid polymer fuel cell. ITM's
unique alkaline membrane technology has been demonstrated operating using two liquids: a liquid fuel and a
liquid oxidant. The device was built to demonstrate the application of ITM's technology to a micro-fuel cell, a
size that could be compatible with use, for example, in a hand held telecommunication or other portable
electronic devices. It has the potential to be operated at high energy density at room temperature using a
safe fuel/oxidant combination: sodium boro-hydride (non-flammable, as it is used as a solution in water)
and hydrogen peroxide (a similar dilution to an antiseptic that can be bought at a high street chemist).
Using two liquids enables the device to operate at high altitudes, such as in an aircraft; in polluted
environments (including the presence of carbon monoxide in atmospheric air), as well as underwater.
The demonstration device was an additional strong indication of the diversity and commercial potential of
ITM's core materials and processes and further broadens the potential addressable markets for future
licensing deals.
Intellectual Property
In August 2004, the company filed three UK provisional patent applications covering:
. Photoelectric devices
. Novel materials for use in fuel cells and electrolysers
. Key technological elements important to the application of ITM's proprietary 'in-situ' manufacturing
process for membrane electrode assembly ('MEAs') and cell stacks.
Additionally, ITM developed and filed a UK patent on a new early warning system, which indicates when the
liquid fuelled fuel cell, demonstrated in March 2005, is in need of refuelling. The system consists of a colour
indicator that allows the colour of the fuel (or the oxidant) to change as the material is exhausted, giving an
early warning of the need to re-charge the device. Previously, a rapid drop in performance was the only means
of detecting that the fuel needed re-charging. UK patent applications have been made to include: the early
warning refuelling colour indicator and a sealed refuelling cassette designed specifically to enable the rapid
and convenient refuelling of fuel cells operating using one (or two) liquids. It is central to ITM's approach
that the technology it develops should be actually useable, and it must therefore be robust and easy to
refuel using non-hazardous materials. This new system offers a route to a rapid, safe and convenient
refuelling process without which such fuel cells will not become commercially successful.
In total the granted or pending patent portfolio has grown and now consists of 12 separate applications, a
significant increase during the year.
Board, Management and Staff
At the end of June 2004, I was pleased to welcome The Right Hon. Lord Walker to the Board as a non-
executive director of the company. Lord Walker was a member of all Conservative Cabinets between 1970
and 1990, holding several posts including Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (including Energy),
Secretary of State for the Environment and Secretary of State for Energy. He is Chairman of Allianz Cornhill
Insurance plc and a non-executive Director of The London International Financial Futures and Options
Exchange. After retiring from the Cabinet, Lord Walker became Chairman of international investment bank,
Kleinwort Benson Group plc and is now Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Lord Walker was not the only new arrival at ITM during the year; we further strengthened our team by
recruiting five experienced scientists, top-level graduates and postgraduates.
John Wreford, who is currently Finance Director, has indicated that he will retire from the Board at the end of
the year to pursue other interests. We will make an appropriate announcement as soon as we have found a
replacement.
I would like to thank John for his significant contribution to the company which he jointly founded in 2000
and wish him every success in the future.
Gervas Steele has retired as a non-executive director with effect from 24 August 2005. We are very grateful
to Gervas for the major contribution he has made to the development of ITM, and on behalf of the Board I
would like to wish him well in the future.
4 I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new recruits to ITM and to thank all staff for their hard
work and commitment during the year.
Outlook
We look to remain on track to achieve further key milestones over the next 12 months, including a 250 watt
electrolyser and a 250 watt rigid fuel cell. We will also be announcing results on longevity testing on both fuel
cells and electrolysers over the next year. ITM believes that the development of its low cost durable modular
electrolysers will be the key contributor to realising the hydrogen economy. If the test results are successful,
ITM's innovations will open the door to the replacement of fossil fuels. However, I would like to emphasize
that we are currently at an important stage of development and substantial laboratory work still needs to be
concluded successfully before any product can be brought to market. This will enable us to generate the
additional IP necessary to protect our core technology and negotiate favourable terms for the company.
I believe that ITM is in a good position to meet its ongoing objectives and look forward to updating
shareholders on progress at the Annual General Meeting in September.
Stephen Massey
Chairman
5