 4
Chairman's Review
The Past Financial Year
I am pleased to report that the recovery of the Group continued
in the second half of the year with all Divisions trading
profitably. This has resulted in a profit before tax of  1,771,000
for the full year compared to  785,000 in the previous year. 
The improvement was sales led with Group turnover increasing
11% to  64.6 million against  58.0 million last year. 
The improvement in profitability took place against the
background of significant increases in the cost of crude oil,
naturalgas and wholesale electricity. In my Interim Statement of
November 2004 I indicated that the unprecedented rise in the
cost of natural gas would inevitably dampen the Group's
profitability in the second half, particularly that of James
Cropper Speciality Papers. This statement was based upon
forward market projections at the time, suggesting that the cost
in the second half of the current financial year would be
substantially higher than that in the first half. Although the cost
of natural gas continued to rise during the second half that
projection proved to be overly cautious. However, it should be
noted that the cost of energy consumption increased over the
previous year by  587,000 to  2,696,000, up 28%. The cost of
naturalgas is projected to rise further during the course of
2005. 
The charge against profit in the year relating to the combined
past service pension deficits of the Group's two final salary
schemes was  672,000. This reflects the full year charge based
upon the accounting standard SSAP 24. The charge in the
previous period was  336,000. 
Although US$ sales grew in all Divisions over the year,
profitability from both Technical Fibre Products (TFP ) and
James Cropper Converting continue to be adversely affected by
the weak US$. 
Since 1989 the Group has held a 35% holding in Pacofa, a
converting company located in northern France. Over recent
years the performance of this business has been disappointing
and, therefore the Directors have decided to take the prudent
step of writing down the cost of the investment by  200,000 to
reflect more closely its current recoverable value.  
Dividends
In view of the Group's improved performance in the past
financial year, the Board is proposing a final dividend payment
of 6.3p, making the total dividend for the full year 8.2p
compared to 7.8p in 2004, an overall increase of 5.1%.  
Paper Division
The Division's operating profit increased from  415,000 to
 1,663,000 over the year.
Sales by James Cropper Speciality Papers increased by 11%
over the year. Activity in the packaging, business and industrial
paper sectors was up, reflecting growth in the UK, the USA and
China. 
The price of pulp fluctuated during the course of the year.
Northern Softwood Bleached Kraft (NSBK ) pulp, the market
benchmark, opened the year at US$640 per tonne rose to
US$680 by the end of the first quarter. Then over the second
quarter it fell to US$590, before resuming an upward trend in
the second half year to end at US$645. 
A similar pattern emerged for C = priced hardwoods.
The weakness of the US$ mitigated the impact of
these increases. The C = was relatively stable against
 Sterling throughout the year. 
The Paper Mill Shop business continued to grow
during the year with seven new outlets opening
across the UK taking the total number of stores to
eighteen. In order to manage the expansion of this
business, warehousing and distribution activities
were relocated to a larger facility.
Converting Division
Converting Division's turnover grew by 1%, with
volume up 15%. However operating profit declined
from  394,000 to  302,000.  The Division continued
to maintain its position as the leading UK
manufacturer of display board. The demand for mount
board continues to be positive but the weakness of
the US$ eroded margins on sales into the USA.  The
development of digital imaging products progressed
during the year leading to the launch of a full range of
papers and boards in the second half. This new range
is marketed to the trade in parallel to the general
public, the latter through a dedicated website,
www.papermilldirect.com. The development and
launch costsrelating to the digital imaging range
affected overall profitability of the Division.
Technical Fibre Products
Operating profit for the year was  457,000 against
 474,000 with turnover up 3% on the previous year.
At the current exchange rate, sales to the US market
represent approximately 40% of TFP's turnover in
 Sterling terms. The decline in the value of the US$
over the two periods disguises progress in the US
market where US$ sales were 33% higher in the past
financial year compared with the previous period.
The growth in the US market was largely attributable
to composite materials containing metal-coated
carbon fibres. As reported last year, niche
opportunities for highly conductive metal-coated
carbon fibre materials have grown steadily in recent
years. Applications include the use of these materials
in electronic, medical and flexible heating devices.
The majority of these fibres are now supplied by
Electro Fiber Technologies LLC (EFT ), the joint
venture company in which TFP has a 50% share. The
primary objective of EFT is to provide TFP with control
of quality and security of supply in order to service
these technically demanding applications. EFT
incurred a loss in line with that of the previous year.
Early in the year the Department of Trade and Industry
awarded funds to assist research and development by
TFP , Johnson Matthey and other UK companies to
ensure that the UK becomes a world centre for fuel
cell technology. 
James Cropper PLC 5
This was followed by the Board's decision to
construct a dedicated Research and Development
facility to support new product and market
development. I am pleased to report that this facility,
which incorporates a state of the art pilot line, has
now been commissioned.  
Pensions and IFRS
From accounting periods starting after 31st December
2004 all EU listed groups are required to prepare their
statutory accounts in compliance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ). This will mean
that the Group's interim and full year accounts for the
year to 1st April 2006 will be prepared on this basis.
IFRS will introduce changed Profit and Loss Account
and Balance Sheet formats and new accounting
policies. Although a number of the Group's
accounting policies will change, the only area where
there will be a significant change to the Profit and
Loss Account and Balance Sheet will be the treatment
of its final salary pension schemes in accordance with
IAS 19. IAS 19 requires that actuaries undertake
annual valuations of companies' final salary
schemes. Deficits revealed by these valuations are
included on the sponsoring companies' Balance
Sheets, either directly against Reserves or via the
Profit and Loss Account. The changes to accounting
practices relating to final salary pension schemes are
outlined in the Financial Review. 
The Group's two final salary pension schemes have
been closed to new membership for a number of
years. The Board recognises that these schemes form
a very important element of existing members'
remuneration package. The Group will endeavour to
maintain the schemes for their benefit. However it
cannot do this without their support and
commitment. To effect this existing members' future
service contributions have been increased
substantially in recent years.
Safety
Considerable progress has been made in developing
and implementing the Group's Safety Strategy over
the course of the year, our objective being to achieve
zero injuries in the long term. I am pleased to report
that the number of lost time accidents for the past
financial year fell to 9 compared to 20 in the previous
year.  
People
Following the rapid expansion of The Paper Mill Shop
chain of outlets the number of people employed by
the Group has increased dramatically, numbering 601
at the end of the past financial year of whom 123
work for the retail business. They are a welcome
addition to our workforce. The improvement in the
Group's profitability over the year could not have
been achieved without the goodwill and effort of our
employees. I am grateful to them for their
contribution in the face of a challenging trading
environment.   
Outlook
In recent years the Group has had to absorb increases in
overheads that were largely outside its control. These have
included increases in energy, pension contributions, National
Insurance contributions, insurance premiums, effluent
treatment charges and the cost of regulatory compliance. The
growth in Group turnover is therefore very encouraging and
reflects our efforts to develop new products, markets and new
routes to markets. TFP's sales in the US market continue to grow
and early indications suggest that our plans to grow sales in
James Cropper Speciality Papers are being achieved. Growth in
the USA and other non-European export markets is an
important element of our overall strategy. To mitigate the impact
of the weak US$ on our growing US$ revenues we continue to
optimise our internal currency hedging strategy in order to lower
exposure. 
Increasing energy costs, driven by major distortions in the
European natural gas market and international events, are
affecting all manufacturing based industries. Energy costs are
expected to rise further during the course of 2005. Pulp costs
are currently on a rising trend, particularly those relating to
hardwoods. These factors are likely to depress profitability of
James Cropper Speciality Papers in the current financial year
below the levels achieved in the past year.
The Paper Mill Shop will continue to expand the number of
outlets during the course of the next twelve months building
upon its success to date.
Given the Group's sound financial position and its portfolio of
related niche businesses, I am confident that despite the short-
term challenges we can develop and exploit future
opportunities in our areas of expertise at home and abroad.
James Cropper
Chairman
The Board, August 2004. From left to right: Nigel Read, George Quayle,
David Wilks, Alun Lewis, John Sclater, James Cropper, Patrick Willink,
Peter Herring, John Southwell, John Denman.