 4
James Cropper PLC
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW
THE PAST FINANCIAL YEAR
I am pleased to report that Group Profit before Taxation
recovered in the second half from  95,000 at the half year to
 785,000 for the full year. This compares with  1,867,000 for
the previous year.  I mentioned in my Interim Statement that the
Paper Division had been affected by difficult trading conditions
in the first half. Although the situation in this Division remains
challenging there was sign of some recovery in the second half
as a result of increased volumes. I also commented on several
cost increases that were largely outside the Group's control
such as National Insurance, insurance premiums, effluent
treatment charges and regulatory compliance, which affected all
Divisions. In addition the weakness of the US$ affected margins
on export sales by the Converting and Technical Fibre Products
Divisions. Although the weak US$ benefited the Paper Division
this was more than offset by the increase in costs of raw
materials denominated in Euros as this currency strengthened.
Action has been taken to redress the balance in currency flows
across the Group. Additionally increased pension contributions
arising from the results of the recent actuarial valuations of the
Group's two final salary schemes have been charged against
profit in the second half-year. Inevitably given all these factors
there has been a reduction in the profits reported by each
Division compared to the previous year.
DIVIDENDS
The Board has decided to maintain its policy of progressive
dividend increases with a 4.0% overall increase on last year
with a final dividend of 5.9p, making the total dividend 7.8p
compared to 7.5p in 2003. This is to reflect the improved
operating conditions in the second half year and the Group's
longer-term growth plans.
GROUP RE-ORGANISATION
With effect from 30th March 2003 the Group structure
was reorganised.  James Cropper PLC transferred the
Papermaking and Converting businesses to two new
subsidiary companies, James Cropper Speciality
Papers Limited and James Cropper Converting Limited
respectively. Each business now has its own capital
structure to enable more effective financial
measurement of their individual performance. 
PAPER
The Division's operating profit reduced from
 1,085,000 to  415,000. 
It has been a year of contrasts for James Cropper
Speciality Papers with subdued economic activity
leading to the paper machines running below full
capacity in the first half whilst in the second half
volumes increased.  Management's focus on growing
turnover has been rewarded with some attractive new
business that bodes well for the future. Sales into
China were less than expected due to planned
exhibitions being cancelled or postponed because of
the SARS epidemic. Progress has been made in the
USA market through the appointment of a new agent.
We remain confident that these two markets hold
considerable potential. The price of Northern
Softwood Bleached Kraft pulp, the market
benchmark, reached US$560 per tonne in the first
quarter, then fell to US$520 in the second quarter,
before resuming an upward trend in the last quarter
towards US$600.  However the weakness of the US$
mitigated the impact of these increases. Although the
Euro strengthened during the year a weaker market
for Euro priced hardwood pulps counteracted the
strength of the currency. The cost of those dyes and
other chemicals priced in Euros increased
considerably as the value of the currency rose.
The Paper Mill Shop retail business grew strongly with
four new outlets opening in the year bringing the total
number of shops at the year-end to eleven.  This
growth, together with that of James Cropper Speciality
Papers in the second half led to an increase in
turnover of 6.8% for the Division as a whole.
CONVERTING
Operating profit declined from  551,000 to
 394,000. Turnover was down 3.7%, with volume up
5.9%.  The Division maintained its position as the
leading UK manufacturer of display board recapturing
market share against fierce competition but at the
expense of margins.  The demand for mount board
continues to be positive but the weakness of the US$
has eroded margins on sales into the USA.  Good
progress has been made in implementing cost
reduction measures.
TECHNICAL FIBRE PRODUCTS (TFP )
Operating profit for the year was  474,000 against a
record  646,000 last year. Turnover was down by
4.9%. With over 40% of its business in the USA it was
inevitable that TFP's turnover and margins would be
adversely affected by the weak US$. In addition sales
into South East Asia were depressed by the SARS
epidemic. In the fourth quarter there was a recovery
in sales, particularly in the USA. 
James Cropper with John Southwell (left) and David Wilks (right) 5
TFP has completed qualification programmes with
eight major US door manufacturers. As a result TFP's
fire retardant products are now placed in a very strong
position with the US construction industry as the
Federal International Building Code places more
stringent control on the industry. Sales of fire
retardant materials into the USA grew by over 40%
during the last year.
TFP has strengthened its market position by moving
upstream to manufacture highly conductive metal-
coated carbon fibres through a 50/50 joint venture
with Thermion Systems International Inc, a customer
based in the USA. The joint venture company, known
as Electro Fiber Technologies LLC (EFT ), has
acquired an exclusive license and rights to sub-
license patented technology from another USA
company. The first objective of EFT is to provide TFP
with security of supply of metal-coated carbon fibre
materials. A plant sized to service both the JV
partners' needs in the near term was commissioned
towards the end of the year. The Group's share of
start up costs was  93,000 during the period.
Applications for these materials include use in
electronic, medical and flexible heating devices.
There is also significant emerging potential with
regard to electromagnetic interference shielding and
communication signal management systems.
TFP's fuel cell component programme with Johnson
Matthey continues to deliver improved development
materials to meet new and changing specifications
emerging from this exciting technology.
PENSIONS
The latest triennial actuarial valuations of the Group's
two final salary pensions schemes were completed
during the year. The valuations have revealed a
combined deficit of  9,024,000 as at 31st March
2003. The deficits reflect changes in the Actuaries'
assumptions regarding longevity and the continuation
of low inflation, interest rates and investment yields.
It is planned to eliminate the deficits over a maximum
period of 17 years. Payments to the pension schemes
commenced in the year. These are subject to
Corporation Tax relief. Both schemes have been
closed to new membership for a number of years.
Existing members contributions will be increased over
the next two years. 
SAFETY
Although our objective is to achieve zero injuries in
the long term we have set a number of targets at
which to aim. On the journey to zero accidents the
following short to medium term targets have been
set:
  Achieve a 33% year on year reduction in total lost
time injuries
  Achieve a 25% year on year reduction in minor
injuries
I am pleased to report that we have beaten our
targets for the past year. 
The Board firmly believes that a safer working
environment is also a more effective, productive and
cost efficient working environment.  
PEOPLE
David Wilks joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in
April 2004.  He is a Director of Wilks & Partners, a management
consultancy he founded in 2001.  David brings extensive
experience of manufacturing operations to the Board having
previously worked for H.J. Heinz, United Biscuits, as a
consultant with ER Consultants and latterly his own firm. David
will stand for election at the AGM in August. 
John Southwell will retire at the AGM after 20 years service as a
Non-Executive Director and 10 years as Chairman of the Audit
and Remuneration Committees. His knowledge, commitment
and wise advice together with his long involvement in corporate
finance in the City has been invaluable to the Group particularly
regarding corporate matters. I would like to take this
opportunity to offer John our thanks for his long and loyal
service. 
OUTLOOK
The thrust of James Cropper Speciality Paper's efforts will
continue to be founded on growing turnover both in the UK and
export markets combined with efficiency savings.  Pulp prices
are currently on an upward trend although the cost is mitigated
by the weak US$. It is questionable whether the rate of increase
will be sustainable through the rest of the year. The recent
escalation in the price of crude oil and natural gas will have a
significant impact on energy costs in the current year.  The
Paper Mill Shop has already opened two new outlets in the
current financial year and is looking at further suitable sites. 
We anticipate opening up to four outlets each year for the
foreseeable future.   
Converting will concentrate on increasing mountboard volume
and maintaining its position in the display board market and
reducing costs to restore its profitability to its former level over
the next few years.  
The business focus of TFP will be to develop strong leadership
positions and growth in composite, fire protection and fuel cell
markets. With the passing of the SARS epidemic, sales into
South East Asia are anticipated to grow beyond previous levels.
The investment in EFT secures supply of metal-coated carbon
fibre materials and could lead to significant sales potential in
the future.
I am confident that each Division's long-term strategy will be
achieved and that the Group as a whole will rise to the
inevitable challenges that lie ahead and continue to reward
shareholders through progressive increases in dividends.
James Cropper
Chairman