 Introduction
James Fisher and Sons plc has had another excellent year in 201 1 with 
the main financial measures improved by between 1 1 % and 16%.
Cash conversion was also strong at 105% and net gearing was 
reduced to 75% at 31 December 201 1 from 85% at the previous year 
end. This was despite an investment of  17 .6 million in new equipment 
to generate further organic growth.
Strategy
Over the last five years James Fisher has pursued a consistent marine 
service strategy focused on the world's growing regions rather than 
on the more mature markets of Europe and North America. These 
marine service skills consist of specialist engineering and operational 
capabilities which characteristically command net margins in excess  
of 10% and returns on capital employed of at least 15% pre tax and are 
cash generative. In 201 1 over 60% of the Group's revenue is derived 
from outside the UK compared to 35% five years ago.
The advantages of our strategy are as follows:
   The growing marine service markets on which we are focused 
are vast, fast growing and with less mature competition. This is 
particularly true in the Asia Pacific region;
   We do relatively little business in North America and Continental 
Europe and have therefore been more sheltered from their 
economic problems;
   The growing proportion of non UK operations has helped reduce 
our effective tax rate, now less than 20%, although recent UK tax 
reductions have also helped.
The Group also benefits from a strong divisional executive team, 
most of which has been in place for five years. Its entrepreneurial skill, 
together with the capital and commercial support from the centre, has 
helped drive strong organic growth. Increasingly Group companies are 
working together to win larger contracts, mainly overseas, which is an 
important strategic focus for our management team going forward.
Chairman's statement
Since 2002 the Company has been transformed 
from a traditional coastal shipping company 
into the UK's leading marine service business.
Tim Harris, Chairman
Underlying diluted earnings per share (p) 
11 48.4
10 41.9
09 37.0
08 35.4
07 32.6
 James Fisher made excellent 
progress in 2011, with double-
digit growth rates in both 
revenue and profit. 
4 James Fisher and Sons plc Annual Report 2011
2011 2010 change
Group revenue  307.6m  268.3m + 15%
Underlying operating profit  36.1m  32.5m + 1 1%
Underlying profit before tax  30.0m  27.1m + 1 1%
Underlying diluted 
earnings per share 48.4p 41.9p + 16%
Proposed final dividend 10.74p 9.68p + 1 1%
Statutory profit before tax  29.8m  25.9m + 15%
Statutory diluted 
earnings per share 48.0p 39.7p + 21% Specialist T echnical
2011 underlying profit  19.8 million 
(2010:  18.5 million)
Specialist Technical enjoyed a strong second half with profits up 22%, 
due to robust organic growth. Annual profit growth was good, up 7%, 
particularly pleasing considering the strong comparator in the first 
half of 2010 which experienced an exceptionally strong oil contango 
market, benefiting our ship to ship oil transfer business. Divisional 
margins at 14.0% were slightly down on 2010 (15.8%), but this reflected 
a greater use of chartered-in vessels for specific projects rather than 
any underlying margin erosion. A good example is the recent BP 
Angola contract, the award of which we announced in February 2012. 
We shall be managing the oil offtake operations from an FPSO (floating 
production, storage and offloading) unit with three chartered tugs, as 
well as providing a number of related diving and maintenance services. 
This contract also illustrates how the Group divisions are increasingly 
working together to win larger contracts. Among the decisive elements 
in our offer were:
   BP's long relationship with James Fisher and Fendercare;
   The Group's established base in Angola, originally developed for 
Scan Tech Offshore; and
   James Fisher's long history and experience in operating coastal 
tankers through James Fisher Everard.
James Fisher Nuclear (JFN) is also included in this division and 
produced a significantly better result in 201 1 with the potential for 
more improvement to come. JFN is beginning to benefit from the 
investments made in prior years and from an increasing recognition 
of its core capabilities of non-destructive testing and remote handling 
in the complex contracting environment prevalent in the nuclear 
industry. JFN also worked closely during the year with James Fisher 
Defence (JFD) and Scan Tech in Norway, primarily using its remote 
handling skills.
The prospects for further organic growth in this division remain 
excellent and we shall continue to support it with suitable 
capital investment.
Offshore Oil
2011 underlying profit  12.8 million 
(2010:  11.0 million)
Divisional revenue for the full year grew by 22% compared with 2010 
and divisional profit by 16%. There was a slight reduction in margin 
reflecting a growing proportion of the business coming from services, 
as opposed to straight rental which enjoys higher margins owing to its 
greater use of capital. This strong performance was the result of two 
positive features - strong organic growth in the new oil provinces of the 
world and the continued recovery of North Sea markets, supported by 
the capital investment we have made, and continue to make.
The division's growth into new markets is primarily being led by our 
Scan Tech Offshore and RMSpumptools brands. Scan Tech Offshore 
is now an established supplier to the offshore industry in South 
America, Australia and West Africa and during 201 1 RMSpumptools, 
which sells worldwide, set up an assembly base in Singapore to 
support its Asian coverage.
The positive trends which helped the 201 1 result, appear set to 
continue, supported by the world's proven demand for oil. Our 
specialist brands are increasingly winning business and gaining 
recognition worldwide and we shall continue to support them with 
further investment.
Case study 
Renewable energy services
To support wind, wave and tidal energy developers we have 
established a base at Lyness, Orkney Islands and at Great 
Yarmouth, UK to help improve the processes of build, installation 
and test as well as ongoing maintenance. In August 201 1, James 
Fisher completed a project off Walney Island, Cumbria, to provide  
a vessel and diving support services to a wind turbine contractor.
Overview Governance Group accounts
James Fisher and Sons plc Annual Report 2011  5
Business review Marine Oil
2011 underlying profit  1.1 million 
(2010:  0.7 million)
Marine Oil is the division most exposed to the UK and Europe's current 
economic problems and this is reflected in the results which were only 
slightly better than in 2010. There is still overcapacity and a weak spot 
market in Europe. However, James Fisher Everard, unlike most of world 
shipping today, is profitable and cash generative although clearly the 
overall return is still unacceptable. Our policy is to match fleet capacity 
to our long term customers' contractual requirements which have been 
declining, particularly to Ireland. To this end, we have sold mv Audacity 
(3,000 tonnes) and negotiated early cessation of the charters for mv 
Pembroke Fisher (15,000 tonnes) and mv Chartsman (6,000 tonnes). 
We now only have 16% of the Group's assets in this business and our 
target is to reduce this to less than 10%. However, it remains relevant 
that Tankships is the origin of our marine service skills and is a strong 
proof point of marine competence, as the BP Angola contract win 
demonstrated.
Chairman's statement
continued
Defence
2011 underlying profit  5.5 million 
(2010:  5.3 million)
While divisional revenue in 201 1 grew by over 30% to  28. 1 million, 
the divisional profit remained flat at  5.5 million mainly because of 
extra expenditure on Subsea business development and sales. 
James Fisher won a number of significant projects during the year 
including the modernisation contract for URF , the Swedish Navy's 
submarine rescue vehicle - which was announced in May and is now 
well underway - and the continued development of our swimmer 
delivery  vehicle which is well advanced. We revealed the prototype in 
September at the DSEi (Defence and Security Equipment International) 
exhibition in London and it attracted much international attention. Our 
existing submarine rescue contracts in Singapore, Australia and the UK 
performed well and met their operational and financial targets in 201 1. 
Developments on the surface ship side were less encouraging in 201 1. 
The Government so far has favoured other priorities to surface ship 
outsourcing. At Foreland Shipping Limited, we commented at the half 
year on the uncertainty over the charter rate at which two of its roll on-
roll off vessels would be fixed. The vessels were chartered in January 
2012 and current market rates are lower than the previous charter. Our 
share of Foreland's result is likely to reduce by around  1.5 million per 
year as a consequence.
We have great confidence in the prospects for our Subsea operations 
which have a growing international reputation and outreach and into 
which we are investing to ensure they meet their potential. We are 
less positive about the prospects for surface ship outsourcing. We 
have the skills needed and will participate if there is a realistic prospect 
of success.
Case study 
Papa Terra, South America
Strainstall Marine and RMSpumptools have secured contracts 
to supply key technology for a Tension Leg Platform oil field 
development off the coast of Brazil. Strainstall Marine supplied a 
Tendon Tension Monitoring System (TTMS) which is safety critical 
technology with each load cell designed to bear 1,200 tonnes. 
RMSpumptools is supplying high power reliability penetrators,  
using its expertise in electrical submersible pumps.
6 James Fisher and Sons plc Annual Report 2011