 Jarvis Porter Group PLC 02
Trading Results
Turnover for the year totalled  18.0m (2004:  18.7m)
and was entirely attributable to Darby Group. It should
be noted, however, that turnover in the previous year
incorporated only ten months post-acquisition trading
from Darby Group, and therefore like for like turnover
fell significantly. Darby Group's turnover has been
affected by challenging and competitive market
conditions which became noticeable in the second half 
of the financial year ended 28 February 2004 and which
have deteriorated throughout the current financial year,
driven by continued uncertainty in the UK housing
market and tightening of monetary policy which has
impacted upon consumer spending.
The deterioration in Darby Group's turnover inevitably
impacted upon operating margins due to relatively high
fixed costs, and resulted in an operating loss prior to
exceptional items of  0.6m (2004: profit  0.9m).
This loss was offset by an exceptional gain of  0.25m
(2004: nil) relating to the recovery of legal and
professional costs originally incurred in the year 
ended 28 February 2003 in connection with an aborted
corporate transaction. Accordingly, a total operating
loss of  0.4m was incurred (2004: profit  0.9m).
Efforts to resolve the long-standing issue of the surplus
Hinckley site have continued throughout the year.
Marketing has been continued, but efforts to assign 
the lease or secure a sub-tenant have to date proved
unsuccessful. Given that other opportunities are being
pursued, the Board has decided to maintain the level of
provision required to dispose of the property, resulting 
in an additional charge of  0.6m (2004:  0.6m).
Following net interest income of  0.2m (2004:  0.2m) and
other finance charges of  0.3m (2004:  0.4m) in relation
to FRS17 - Retirement Benefits (which was adopted for
the first time in the year ended 28 February 2004), the
Group incurred a loss before tax of  1.2m (2004: profit of
 1.2m, including a  1.1m gain on the disposal of an
investment in the shares of European Colour plc).
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
The Group incurred an operating cash outflow of
 0.9m (2004: inflow  1.1m) - the cash drains of
 0.6m for the Hinckley site and  0.5m for contributions
to the Company's closed defined benefit pension scheme
being the major causal factors combined with the total
operating loss of  0.4m referred to above.
Capital expenditure totalled  0.9m (2004:  1.2m),and
was largely attributable to the new toughening furnace
and flexible glass cutting facility installed at Darby
Group's main site in Scunthorpe. This has enabled the 
site to process soft-coated low emissivity glass, and
Darby Group now has three of its six sites that are soft
coat capable, in line with its previously stated strategy.
Total net funds at year-end amounted to  3.6m
(2004:  5.3m), consisting of net cash deposits of  4.5m
offset by hire purchase contracts of  0.9m. Group net
asset value per share excluding pension liabilities
amounted to 19.5p (2004: 21.3p), total Group net asset
value per share amounted to 7.9p (2004: 10.8p).
Pensions
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme
which was closed to new members in April 2001, but
which was not transferred or wound up following the
sale/closure of the Company's previous printing and
packaging interests during 2001-2002. At 28 February
2005, under FRS17 the scheme funding deficit after
deferred tax was  5.6m (2004:  5.1m), the deterioration
being largely due to a reduction in yields from AA rated
corporate bonds, the basis of the discount factor used to
calculate scheme liabilities. Returns on scheme assets,
although healthy, were insufficient to offset the effect 
of the reduced discount rate.
In order to reduce this deficit, the Company agreed to
increase its contributions to the scheme from  0.32m 
to  0.66m per annum, and commenced the increased
level of contribution with effect from 1 September 2004.
The Company is currently considering possible alternative
strategies to help reduce the funding deficit, and thereby
reduce future contribution payments, and hopes to
conclude the viability of such strategies shortly.
Board Changes
Peter Gyllenhammar resigned as a Non-Executive Director
of the Company on 9 November 2004 due to demands
on his time elsewhere. The Board thanks Peter for his
efforts and wise counsel during his term of office. Peter 
is a shareholder and director of the ultimate holding
company of The Union Discount Company of London
Limited (Union ), which owns approximately 26.6 per
cent of the issued share capital of the Company, and 
is the beneficial owner of approximately a further
3.2 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company
via his wholly owned company, Silverslaggan AB. Peter was
replaced as a Non-Executive Director by Ralph Baber, who
is Managing Director of Union Investment Management
Limited and is also Chairman of F rvaltnings AB Browallia,
of which Union is a wholly owned subsidiary.
At the same time Philip Corke was appointed as
Executive-Deputy Chairman of the Company, and was
replaced as Chief Executive by Stephen Bannister,
previously the Finance Director. This Board structure is
considered to be adequate until the Group expands from
its current size, but will be kept under regular review.
Strategy
Darby Group intends to become a customer service and
quality focused, leading low cost producer of double
glazed units, and has invested circa  3m in the period
Chairman's Statement 2002-2005 to enable it to process low emissivity soft
coated glass (in anticipation of the future tightening of
building regulations with regard to the thermal efficiency
of installed windows). Proposals released by the Office of
the Deputy Prime Minister in July 2004, anticipated to
become law in 2006, outline the possibility of Window
Energy Ratings  to be used as an alternate measurement
system to the current U  value system, but thereafter no
other significant changes to existing building regulations
are likely until 2010. These proposals would effectively
extend the life of existing hard-coated glass products
unless market forces increase demand for soft-coated
glass regardless of minimum legislative requirements.
Darby Group now has three sites that are soft coat
capable, and is in a position to pursue contracts from
which it was previously excluded, notably for commercial
buildings where soft coats are already heavily specified.
However, no further significant capital expenditure 
will be committed until legislative requirements are
confirmed, or until market trends confirm increased
demand for soft coats.
Final Dividend
The Board does not recommend a final dividend
(2004: nil), and indeed is unable to do so until sufficient
distributable reserves exist.
Personnel
In what has been a difficult and challenging year,
I would like to thank all of our employees for their
commitment, enthusiasm and efforts, and look forward
to their continued support to improve the financial
performance of the Group.
Outlook
In recent months, a number of Darby Group's glass
processing competitors have been placed into
administration. It is clear that the
housing market is cooling, and
that house price inflation is
beginning to fall,
although indicators
from the leading
mortgage lenders
are mixed.
Economic
conditions remain
uncertain, with
specific housing
market concerns
regarding the reduction in
mortgage equity withdrawal
and the fall in mortgage lending
coupled with the impact of high oil 
prices on growth prospects for the economy 
as a whole. It is therefore difficult to forecast the 
trend for consumer expenditure for the forthcoming 
year and beyond.
Against this backdrop, Darby Group has implemented 
a number of measures to improve process controls 
within manufacturing in order to provide exceptional
service to its customers, and has strengthened its sales
and marketing structure to identify and attract new
customers. The cost base of the business is under
continual review, and waste reduction programmes 
are underway at each of our sites. No growth in Darby
Group's current core markets is anticipated in the 
short term, but ultimately turnover growth is key to
restoring acceptable levels of profitability - Darby Group
must therefore increase its current market share by 
being better than its competitors, as well as identifying
new market sectors and niches which it can enter
economically. The changes made in the year, alongside
reduced disruption from capital investment projects,
should provide a suitable base from which to make
progress towards these aims during the financial year 
to 28 February 2006.
The Board will focus on restoring overall profitability to
Darby Group, combined with ongoing efforts to resolve
the legacy property and pension scheme funding issues,
during the year ahead in order to ultimately deliver
improved shareholder value from the current low base.
Christopher Mills
Chairman (Non-Executive)
9 May 2005
Annual Report 2005 03

The Board will focus
on restoring overall
profitability to Darby
Group, combined with
ongoing efforts to resolve
the legacy property and
pension scheme funding
issues, during the year
ahead in order to
ultimately deliver
improved shareholder
value from the current
low base.
Christopher Mills
Chairman (Non-Executive)
#