 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
the power of
partnerships
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report on another year of outstanding performance by the Company
and its people. Electricity customers benefited most demonstrably this year from our
recent diversification away from electricity produced locally from oil. Crude oil prices rose
dramatically in response to political unrest in the Middle East, strong demand from
developing countries and the impact on refinery capacity of a decade of inadequate
investment. The local impact was a series of gas and heating oil price rises of more than
40%. By contrast, electricity users benefited again from our pledge not to increase tariffs
until 2005, by which time they will have been unchanged for four consecutive years. As
predicted, this commitment caused profits in our core business to remain static at  6.5m
but Group pre-tax profit, before exeptional costs, increased by 15% to  7.0m as the
performance of our other businesses improved.
Our price restraint received increased acknowledgement this year not just because 
of the contrast with competing fuels, but also because of a renewed political resolve to
contain price inflation in the economy and growing concern for those in the community
most vulnerable to rises in the cost of living. In recent years the Retail Price Index in
Jersey has risen at a rate approximately twice that in the UK. We have always worked
closely with vulnerable customers and local charities such as Age Concern and the
Citizens Advice Bureau. This year, we were pleased to enter into a sponsorship
agreement with Jersey Family Nursing & Home Care which has opened up new 
channels for us to help those in need.
The priority we have given to price stability and competitiveness over many years continues
to be rewarded in the local energy market. Again this year, the great majority of all new
building developments were specified as all-electric. We work jointly with developers,
architects, housing associations and manufacturers to provide complete solutions from
design through to installation and maintenance and we do not detect any threat to our
market share from the competing fuels of gas and oil, in the foreseeable future.
The year brought greatly increased public awareness of energy policy issues. Energy
security and the scarcity of the investment needed to achieve it, dominated international
debate on competition and regulation policy in the wake of the recent widespread
power failures in Italy, Sweden, the USA and Canada. In the UK, industry commentators
have warned of power shortages in the event of a cold winter, whereas in Jersey our
electricity reliability has continued at a very high level, which is now typically eight to ten
times higher than in the UK. This performance has been underpinned by our retained
capacity to meet all electricity demand from our own power station plant,
notwithstanding our fully established practice to import from the European wholesale
market more than 97% of all our requirements. Our plant operated for several weeks
during the year in its standby role to provide security against any interruptions to power
imports supply through our two Continental interconnectors during periods of technical
risk and routine maintenance on our Channel Islands Electricity Grid and high voltage
distribution network.
Our price restraint
received increased
acknowledgement 
this year 
The priority we have
given to price stability and
competitiveness over many
years continues to be
rewarded in the local
energy market  04
Chairman's Statement
During the year we reinforced our emergency standby electricity generating capacity,
with the completed commissioning of a third gas turbine situated at La Collette power
station. This addition to our fast-start plant enables us to extend to our wider customer
base the facility for rapid restoration of supplies in the event of a sudden loss of
imported power, previously afforded principally to the business community. We also
completed the installation of a  4m substation to preserve our supply security standards
in the East of the Island, where load growth threatened to compromise them. These
infrastructure investments mark the end of more than a decade in which we have
invested more than  100m to sustain in the long term the price competitiveness, supply
reliability and environmental performance of our electricity system, which was
demonstrated again this year. Our future willingness and ability to invest in
infrastructure will depend on the impact of the Competition (Jersey) Law which will
come into force in 2005. We expect recognition from the Jersey Competition Regulatory
Authority (JCRA) of our well established tradition of behaviour, which delivers to
electricity users all of the benefits of a competitive market, without the risks. Our
investments in our network, our exploitation of the European power market and our
manpower reductions of 40% in recent years have been undertaken despite the risk
that the JCRA may ignore our continuous drive for efficiency, when they turn their
sights onto the Company.
In the year ahead we face additional costs of imported power which cannot be 
fully absorbed, so we have given notice, with regret, that our tariffs will increase 
by 2
1
/2% effective from January, 2005. However, our success in hedging against the
strengthening Euro and the caps which we secured to limit indexed price increases
enabled us to pledge that there will be no further increases before 2006. Looking
further ahead however, we anticipate significant cost increases when our existing power
purchase agreement with Electricit  de France expires in December 2005. 
Notwithstanding significant cost increases in the European power market our 
long-term business plans still indicate a stable situation in which our balance sheet
remains practically free of debt and cash flow is adequate to fund future capital
expenditure and normal operations, without resorting to more than single digit price
rises. This assumes that any price controls imposed by the JCRA will allow at least the
rates of return we presently achieve on capital. Presently at 7% this return is in the
range accepted by utility regulators in other jurisdictions as being the minimum required
to encourage essential infrastructure investment. Should this assumption ultimately
prove invalid, we could be forced to abandon our high standards of strategic and
operational security and manage a decline of supply reliability down to the levels
prevailing in Europe and the UK.
In the last decade 
we have invested more
than  100m to sustain
price competitiveness,
supply reliability and
environmental
performance of our
electricity system   05
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
the power of
partnerships
Chairman's Statement
Our capital investment plans provide for the  10m reinforcement of our primary
distribution network in the West of the Island over the next five years and the possibility of
a third electricity interconnector to the Continent at a present day cost of  30m. This
interconnector may be necessary to mitigate the risk of failure of the first of our two
existing submarine cables, which was installed in 1985 and has deteriorated metallurgically.
Such an investment would be predicated on retiring the steam-powered tranche of our
power station plant. This strategic option will be assessed against the regulatory risks when
that regime becomes better defined. 
Your Board is proud of the culture of performance through people, which is embedded
throughout Jersey Electricity and was externally benchmarked so successfully this year.
Our training and development programmes, communications and business improvement
initiatives have been wholeheartedly supported by our staff. Our processes for engaging
our people were judged worthy of submission to Investors in People for accreditation
and we were pleased to be advised at the end of the year that we had exceeded the
required standards for the award. These achievements rely on partnership between staff
at all levels and a leadership culture based on mutual respect. 
It is appropriate that I should thank all of the staff and management, whose efforts and
industry have delivered these excellent results. I do this wholeheartedly on behalf of the
Board, our shareholders and our customers. During the year, the Board further
recognised the contribution of the management team by appointing as additional
Executive Directors, David Padfield and Richard Plaster, responsible for Operations and
Commercial/Human Resources respectively. 
The Board's performance has been enhanced considerably by the work of the Audit
Committee which in accordance with recent best practice in corporate governance has
been allocated increased resources. At the end of the year the Board initiated a review
of its performance, against the criteria identified in the Higgs Report on the Effectiveness
of Non-Executive Directors and reviews will be repeated regularly in future.
We consider that the quality of our people and their leadership offers opportunities for
growth through further diversification into parallel markets. During the year we initiated
an approach to acquire the Island's water utility but later withdrew, when our efforts to
validate an indicative assessment of value were frustrated by the inadequacy of
information provided by The Jersey New Waterworks Company. Subsequently, a strategic
review of the water and waste sectors was initiated by the States of Jersey which is the
majority shareholder in the water company and we will review again the opportunity for
acquisition, when that review has been completed.
It is appropriate that I
should thank all of the
staff and management,
whose efforts and industry
have delivered these
excellent results   06
Chairman's Statement
During the financial year, the disclosed FRS17 deficit in the Company's final salary
pension scheme dropped from  7m to  3m. This is attributable to the Company's
decision to increase its annual contributions into the Scheme to 21.2% of salaries and
an improvement in the markets. This rate is in excess of the minimum level calculated by
the Scheme's actuaries to be required following their triennial valuation of the Scheme at
31 December 2003. The Scheme's investment manager, UBS Laing & Cruickshank,
achieved an impressive return of 14.5% for the 12 months to 30 September 2004,
against the benchmark return of 9.5%, and this performance made a very significant
further contribution to the elimination of the deficit.
Your Board is confident of the Company's future success and is satisfied that practical
measures are in place wherever possible to mitigate commercial risk. In view of this
year's satisfactory profits growth, it recommends that the recent trend of double digit
dividend growth should be maintained by a final gross dividend of 70 pence (2003 - 50
pence) which, together with the interim of 45 pence (2003 - 41 pence) gives a total of
115 pence (2003 - 91 pence).
D.R. MALTWOOD
Chairman