 Energy Supporting Energy
8 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Chairman's and  
Chief Executive's statement

 Through our market-leading 
positions in engineering, production 
facilities support and gas turbine 
services, we are well positioned to 
take advantage of strong growth 
trends in energy markets and we 
continue to anticipate good growth 
in the longer-term.  
Introduction
2011 was a year of successful strategic repositioning for the Group as we 
completed the acquisition of PSN and the disposal of the Well Support division to 
focus on our market-leading positions in engineering, production facilities support 
and gas turbine services.
Overall, it has been a year of strong growth. In Engineering, increased activity in 
upstream and subsea & pipelines led to higher revenues and improved margins. 
We have largely completed the integration of the PSN acquisition with Wood 
Group's Production Facilities business, to create Wood Group PSN, and are on 
track to deliver expected synergies. The PSN acquisition has performed ahead of 
expectations. Overall, Wood Group PSN performance benefited from strength in 
the North Sea and North America, but was held back by previously announced 
losses on Wood Group Production Facilities contracts in Oman and Colombia. In 
Wood Group GTS, we saw strong revenue growth and margin improvement in our 
Maintenance business and good progress in Power Solutions, which recognised 
significant levels of profit in the second half.
In support of our continued development, we formalised the common values 
and culture which unite the Group. These Core Values - Safety & Assurance, 
Relationships, Social Responsibility, People, Innovation, Financial Responsibility 
and Integrity - define who we are, what we believe in, set out how we act and how 
we expect to be treated, and provide a sound basis to make decisions.
2011 Group performance
2011 
$m
2010
$m
%
Change
Total revenue
1
6,052.3 5,063.1 19.5%
Revenue from continuing operations
2
5,666.8 4,085.1 38.7%
Total EBITA
1
398.7 344.8 15.6% 
EBITA from continuing operations
2
341.6 218.7 56.2%
Total EBITA margin % 6.6% 6.8% (0.2%pts)
EBITA margin from continuing operations % 6.0% 5.4% 0.6%pts
Profit from continuing operations before tax 
and exceptional items
254.1 156.2 62.7%
Basic EPS 530.7c 32.4c n/m
Adjusted diluted EPS
3
60.2c 39.8c 51.3%
Total dividend 13.5c 11.0c 22.7%
ROCE
4
18.4% 19.5% (1.1%pts)
Note: Total revenue and EBITA figures represent the sum of the Group's continuing operations 
and Well Support activity up to the date of disposal. Continuing operations revenue and EBITA 
figures include the results of PSN since acquisition, and exclude the results of Well Support 
in the period prior to its disposal and those of the Wood Group GTS Aero engine overhaul 
business.
Total revenue increased by 20% and total EBITA was up 16%. Revenue increased 
strongly in all divisions, including the impact of PSN results from 20 April 2011. 
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 39% and EBITA from continuing 
operations increased by 56% to $341.6m. Continuing operations EBITA margin 
( margins') increased by 0.6 percentage points due to improved margins in all 
divisions.
Adjusted diluted EPS increased by 51% to 60.2c, reflecting the increased EBITA in 
the period, lower finance expense, the lower effective tax rate and the favourable 
impact of the share reduction related to the return of cash. 
Reflecting our confidence in the longer-term outlook for the Group, we are 
declaring a final dividend of 9.6 cents which will bring the full year dividend to 
Allister G. Langlands
Chief Executive
Sir Ian Wood
Chairman 9
Overview of year Operational review
Further reading
Financial review  pages 16-21
Governance pages 34-55
Directors' biographies pages 36-37
Footnotes page 21
13.5 cents, up 23% on 2010. This takes the annual compound growth in 
dividends since our IPO in 2002 to 18%.
Markets 
Conditions in oil & gas markets remained strong. Some uncertainty 
around the global economic outlook remains, but we believe that energy 
market fundamentals will continue to be driven by supply side challenges 
coupled with rising global energy demand over the longer-term. In 2011, 
there was good growth in global E&P spend and this is forecast to 
increase by around 5% - 10% in 2012. E&P spend has a particular benefit 
for our Engineering activities focused on clients' development-related 
capex and we remain encouraged by our order book & prospects list. For 
Wood Group PSN, we believe the market for our brownfield production 
support services will expand as the number of assets increases and 
ages, and operators increasingly focus on asset integrity, process safety, 
performance assurance and production enhancement. 
Economic conditions for our power customers in Europe and North 
America remained challenging, although our Wood Group GTS 
maintenance business secured a number of new awards, and levels 
of interest in our fast-track power solutions offering remain strong, 
particularly in emerging economies. The growth in global electricity 
demand over the longer-term, relatively favourable gas prices and 
environmental considerations continue to support the future prospects for 
gas-fired power generation.
Strategy 
In 2011, we completed the acquisition of PSN for a consideration of 
around $1bn and the disposal of the Well Support division for $2.8bn and 
these steps enhanced the Group's strategic focus and market-leading 
positions. Following completion of the transactions, we returned  1.1bn 
in cash to shareholders through a tender offer and B/C share scheme.
The strategy of the refocused group has four strands:
 	 To maintain a balance between development and later cycle 
production support 
 	 To grow and maintain our market-leading positions, based on 
differentiated know-how, innovation and technical capabilities
 	 To develop long-term customer relationships often through 
performance-based contracts
 	 To extend our services within our three core businesses and broaden 
our international presence
In pursuit of this strategy, and in addition to the PSN acquisition, we 
completed the acquisitions of Dar E&C and Pi-Consult to enhance our 
Engineering capability in Saudi Arabia. We also established a joint venture 
in Kuala Lumpur and acquired ISI Solutions in Argentina to provide 
engineering and consulting services to markets in South East Asia 
and Latin America. In Angola, we established the Wood Group Kianda 
joint venture to provide engineering and production facilities support 
services. In Wood Group GTS we took a number of steps to improve 
our differentiation, including the acquisitions of IMS and Gas Turbine 
Efficiency, and the formation of a strategic alliance with Pratt & Whitney 
Power Systems to service the important frame 7 FA aftermarket. 
The Board 
Bob Keiller joined the Board on 20 April 2011 as Group Director,  
Wood Group PSN, following the completion of the PSN acquisition.  
Jim Renfroe, Group Director, Well Support, resigned from the Board 
on 26 April 2011 following the sale of the division. We thank Jim for his 
considerable achievements in leading the Well Support division during his 
tenure with the Group. John Ogren resigned as a non-executive director 
after 10 years on the Board at the 2011 AGM. We are immensely grateful 
for John's contribution, in particular his broad industry knowledge, both 
as an operator and a contractor, and insight into events and market 
trends in North America. Jeremy Wilson was appointed as a new non-
executive director on 1 August 2011. 
Risks and Uncertainties
Risks and uncertainties are inherent features of the oil & gas and power 
services industries and provide challenges that cannot be completely 
eliminated. However, we assess risk carefully and mitigate where we can 
to ensure that we keep our people safe, serve our customers well and, at 
the same time, achieve acceptable returns for our shareholders. 
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that, where possible, risk 
is managed effectively as part of the established governance structure. 
In 2010, the Board prepared a statement of its attitude to risk which 
has been updated in 2011 following the sale of Well Support and the 
acquisition of PSN. 
Safety & Assurance
Safety & Assurance is our top priority and first Core Value. Over many 
years we have reduced injury rates to our people whilst growing our 
workforce significantly. This continued in 2011 with a 31% reduction in 
lost time injury rate and an 11% reduction in total recordable injury rate, 
compared to 2010. However, two incidents provided a stark reminder 
of the need for a continued focus on safety improvement; two engineers 
died in a road traffic accident in Saudi Arabia and one technician died 
following the collapse of a customer crane in the Gulf of Mexico. Lessons 
have been learned and actions taken to improve risk management as a 
result. Management remain committed to a relentless focus on Safety & 
Assurance improvement and continue to invest in appropriate leadership 
and technical safety training.
Outlook
We anticipate good progress in all divisions in 2012. 
In our activities supporting clients' development capex, we are forecasting 
strong growth in Engineering driven by increased E&P capex spend and 
have good visibility in our Wood Group GTS Power Solutions business 
into 2012. In our activities supporting clients' production opex activities, 
we see performance improvement in Wood Group PSN and further 
growth in Wood Group GTS Maintenance. Through our market-leading 
positions in engineering, production facilities support and gas turbine 
services, we are well positioned to take advantage of strong growth 
trends in energy markets and we continue to anticipate good growth in 
the longer-term.
 
Sir Ian Wood,  Allister G. Langlands,  
Chairman Chief Executive
 
;
 go online at www.woodgroup.com