  
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
The period since the start of our last financial year has been one of very significant 
developments for Anglesey Mining plc. We have made major advances at the Parys 
Mountain copper-zinc-lead and Labrador iron ore projects and both are being 
prepared for production in 2009.  
At Parys Mountain we revised the development plan, carried out a very successful 
drilling programme, published a new JORC-compliant resource estimate on the White 
Rock zone and completed a Scoping Study that, subject to funding, should lead to an 
early, reduced risk, development plan to bring the mine into commercial production 
in 2009.  
In Labrador we carried out a major assessment and exploration programme of our 
iron ore properties in the Schefferville area, completed an initial feasibility study that 
describes a robust economic project, supported this with an independent consultant's 
review and have made major progress with plans to finance this project through a 
proposed initial public offering in Canada. This should lead to first iron ore 
production in mid 2009.  
After the year end we raised  1.1 million in July 2007 by means of a private placing 
with London institutions. We believe this demonstrates institutional support both for 
our underlying properties and for management's plans to develop the assets and bring 
them into production. 
The group reported a profit for the year of  6.76 million, including a reversal of a 
 7.2 million impairment provision made in previous years, compared to a loss last 
year of  517,405. This impairment reversal has changed the balance sheet to better 
reflect the value of Parys Mountain. 
Labrador Iron Ore 
During the first year of our management, the iron ore properties at Schefferville, 
western Labrador, originally developed by the Iron Ore Company of Canada, have 
been the subject of intensive work. In the summer of 2006 we carried out a drilling 
programme on most of the deposits that are part of the initial production plan. This 
was supported by trenching and metallurgical testwork, a positive external engineering 
review of the railroad, the commencement of environmental baseline studies required 
as part of upcoming project permit applications and ongoing discussions with First 
Nations, which should lead to Memoranda of Understanding and subsequently to 
Impact Benefits Agreements.  
This work culminated in the production of an initial feasibility study which 
demonstrated the viability of our proposed Schefferville Project. As a consequence of 
this study and the summer 2006 exploration programme, and by committing to put 
the properties into production, the group now holds a 77.5% joint interest in the 
Schefferville Project, before the proposed Initial Public Offering.  
We have continued to liaise with the Department of Mineral Resources of the 
Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, and with the relevant Federal authorities, 
with regards to the permits required to commence construction and development. 
 Anglesey Mining plc 2  
These discussions have been positive and no major impediment to the grant of these 
permits is anticipated. 
The respected Canadian consultant SNC-Lavalin was retained to review the 
development options for the Schefferville Project and has done so in accordance with 
Canadian National Instrument 43-101. SNC generally conclude that the historical 
resources of 100 million tons of high grade hematite lump and sinter fine ore on 
which the initial feasibility study was based can be brought to a modern compliant 
standard with a relatively limited confirmatory drilling programme. 
The world market for iron ore continues to grow strongly in both volume and price 
and there is considerable interest in iron ore deposits of the size and style of our 
Schefferville Project, particularly where these can be brought to production rapidly 
and with relatively low capital cost, both of which are the case at Schefferville.  
In conjunction with Canaccord Capital Corporation, the company undertook a review 
of alternative markets that might be appropriate to raise monies to finance the future 
development of the Schefferville Project. Following this review it was determined that 
the Canadian market is more likely to provide a higher valuation of the Labrador 
properties and greater access to the funds required for development to commence 
commercial production. In addition, the board believes that a Canadian listed public 
company with locally based management carrying out operations in Labrador will 
provide greater likelihood of success for these activities. 
A preliminary prospectus was filed with the Ontario Securities Commission on 12 
September 2007. These proposals must be approved by Anglesey's shareholders and 
we will issue a circular describing them in detail and calling an EGM.  
We believe that a successful Initial Public Offering in Toronto will transform the 
Schefferville Project and, subject to funding, lead to a fast track to production and 
cashflows, resulting in a significant re-appraisal of the value of our activities. 
Parys Mountain - copper-zinc-lead-silver-gold 
Following the successful Garth Daniel drilling programme in the previous financial 
year, we conducted a review of the development alternatives for Parys Mountain and 
as a result carried out a detailed drilling programme in the White Rock area during the 
year with successful results. A JORC-compliant resource estimate of the White Rock 
area resulting from this and earlier drilling was published at the beginning of 2007.  
The results of this programme met all our expectations and have led us to develop a 
fundamental change to the development plan for the Parys Mountain Mine. We now 
intend to mine White Rock using decline access as Phase I of the production plan. 
This will minimise the initial capital and will accelerate the time scale to first 
production. The positive cash generated from White Rock will be utilised for Parys 
Mountain Phase II.  
We commissioned a Scoping Study from Micon International Co Limited, published 
in July 2007, on the development and production plan for White Rock. The study 
confirms that a viable five year operation could be conducted on White Rock alone 
and would create the necessary positive cash-flow, including all the costs of a 500 
tonnes per day processing plant. 
In Phase II the treatment capacity of the processing plant will be expanded and the 
existing shaft, head-frame and winder will be refurbished and connected to the 
decline. This will enable expanded production from the larger and higher grade 
Engine Zone to commence coincident with the end of White Rock production. In 
 Anglesey Mining plc 3  
Phase III we will extend the mine to the east into the Garth Daniel and deep Engine 
zone areas, potentially with a further increase in production rate.  
We have now commenced preparatory work ahead of driving the White Rock decline 
and expect that excavation activities will commence prior to the end of 2007. The 
capital cost of the development of White Rock is estimated at  15 million and we are 
in discussions on the alternatives for raising this financing. 
The Parys Mountain project benefits from existing valid planning permissions for the 
planned operations; from the high level of infrastructure already in place; from the 
extensive exploration and planning work that has been carried out in the past; from 
strong local and national government support; and from continuing strength in all the 
commodities that we will produce. Given these benefits and the revised development 
plan, we believe that the White Rock mine at Parys Mountain should be in production 
in 12 to18 months from commencement of the decline development.  
Financial results 
With metal prices at their current and forecast levels, the board considers that the 
impairment provisions against the carrying value of the Parys Mountain property 
made in previous years are no longer appropriate and, in accordance with the relevant 
accounting standards, they have been reversed in this year's financial statements, 
resulting in a credit to the Profit and Loss account of  7,200,000. Our administrative 
expenses this year were  388,894 compared with  242,243 last year, the increase 
being due to higher levels of activity and additions to the payroll. Overall we are 
reporting a profit this year of  6,762,751 compared with a loss last year of  517,405. 
The group has no revenues from the operation of its properties.  
Outlook 
We are now at a most exciting stage in the history of the company. Under the 
direction of Bill Hooley, our chief executive, Parys Mountain is poised to commence 
development after an extended period and Labrador Iron is now also in a position 
where it too should soon be set on the road to early production. 
The outlook for all the commodities that we will be producing remains very strong, 
driven primarily by continuing demand from the growth economies of China and 
India and other developing nations in Asia. Our decision to operate in stable political 
environments will ensure the continuity of our tenure and place us in a strong 
position relative to many of our fellow resource companies. 
We have received good institutional support for plans with the recent placement and 
we expect this to be reinforced both when the Labrador IPO is brought to market 
and when we raise additional funding for Parys Mountain. 
We believe that the value of our assets and our current levels of activity are now 
beginning to be recognised by the equity market and we confidently expect that this 
position will be further strengthened as all of these developments are brought to 
fruition. 
 
John F. Kearney  
Chairman 
18 October 2007 
 Anglesey Mining plc 4