 Chairman's statement 2013 
 
 
Anglesey Mining plc 2 
Chairman's Statement 
 
In a year of difficult trading conditions in all resource sectors I am pleased to report that the company is 
weathering the storm and will see through the remainder of this current downturn. At Labrador Iron which 
we formed in 2007 and is today Canada's only independent iron ore producer, the significant variability in 
iron ore prices during the second half of 2012 resulted in large reported losses and put a drain on the cash 
resources of that company. However four major funding events in late 2012 and early 2013 provided LIM 
with the necessary capital to enable it to enter its third year of mining operations which I am happy to 
report is now well under way. At Parys Mountain, following last summer's successful exploration 
programme, we are taking the opportunity to review all the information available on the project and to 
consider the best alternatives whilst minimising expenditure at the current time. 
All mining stocks are suffering in the current marketplace and both Labrador Iron and Anglesey Mining have 
been part of this severe downturn. We hope that as LIM demonstrates its current production capability, 
and with the benefit of a price protection programme in place to guard against any repeat of last year's 
low prices, that the market will recognise the inherent value in LIM which should be reflected in the 
Anglesey share price. 
There is undoubtedly pressure on commodity prices largely as a result of some reduction in the growth 
rate in China, however we do not support the notion that there will be a return to the levels of the early 
years of this century. Iron ore prices have come off from their all-time highs but remain relatively strong 
and it is far from certain that the forecast increase in supply will actually occur since many of the 
previously announced large undeveloped projects are likely to find financing impossible to obtain. 
Meanwhile base metals, which have slipped from their highs, also remain firm and with limited new 
production coming on line or even planned, we look for significant improvement in the middle term. 
Our strategy therefore is to weather the current turbulent times, to retain cash where possible, to 
maintain our holding in Labrador Iron which today has a market value of almost  7 million and to leave 
ourselves ready and able to move forward when metal prices and capital markets return to more positive 
territory. 
Labrador Iron 
Following the initial production year in 2011, 2012 began well and production was on target to meet the 
target of 2.0 million tonnes of saleable product. However a major downturn in iron ore prices in August 
and September which saw spot prices for 62% Fe CFR China fall from around $120 per tonne to $85 per 
tonne in just four weeks left LIM in a vulnerable position in which it had no alternative but to cut all 
expenditure and curtail some production. Nevertheless iron ore sales for the year amounted to just over 
1.5 million tonnes and LIM reported revenues from mining operations of C$96 million.   
Last year was also very successful on the exploration front with new techniques permitting more and 
better drilling to be carried out for lower costs, and all this new information led to significant increases in 
compliant resources particularly on the Houston and Malcolm deposits, which will form the core of the 
next ten years production, and on the development of a maiden 620 million tonne taconite deposit close 
to LIM's current infrastructure. 
After the financial difficulties in late 2012 it was necessary to rebuild the LIM balance sheet and I am 
pleased to report that very encouraging support was received from the market place and $C59 million was 
raised in two equity issues in late 2012 and early 2013. LIM also entered into a strategic agreement with 
Tata Steel Canada regarding cooperation on a number of matters including the sale of a 51% interest in the 
Howse property which will result in the payment to LIM of $C30 million on completion. After the end of 
the financial year LIM also received a $35 million prepayment from RB Metalloyd as part of a two year iron 
ore sales agreement.  
LIM began its third year of mining operations in late March 2013 and is now in full swing. Sales of between 
1.75 and 2.0 million tonnes of iron ore are targeted this year. To guard against what now looks to be an 
annual dip in iron ore prices during the autumn period, LIM has put in place a price protection programme 
for 825,000 tonnes of iron ore at a floor price of $105 per tonne. 
Parys Mountain 
During the summer of 2012 we completed a successful exploration drilling programme at Parys Mountain. 
This work demonstrated that mineralisation at economic grades exists across at least 1.5 kilometres from 
the Morris Shaft area in the west of the property to the Pearl engine house area in the east. This work was 
followed by the production by Micon International of a JORC compliant resource estimate on the majority 
of the known and readily reachable development targets. Micon had produced a JORC resource for White  Chairman's statement 2013 
 
Anglesey Mining plc 3 
 
 
Rock previously but this new estimate also brought both the Engine zone and Garth Daniel resources into a 
modern compliant basis compared to the historical estimates upon which the company had been reliant 
since 1990. 
Micon had also made progress on a scoping study for Parys Mountain but given the current market 
conditions the company has decided to have a fundamental review of the technical and geological 
information available and to evaluate all the options for moving this project forward to production.  
In July 2012 a net profits royalty on production from Parys Mountain was bought out and cancelled and 
outstanding advance royalty payments of  759,680 were settled for a cash payment of  630,000 and the 
issue of 2,000,000 ordinary shares. Cancellation of that royalty will improve both the economics and the 
ability to finance the Parys Mountain project. 
We hold freehold title to the area of Parys Mountain that contains all our known resources and 
infrastructure. We have very low on-going cash commitments and these remain well within the current 
financial capability of the company, allowing us the benefit of time to make assessment without any risk of 
loss of resources. 
We continue to closely watch base metal markets both from a price perspective as well as from materials 
supply view. We remain confident that the zinc copper and lead in Parys Mountain will improve firstly in 
relative demand which will flow through to higher prices in the medium term and we will be well prepared 
to take advantage of this at the appropriate time. 
Financial Results 
There was a large loss after tax of  31,451,398 for the year ended 31 March 2013. This compared to a 
profit of  19,386,555 reported in 2012. In both years a major factor was non-cash charges in respect of the 
accounting treatment of deemed disposals in LIM. These arise when LIM issues new shares to third parties; 
in 2012 they resulted in profits and in 2013 in losses due to the lower share prices at which these issues 
were made in that year. In addition, LIM reported significant operating losses in 2013 as well as 
amortisation charges and write downs in intangible assets.  
During the year the group's holding in LIM was diluted from 26% to 15% as a result of the new share issues 
by LIM. Consequently LIM ceased to be treated as an associate for accounting purposes and an accounting 
loss of  16,149,722 was recorded on recognition of the associate as an investment accounted for at fair 
value through profit and loss. There was a further non-cash loss of  3,791,439 over the period following 
the reclassification as an investment at fair value.  
The group's cash balance at 31 March 2013 was  670,345 (2012 -  3,150,644). The decrease from last year 
was due to the investment in LIM shares in November 2012 for  950,927, the buy-out of the Parys net 
profits royalty, Parys development expenditures and administrative expenses. 
The group's operating and administrative costs for the year were  398,428 (2012 -  396,807). 
Ian Cuthbertson 
It would be remiss of me not to mention that Ian Cuthbertson will be leaving us at the end of July. Ian has 
been with Anglesey since its flotation in 1988 and has been much involved with all the developments with 
their highs and lows since then. During this time he has held the posts of accountant, company secretary 
and finance director. However this does not tell the full story and during this 25 year period of service he 
has been a central part, and indeed for much of that time the major part, of the management of the 
company. Ian will still be available give us on-going advice using his extensive knowledge of the history and 
activities of the company - we wish him the very best of good fortune in his retirement and in the years to 
come.   
Outlook 
We are in a period in which patience will be a great virtue. We certainly need to see how LIM develops 
during 2013 but with its current year production plan well under way and with autumn prices protected we 
remain comfortable that an improvement is ahead. At Parys Mountain we do have the benefit of time if 
needed and we will take that opportunity to develop the most rational approach available under current 
and predicted price and market scenarios. 
John F. Kearney 
Chairman 
23 July 2013 