 6 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Directors' Report: Business Review
2008 was a solid operational year for
the Group. Production of copper, at
343 kt of copper cathode equivalent
from our own mines, was slightly
above 2007 and the target we set at
the start of the year. Our growth and
diversification initiatives included the
acquisition of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the
largest power plant in Kazakhstan, and
an increase in our holding in ENRC PLC
to 26.0%
Vladimir Kim Chairman
Chairman's Statement www.kazakhmys.com 7
2008 summary
2008 was a solid operational year for the Group. Production of
copper, at 343 kt of copper cathode equivalent from our own
mines, was slightly above 2007 and the target we set at the start
of the year. Our growth and diversification initiatives included
the acquisition of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power plant in
Kazakhstan, and an increase in our holding in ENRC PLC to 26.0%.
Good progress was made on the pre-feasibility studies at our
major growth projects.
External conditions changed significantly during the year as the
problems that started in the financial markets spread to the wider
economy. These changes were seen in the copper price, which
started the year at $6,666 per tonne, before reaching a high of
$8,985 per tonne at the beginning of July. Copper finished the
year at $2,902 per tonne. Despite solid production and sales, the
reduction in price had a direct impact on revenues. Volatile input
prices also served to squeeze profit margins.
Strategy
Our long-term strategy remains the same as that set at our
Listing in 2005 - to optimise the performance of our assets,
deliver our growth projects and to take advantage of natural
resource opportunities in Central Asia. The strategy is being
applied flexibly, to take account of current conditions. During
2009 the primary focus will be on the first part of our strategy,
asset optimisation. The aim is to conserve cash and ensure
the long-term growth and success of the Group.
We will reduce our capital expenditure in 2009 and will cut back
or suspend production at operations where margins do not justify
extraction of resources in the current price environment. This will
reduce copper output in 2009 but help maintain profit margins
and preserve our resources. We have begun a change management
programme within our Copper Division. This programme will aim
to further improve production techniques and reduce costs in
addition to those reductions already identified.
Funding
Balance sheet strength and credit availability have become areas
of focus across stock markets. At the end of the year, we reported
cash and deposits of $572 million plus an undrawn committed
credit facility of $200 million. Net debt was $1,628 million at
the year end.
8.5 kt of copper product has been hedged for each month in
2009. This is an action that the Group has not previously taken.
These transactions will offset the negative impact if copper prices
fall below $3,000 per tonne, at the cost of sacrificing upside
should the price rise above $4,000 per tonne.
Growth projects and diversification
The major copper growth projects, at Aktogay and Boschekul,
have made good progress over the year, supported by Fluor
as consulting engineers. Both projects will complete their
pre-feasibility studies in the first half of 2009, at which point
they will be evaluated by the Board. Neither project will incur
significant cash expenditure in the current year.
We increased our holding in ENRC PLC and are now their largest
shareholder with a 26.0% stake compared to 14.6% at the start
of the year. Most of the increase resulted from a share swap with
the Government of Kazakhstan, resulting in the Government
becoming a shareholder of Kazakhmys, with an interest of 15%.
ENRC is a major mining company, listed in London, but operating
in Kazakhstan. They have a different suite of metals from us,
producing iron ore, aluminium and ferrochrome. Longer term
we believe that this holding diversifies our earnings and presents
us with strategic options.
In May 2008 we completed the purchase of the Ekibastuz GRES-1
power station. Combined with our three existing power plants,
we are now the largest power provider in Kazakhstan, with over
20% of the country's generating capacity. Lower economic activity
may impact demand in the Kazakh power market in 2009, but the
power market is typically more stable than commodity markets
and our low-cost position is attractive. Longer term, we believe
that the power sector has significant potential, with the need for
higher tariffs to allow capital investment in power plants and
infrastructure. Ekibastuz, with its significant dormant capacity,
is central to the future growth of the Kazakh power market.
In October 2008 we announced that we had signed a
memorandum of understanding with Samruk-Energy JSC, the
Government investment company which invests in energy related
projects. The intention is to consider a strategic partnership and
joint ownership of Ekibastuz. Such a partnership could bring benefits
of access to additional coal resources and greater integration with
Kazakhstan's energy development and transmission programmes.
Should any agreement be reached, it will be subject to appropriate
regulatory and shareholder approval.
2009 sales
In 2009 our contracted sales of copper cathode, our principal
product, should again be evenly split between Chinese and
European markets. The successful completion in January 2009
of the annual sales contracts with our customers, for material to
be delivered in 2009, indicates that there is still demand for our
products even in the current slow economic environment. These
contracts account for around 80% of anticipated production and
are backed by some key long-term relationships. I should like
to thank our customers for their continued support.
Corporate and social responsibility
The success of our Group is principally due to the efforts of our
employees and on behalf of the Board I would again like to thank
them for their support over the year. In this challenging environment
we have agreed with the Government of Kazakhstan to try to limit
Directors' Report: Business Review
Our long-term strategy remains
unchanged:
  to optimise the performance
of our assets;
  to deliver our growth projects;
  to take advantage of natural
resource opportunities in
Central Asia.
For 2009 our primary focus is on
asset optimisation.
Our strategy 8 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Directors' Report: Business Review
Chairman's Statement continued
redundancies that might arise from production cutbacks. We
believe this is in the best interests, and long-term success,
of the Group and will help social stability.
It is disappointing to report that there has been an increase to 32
fatalities in 2008, compared to 23 in 2007. 2009 has had a poor
start to the year, with 8 fatalities to date. Several initiatives are
being developed, including the completion of the training school
in Satpayev and the appointment of several new specialists.
Health and safety remains a key area of concern for the Board.
We continue to play a major role in the communities around us
and in 2008 spent $121 million on community related projects.
We have also carried out some major environmental initiatives,
including the commissioning of an acid plant in Balkhash, which
will reduce emissions. At Ekibastuz we will be investing around
$160 million on precipitators at the eight turbines, which again
will improve air quality.
The Board
In November we announced the appointment of Daulet
Yergozhin to the Board, as a representative of the Government,
following the share swap mentioned above. In December
we sadly announced the death of Jim Rutland, our Senior
Independent Director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jim played a vital part in helping to prepare Kazakhmys for
its IPO and, since Listing, in ensuring the Group's compliance
with International Financial Reporting Standards and with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
On 5 March 2009 we announced the appointment of Peter
Hickson as a non-executive Director and we will appoint a further
non-executive Director in due course, to maintain the balance
of the Board.
Share price and dividends
As noted above, metal prices were higher in the first part of the
year and this was reflected in a dividend paid at the half year of
14.0 US cents per share. Given the subsequent reduction in prices,
the continued market uncertainty and the emphasis on conserving
cash, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final
dividend. This is in keeping with the dividend policy set at
the time of Listing, to take account of the profitability of the
business and cash requirements. Since Listing we have returned
$1,349 million to shareholders, including a special dividend of
$235 million and a share buy-back programme of $391 million
commenced in 2007, when metal prices were higher.
The share price followed the trends in the copper price over
the year, which is to be expected, as 98% of EBITDA from
managed businesses excluding special items came from the
Copper Division. The share price was 231 pence at the end
of 2008, compared to a high of 1,943 pence on 19 May 2008.
At 27 March 2009, our holding in ENRC PLC was worth
$2.17 billion representing 73% of our total market capitalisation.
Outlook
We believe that the long-term outlook for copper is positive.
A significant number of new projects around the world are now
unlikely to be delivered, which will reduce future supply and put
upward pressure on prices. On the demand side, the wide range
of uses for copper gives it a strong base for long-term growth.
The Power Division also has excellent potential, with a clear need
for capacity and tariffs to rise in Kazakhstan. Our strategy remains
unchanged and Kazakhstan and Central Asia continue to offer
exceptional opportunities in the development of resources.
2009 will undoubtedly be a challenging year and in the current
environment we are committed to pursuing our strategy and
business management in a prudent manner, to conserve cash
and to ensure that we are positioned to deliver value to all
of our stakeholders in the future.