 6 6 Keller Group plc C Ch ha ai ir rm ma an n' 's s  S St ta at te em me en nt t
 T Th hi is s  t th hi ir rd d  c co on ns se ec cu ut ti iv ve e
y ye ea ar r  o of f  e ex xc ce el ll le en nt t
g gr ro ow wt th h  r re ef fl le ec ct ts s  n no ot t
o on nl ly y  t th he e  s st tr re en ng gt th h  
o of f  o ou ur r  m ma ar rk ke et ts s  b bu ut t
a al ls so o  t th he e  s su uc cc ce es ss sf fu ul l
e ex xe ec cu ut ti io on n  o of f  o ou ur r
s st tr ra at te eg gy y   
Dr Michael West, Chairman
I am pleased to report a record set of
results, which build on the successes
of the previous two years. This third
consecutive year of excellent growth,
which reflects not only the strength of
our markets but also the successful
execution of our strategy, has
transformed the scale and profitability
of the Group. 
The Group reported a significant increase in
both revenue and profit, particularly from
the divisions outside of the US which now
account for 44% of total Group profit,
compared to only 28% two years ago. This
has resulted in excellent profit contributions
from a broad range of geographies.
Group revenue from continuing operations
rose by 11% to  955.1m (2006:  857.7m)
and our operating margin on the same
basis reached an all-time high of 11.2%
(2006: 10.4%). Profit before tax from
continuing operations was up 23% to
 103.2m (2006:  83.7m) and earnings per
share from continuing operations grew by
24% to 97.6p (2006: 79.0p before the
benefit of a one-off tax credit). 
Cash flow and net debt
The very strong trading result was
supported by an increase in cash
generated from operations to  117.2m
(2006:  98.3m). Net debt at the end of the
year stood at  54.5m (2006:  38.6m), after
expenditure of  34.5m on acquisitions. 
We increased capital expenditure to  48.1m
(2006:  29.4m), which enabled us to make
further progress in modernising and
expanding our equipment fleets, particularly
in those parts of the Group offering the best
growth potential.
Dividends
Last year, the Board reviewed the Group's
dividend policy and indicated that we would
increase the dividend by 15% per annum
for the foreseeable future, subject to
maintaining three times' dividend cover. 
We remain committed to this policy and
also to continuing to reinvest our cash flow
in the growth of the Group, as we have
successfully done to date. 
The Board is therefore recommending a
final dividend of 12.0p per share (2006:
11.4p) which, together with the interim
dividend paid of 6.0p (2006: 4.2p), brings
the total dividend for the year to 18.0p, an
increase of 15% on the previous year's
15.6p. The final dividend will be paid on 
30 May 2008 to shareholders on the register
at 2 May 2008.
Share buy-back programme
Given the continuing and growing strength
of the Group's balance sheet, the Board
proposes to use its existing authority to buy
back up to 5% of the Company's ordinary
shares during the remainder of 2008. 
The Directors believe that such a buy-back
programme will be earnings per share
enhancing and it will only be pursued on
this basis. In any event, the Group will retain
sufficient financial flexibility to be able to
successfully pursue its strategy and to
invest in opportunities for profitable growth.
Any shares bought back will initially be held
in treasury.
Strategy
Our strategy remains the same: to extend
our global leadership in specialist ground
engineering through both targeted
acquisitions and organic growth. 
In 2007, we made two further acquisitions:
HJ in the US and Systems Geotechnique in
the UK. The HJ acquisition gives us
expertise in the growing technology of
Continuous Flight Auger piles which is 
new to Keller in the US and further extends
our clear leadership in this market. 
The acquisition of Systems Geotechnique,
following on from the Phi acquisition in
2006, increases our presence and
broadens our product range in the UK.
We also invested heavily in the fastest-
growing parts of the Group, particularly 
in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and
Australia. This was rewarded with strong
organic growth. In addition, we continued
our expansion into new geographic regions,
with additions to our network of offices
around the world and the performance of
our first contracts in Brazil, Greece,
Romania and Vietnam.
C Ch ha ai ir rm ma an n' 's s  S St ta at te em me en nt t
D Dr r  M Mi ic ch ha ae el l  W We es st t Keller Group plc     7 7 C Ch ha ai ir rm ma an n' 's s  S St ta at te em me en nt t
O Ou ur r  m ma ar rk ke et ts s  a an nd d  c co om mp pe et ti it ti io on n
Local
Competition 
Local competition is highly fragmented comprising
many small businesses, often family-owned, with
limited equipment capacity and few (or single)
product lines.
Types of project
Standard foundations for small to medium
structures, where ground conditions are relatively
straightforward.
Keller's advantage in this segment
Our regional structure and agile organisation
enables us to compete with local players for small-
to-medium sized contracts.
We undertook around 8,500 contracts last year, of
which 85% had a value of less than  250,000.
National
(regional in larger countries such as US, Australia)
Competition 
In Europe, competition is often owned by general
contractors. In the US and Australia, these
services are usually outsourced. Independent
national competitors tend to be privately owned.
Types of project
As local markets, plus foundations for larger
structures and complex solutions for more difficult
ground conditions. 
Keller's advantage in this segment
We have a wide network of subsidiary companies
and branch offices employing local people with
knowledge of:
  national building codes
  local language and business culture
  local ground conditions
International
Competition 
Few competitors can claim to have a truly global
capability, strong financial credentials and the
ability to offer a full product range.
Types of project
Very large scale, requiring capacity or expertise
which may not be available in-country.
Often direct foreign investment, where funders or
clients choose to use contractors with whom they
have worked in other parts of the world.
Keller's advantage in this segment
Largest independent operator with a global
presence.
Able to follow known customers into new
geographic markets.
Can pool resources and expertise from around 
the globe.
In 2008, we shall continue to make strategic
progress by allocating resources to markets
which offer good growth and by taking
advantage of the opportunities presented
by our highly fragmented industry. 
Makers
In the UK, after several years of
underperformance, we have now
substantially exited our non-core Makers
business and its results have been shown
as a discontinued operation. The combined
trading losses and exit costs totalled
 14.2m before tax, in line with the guidance
previously given.
Our Employees
Some of the real challenges of the past 
few years have been to retain our best
employees who, in strong markets, have
been much in demand; and to attract and
develop others who share our priorities with
regard to safety, quality and productivity.
The recent expansion of our business has
demanded significant recruitment and skills
training, particularly of new engineers and
field operators. Most of this training is highly
specialised and requires substantial input
from our managers. They have risen to the
challenge and devised new and increasingly
effective ways of ensuring that our
employees are properly equipped to do the
excellent work we require of them. 
The hard work, commitment and long
service of our employees is not something
which we take for granted and we are as
determined as ever in our aim to provide 
a working environment in which all 
can prosper. 
Our Board
We were pleased to appoint Mr Roy
Franklin, OBE to the Board in July 2007.
Roy's appointment strengthens the Board
and brings extensive experience to Keller,
particularly with regard to international and
strategic matters. 
Mr Keith Payne, who joined the Board in
1999, stood down at the end of January
2008 and I would like to thank Keith for the
valued contribution he has made to the
Group over the years. 
Outlook
Whilst the likely impact of the current global
economic uncertainty remains unclear, we
believe that the increased scale of our
business, particularly outside of the US, gives
the Group better geographic balance and
means that we now have greater protection
against economic cycles. Furthermore, the
complementary nature of our businesses
and their increased ability to pool resources
have strengthened the Group's capacity to
participate in large-scale development
projects around the world.
The US, which still accounts for around half
of our revenue, remains our biggest market.
Here, non-residential construction, which
generates the vast majority of our US
business, is forecast to show further
modest growth in 2008
1
, although
residential is not expected to pick up for
some time. Within non-residential, public
infrastructure is likely to continue to grow at
a good pace, whilst the private sector is
expected to be broadly flat. Elsewhere, we
expect our growth markets - particularly the
Middle East and Eastern Europe - to remain
strong in the medium term. In our other main
regions, we do not foresee any significant
change in market conditions overall.
In the first few weeks of 2008, new orders,
tendering and trading have all been
encouraging. At the end of January, we 
had a record order book, with all four
regions ahead of the same time last year,
giving us a good platform for the remainder
of this year.
D Dr r  M Mi ic ch ha ae el l  W We es st t
28 February 2008
1
The American Institute of Architects Consensus
Construction Forecast, 11 January 2008 T Th ha am me es s  W Wa al ll l, ,  L Lo on nd do on n
Justin Atkinson, Chief Executive (centre)
and James Hind, Finance Director (right)
review progress on a contract at
Queenshithe Wharf, London. 
Steve Worthington, South West Region
Contracts Manager for Systems
Geotechnique (left) describes the
operations to stabilise part of the
Thames River wall.