 6 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003 Kier Group plc
Chairman's statement
Overview
I am pleased to report that Kier
Group plc has achieved another
excellent performance this year
with turnover and profit at record
levels. Our integrated business
model, the fundamentals of
which have remained unchanged
for 10 years, has provided
consistent growth in overall
profits with compound growth in
earnings per share of 23.2% per
annum over the seven years since
flotation.
Financial performance
Operating profit, including the Group's
share of joint ventures, rose 29.4% to
 33.9m (2002:  26.2m) on turnover up
4.5% at  1,445.6m (2002:  1,382.7m).
Profit before tax increased by 18.9% to
 33.3m (2002:  28.0m) and earnings per
share of 69.5p rose 15.1% (2002: 60.4p).
Profit before tax increased by 22.0% and
earnings per share by 19.2% after
adjusting for the exceptional profit of
 0.7m on the partial disposal of an
interest in a subsidiary undertaking in
2002. The cash performance has again
been excellent with a record  53.5m
generated from operating activities.
Our Construction & Services segment has
seen a modest growth in profits during the
year. Kier Regional continues to be the
contractor of choice for many of our
clients and has achieved an outstanding
performance in the year, enhanced by
profits arising on the finalisation of
accounts on a number of contracts.
However this performance was tempered
by post acquisition losses recorded within
Partnerships First, the social housing
business acquired in November 2002 as a
strategic long-term investment to take
advantage of opportunities arising from
the increasing Government spend on
social housing. In Kier National, another
Our integrated business
model... has provided
consistent growth in overall
profits...  7 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003 Kier Group plc
excellent performance achieved in our
international business was overshadowed
by losses in the UK major projects
building business, largely caused by two
contracts. In Support Services we secured
the 10-year  640m outsourcing contract
for Sheffield City Council in March 2003
and are pleased to report that it is trading
in line with expectations.
The Homes & Property divisions have
each performed strongly this year with
overall operating profits up 45.9%. Kier
Residential has enjoyed a steady demand
for its quality product and has benefited
from a full year of contribution from
Allison Homes. Our property
development business has been
transformed by the acquisition, in joint
venture, of Laing Property in April 2002.
The Board proposes a final dividend for
the year ended 30 June 2003 of 11.2p to
be paid on 9 December 2003 to
shareholders on the register at close of
business on 3 October 2003. This
dividend, when added to the interim
dividend of 5.2p totals 16.4p for the year
(2002: 14.2p) and is covered 4.2 times by
basic earnings per share of 69.5p. The
dividend represents a 15.5% increase over
that for 2002; the sixth successive year in
which the dividend has increased by 15%
or more.
In February 2003 we completed a private
placing of debt raising a total of  30.1m
in order to lengthen the maturity of our
borrowings and to provide an appropriate
structure to support the continuing
development of the Group. At 30 June
2003 the net cash position, after
borrowings, was  62.0m (2002:  46.4m)
including an advance payment in respect
of the sale of the Whitehall property
development, much of which is expected
to unwind over the next 12 months.
A combination of falling equity values and
interest rates as well as the mature nature
of our pension liability profile has resulted
in a net deficit, on an FRS 17 basis, in the
Kier Group Pension Scheme of  79.7m at
30 June 2003 (2002:  46.3m). The Group
continues to review its strategy for
providing pension benefits to all of its
employees and a number of measures
have been taken to reduce the deficit: the
final salary section of the Pension Scheme
was closed to new members on 1 January
2002 (a defined contribution arrangement
is now offered), employer's contributions
have increased by 1% of payroll ( 2.0m),
employees' contributions are increasing
by 1% and changes have been made to
early retirement terms.
The Scheme is likely to enjoy positive net
cash flows for the next nine years,
excluding the sale of investments, which
provides sufficient time in which to
establish whether the current deficit is a
transient outcome of depressed bond
yields and equity prices or whether a
more substantial response is required.
Activity in the Construction & Services
markets was strong in the year to June
2003 with Government spending on the
increase and private sector spending
slowing slightly, although still at
reasonable levels. Contract awards in our
Regional division totalled a record  760m
(2002:  670m). The order book in Support
Services benefited from securing the
 640m, 10-year building maintenance
contract for Sheffield City Council in
March 2003. There is a growing market
Pensions
Markets
for similar contracts and we believe we
are well positioned to benefit from these
opportunities.
Demand for houses in our areas of
operation continued through the second
half of the year. Consumer confidence
suffered a little during the Middle East
conflict but activity has now returned to
satisfactory levels. Scotland has been a
particularly good market with prices
continuing to increase. In the southern
area of our operations our strategy to
reduce unit size has proved successful.
The acquisition of the Laing Property
portfolio, in joint venture with the Bank of
Scotland, has increased our profile in the
property market thereby providing us with
many good opportunities. There is still a
market in property offering reasonable
returns, without undue risk, by combining
the two vital ingredients of a good tenant
and a good location.
The strategy for the Group continues to be
underpinned by our business model. As
cash continues to be generated by our
high volume, low margin construction
businesses we have continued to invest in
asset based businesses that provide
greater returns.
Growth in our Construction & Services
businesses has largely been achieved
organically, although the acquisition of
Partnerships First has contributed to
turnover growth in Kier Regional in the
year. In Kier National the strategy to
reduce risk by seeking more partnered
and negotiated work has resulted in
reduced turnover and awards. Within
Support Services the building
maintenance business continues to benefit
Strategy 8 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003 Kier Group plc
from the Government's  best value'
initiative and, with more of this work
available in the market, is expected to
achieve further growth.
The Homes & Property operations
continue to grow both organically and
from corporate acquisition. Although no
acquisitions were made in 2003 the
previous year saw two key purchases:
Allison Homes and Laing Property. Both
of these businesses have performed well
in the period since acquisition and Allison
Homes, in particular, has contributed
strongly to the results for the year.
We were pleased to be announced
preferred bidder on two further Private
Finance Initiative projects,
Hinchingbrooke Hospital and Waltham
Schools. These projects will increase our
portfolio of PFI investments to eight and
further enhance our track record in the
health and education sectors. We remain
committed to selective investment in PFI
projects.
The combination of our businesses and the
effective use of our cash resources have
resulted in a return on shareholders' funds
of 40% or more for six consecutive years.
As announced at the time of our interim
results, my previous role of Chairman and
Chief Executive has now been separated;
John Dodds has taken on the role of
Group Chief Executive from 1 May 2003
and I have retained the role of Chairman.
My focus is primarily on strategic issues
with John's on operational issues. John has
vast knowledge of the construction
industry and in-depth knowledge of Kier
and his experience has continued to
benefit the Group in this wider role.
(PFI)
The Board
Martin Scarth and David Homer retired at
the end of the financial year. I would like
to express my thanks to Martin and David
for their significant contributions to the
Group, each having developed key
businesses that have become core to the
successful performance of the Group. We
wish them both well in their retirement.
Since last year three new appointments
have been made to the Board: Dick Side,
Managing Director of the Regional
construction division; Dick Simkin,
Managing Director of the Property
division; and more recently Robert
Gregory, Managing Director of the
Residential division. While each brings
with him substantial experience within
the Group their appointments bring fresh
ideas and a new perspective to the Board
and will maintain our drive to develop the
Group.
On behalf of the Board I would like to
thank all our employees for their
commitment and contribution to the
continued success of the Group.
At  1.75bn our order books in
Construction & Services are now at record
levels. In Homes we commenced the new
year with strong order books and sales
and reservations have been maintained at
a healthy rate. Our property development
portfolio is providing us with good
opportunities.
The markets in all of our sectors remain
sound. In Construction the market is
underpinned by Government spending; in
Support Services building maintenance
work for local authorities will provide us
with opportunities; and in Homes a
combination of low interest rates and
Employees
Prospects
undersupply of houses continues to
support the levels of demand required to
meet our targets. All this, together with the
quality of our management teams, their
skills, experience and commitment,
ensure we are well placed to continue to
deliver further improved performance and
growth.
Colin Busby
Chairman
Chairman's statement continued
The combination of
our businesses and
the effective use of
our cash resources
have resulted in a
return on
shareholders' funds
of 40% or more for
six consecutive
years. 