 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
INDUSTRY BACKDROP 
In 2013, the world economy experienced a flat 
growth rate of 3%, the same as in 2012. This  
led to weak activity in the first six months of  
the year in Western Europe, China and other 
emerging economies. 
SAFETY
I have long admired the commitment of our people at  
Anglo American and the considerable changes they have 
implemented to help us achieve  zero harm' across the entire 
organisation. I am therefore personally saddened when I am 
told of our people losing their lives at our operations. In 2013, 
14 people lost their lives on company business, four of 
whom died following a major geological event at the 
now-divested Amap  iron ore operation in Brazil, with a 
further two still missing. With a rigorous eye on the progress 
to zero harm, a further decline in lost-time injuries was 
achieved, while the great majority of our sites remain fatality-
free. I speak for the whole Board in expressing our sympathy 
for those who have been bereaved and I wish to reassure all 
our stakeholders that we will strive unremittingly to achieve 
our goal of an incident-free workplace.
CAPITAL PROJECTS
As we enter 2014, the Minas-Rio iron ore project is now  
84% complete and, while risk remains in such a vast project, 
I am pleased to report that it remains on target for first ore  
on ship at the end of 2014, and within the expected capital 
budget. Its completion will ease our capital commitments 
from 2015 onwards and should also enhance our free cash 
flow. The Board continues to exercise discipline and scrutiny 
of costs around capital expenditures - be it  stay in business' 
or  expansionary'.
DIVIDEND
The focus on increasing free cash flow from operational 
efficiency and cash-saving initiatives is a measure of  
the Board's determination to protect our dividend to 
shareholders until higher sustainable free cash flow  
is generated.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 53 cents 
per share, to maintain a total dividend of 85 cents for the 
year. That we were able to do so during a period when 
substantial expenditure was being incurred on major capital 
projects underlines our confidence in the business and its 
ability to keep returns to our shareholders competitive with 
those of our peer group.
A COMPANY THAT LIVES OUT ITS VALUES
One of the things that attracted me to Anglo American  
some 4  years ago was that it was known as a company  
that has always had a social conscience, which endeavours 
to live out its values. Within the ranks of natural resource 
companies, Anglo American has invariably been at the 
forefront in engaging with stakeholders and with civil society 
more broadly. 
The global mining industry encountered considerable 
challenges, and for much of the year it experienced 
lacklustre demand and falling prices for most commodities 
- exacerbated by persistent above-inflation cost pressures, 
labour disputes and low productivity. 
ANGLO AMERICAN'S STRATEGIC RESPONSE
Against this backdrop, Anglo American faced its share of 
operational challenges as we continued to restructure our 
Platinum business, pursue the turnarounds of copper in 
Chile, the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa and the 
flagship Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana. A recovery 
plan was also put in place at Nickel following the need to 
rebuild the two new furnaces at Barro Alto.
April saw a smooth and professional transition from 
Cynthia Carroll to Mark Cutifani as our new chief executive. 
Since that time, Mark and his new top management team 
have worked closely with our Board in finalising an agreed 
Group strategy and clear targets - Driving Value. At its  
heart we aim to shift the Group to achieve at least a 15% 
attributable return on capital employed by 2016, and place  
it on a sounder footing to deliver sustainable returns into  
the future. It will involve cost reductions on a range of fronts, 
controlled expenditure on our pipeline of new projects, 
withdrawing from some longer-term future projects (as we 
have done with Pebble in Alaska), and being ready to exit 
those businesses that cannot achieve the target returns. 
Mark, as the industry recognises, is a  miner's miner' who 
brings his decades-long experience of mining at the sharp 
end with a relentless focus on improving the operational 
performance of all our assets, while also redesigning the 
organisation to be more effective and efficient.
The Board is heartened by the improving trend in 
operational performance during the second half, which  
has contributed to the delivery of a creditable financial 
performance, ahead of budget.
Sir John Parker
The Board has 
recommended 
a final dividend 
of 53 cents  
per share, to 
maintain a 
dividend of  
85 cents for  
the year.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Our chief executive, Mark Cutifani, is totally committed  
to living out Anglo American's social values. He has  
recently played a major role in engaging with the Catholic 
Church and the Kellogg Innovation Network to look at how 
mining companies, which can be key development players, 
can come together with their stakeholders in focusing  
on the shared purpose of creating sustainable value  
long after a mine's gates close for the last time. I am also  
proud that Anglo American's sustainable development 
performance has been recognised by both the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index 2013 and the Carbon Disclosure 
Project's Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership 
Index. Furthermore, our dedicated corporate social 
investment (CSI) arm in South Africa, the Chairman's Fund, 
was recognised by Trialogue, a knowledge leader in the CSI 
field, for the ninth consecutive time, for its excellence in 
being a true partner in development.
BOARD RENEWAL
I regard it as a prime responsibility of a chairman to be 
looking continually to refresh and strengthen the Board  
of directors. During the period from August 2009, when  
I became chairman, and the AGM in April 2014, there will 
have been a complete change in non-executive directors.  
I consider our current Board to have the right mix of talent, 
with the appropriate bandwidth of skills and experience.  
This necessarily extends beyond mining experience on  
the Board and in our Group Management Committee to 
encompass such fields as major project management, 
engineering, finance, healthcare, corporate leadership  
and global business experience.
As well as the change of chief executive leadership, several 
changes took place within the ranks of the non-executive 
directors. At the AGM in April 2013, Peter Woicke stood 
down from the Board and Jack Thompson replaced him  
as chairman of the Safety and Sustainable Development 
(S&SD) Committee. 
Byron Grote, who has spent more than 30 years in the 
extractives industry, also joined the Board at the last  
AGM, and he will take over the chairmanship of the Audit 
Committee from David Challen who is standing down at  
the forthcoming AGM. I would like to take this opportunity  
to thank David for his utmost professionalism in this 
demanding role and his exceptional and dedicated  
service to the Board in general.
Sir CK Chow also retires as a director at the 2014 AGM  
and I wish to acknowledge the important contribution he  
has made to our deliberations, particularly as a member  
of the Remuneration and Nomination committees.
In July, we appointed Mphu Ramatlapeng to the Board and 
to the S&SD Committee. Mphu brings to our team a great 
deal of international board and governmental experience in 
both the public and private health sectors.
Jim Rutherford joined the Board in November and has  
been appointed to the S&SD Committee. He has more  
than 25 years' experience in investment management and 
investment banking, both as an institutional investor and 
analyst. He brings to the Board considerable knowledge  
of the capital markets as well as a deep strategic 
understanding of the mining industry.
Most recently, in January 2014, Judy Dlamini, a former 
medical practitioner and occupational-health specialist  
who now chairs a leading South African pharmaceuticals 
company, became a director and a member of the Audit 
Committee. Judy has been a non-executive director on a 
major South African platinum board for nine years and  
has extensive South African business experience.
I am pleased to report that by the end of this year's AGM 
25% of our Board will be female, which is ahead, in time, 
of the aspirational 2015 targets of the Davies Report.
BOARD SUPPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
Although 2013 was a testing year for management,  
I believe that the strategic debate between the Board and  
the executive following the appointment of Mark Cutifani  
as chief executive is helping to lay the foundations for a  
real transformation in the performance of our Group. We  
have turned the spotlight on enhancing the efficiency  
of our operations, with the focus on improving day-to-day 
performance, stringent cost control and capital  
discipline. On the back of Mark's Driving Value recovery  
programme, a number of assets are already showing 
performance improvements.
Anglo American is now on a journey to emerge as a 
revitalised company over the next two to three years.  
The Board has lent its full support to Driving Value and  
the initiatives and changes Mark Cutifani has put in  
place to bring this about. 
OUR PEOPLE
Despite the challenges of change that Driving Value 
inevitably brings, I sense our people are enthused and  
up for the challenge of returning Anglo American to being  
a company that is respected for its performance, along  
with its values.
I want to express my sincere appreciation to all employees 
for their daily commitment to constant improvement.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2013 Strategic report, from pages 2-91, was  
reviewed and approved by the Board of directors on  
13 February 2014.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
03
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013