 4 | Kleeneze Annual Report 2005
Overview
During the year ended 28th April 2005 
we have significantly re-shaped the Group
to become a home shopping specialist,
selling across three channels: Catalogue
Home Shopping, Internet Retailing and
Television Shopping, using our core skills 
of consumer marketing, product sourcing
and next day delivery. We have achieved
this through the launch of Kleeneze
Europe in the Netherlands, the
acquisitions of I Want One of Those.com
Limited (IWOOT ) and Kitbag Sports
Limited (Kitbag ), and the launch of
eeZee tv LLP (eeZee tv ), our joint
venture television shopping channel
broadcasting on Sky Channel 659.
To reflect the re-shaping of the 
Group into a home shopping specialist,
we are recommending to shareholders 
that Kleeneze plc be re-named European
Home Retail plc effective from the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM ) 
on 28th September 2005.
The first step in the creation of the 
newly focused Group was the September
2004 launch of Kleeneze Europe in the
Netherlands. This is our first operation 
in continental Europe and trading has
begun well with 2,000 distributors at 
the end of April. The growth in distributor
numbers in the Netherlands was
accompanied by an increase in distributor
numbers in the UK and Ireland where the
downward trend over the last 18 months
was reversed in the second half of the
year such that the number of active
distributors at the end of April was
13,524 (2004: 13,397).
On 25th October 2004 we acquired IWOOT
for  6.0 million in cash to be paid over a
three year period plus performance related
deferred consideration of up to  4.65 million,
payable over three years. IWOOT is the
number one visited site in its sector
(source: Hitwise), selling gifts, gadgets and
lifestyle accessories on its award-winning
website www.iwantoneofthose.com.
We commenced live broadcasting of eeZee 
tv on 1st March 2005. eeZee tv provides
both entry into the fast-growing television
shopping market and another route to
source and develop new products for the
Kleeneze network.
On 1st April 2005 we acquired Kitbag 
for  7.2 million in cash plus 1.3 million
shares in Kleeneze plc. Kitbag is a leading
internet retailer of sports and fitness
merchandise through www.kitbag.com.
Kitbag also has long term contracts with
leading football clubs for the provision of
their online and mail order sales in the UK
and certain other territories. The football
clubs include Manchester United, Chelsea
and Barcelona.
These acquisitions enable us to develop 
a range of products that can be sold
across all of our distribution channels. 
This completes the virtuous circle of a
product's life beginning on the internet,
migrating to television shopping, then
retailed through Kleeneze's catalogues. 
Against the background of a significant 
fall in hamper volumes at Farepak in 
April 2005 we took the decision to close
production of hampers in Swindon and
agreed a three year outsourcing contract.
We have been working hard to reduce 
the fixed cost base of Farepak for the 
last two years. This action marks a major
step forward in this process, freeing
management to focus on the marketing 
of both the savings club business 
and our nascent third party contract
voucher business.
Results for the year
Turnover from continuing operations for 
the year was up 10.7% to  175.9 million
(2004:  158.9 million) including 
 5.3 million from acquisitions during 
the year. Excluding acquisitions, turnover
was up 7.3%. 
Operating profit from existing operations
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was  7.7 million (2004:  7.9 million)
excluding losses of  0.6 million from
acquisitions during the year. 
Profit before tax from continuing
operations before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items fell to  7.0 million
(2004:  8.2 million), principally due to 
the start-up losses from our new joint
venture television shopping business,
eeZee tv, where our share of losses was
 0.8 million (2004: nil) in the first six 
months of trading.
Profit after tax was  4.8 million 
(2004: loss  2.7 million). Profits of 
 1.4 million were generated on the
disposal of shares in Premier Direct 
Group plc and a surplus property. 
These were offset by  0.5 million incurred 
in closing production at Farepak; 
 0.3 million of goodwill amortisation;
 0.8 million of start-up costs in the
Netherlands and Kleeneze TV;  0.3 million
of restructuring costs across the Group
following the acquisitions made during
the year and other costs of  0.5 million.
There was also a tax credit of  1.1 million.
Basic earnings per Ordinary share were 
10.21 pence (2004: loss 5.76 pence).
The Group generated cash from 
continuing operations of  3.2 million
(2004:  6.2 million), after the cash flow
relating to exceptional costs. Following
expenditure of  13.1 million on
acquisitions during the year, including 
the investment in eeZee tv, the Group 
had a cash outflow before financing of
 9.3 million (2004: inflow  4.8 million). 
Chairman's Statement Kleeneze Annual Report 2005 | 5
During the year we significantly re-shaped the
Group to become a home shopping specialist
and we are recommending that the Group 
be re-named European Home Retail plc in
September 2005.
Net debt at 28th April 2005 rose to 
 27.0 million (2004:  11.2 million)
including  5.7 million of discounted loan
notes issued to the vendors of IWOOT. 
At 28th April 2005 the Group's net
liabilities decreased to  7.5 million 
(2004:  12.8 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final
dividend of 2.23 pence per Ordinary share 
(2004: 2.0 pence), which together with the
interim dividend of 1.07 pence per Ordinary
share (2004: 1.0 pence) will result in a
dividend of 3.30 pence per Ordinary share
for the year as a whole (2004: 3.0 pence),
an increase of 10%.
The dividend is payable on 3rd October
2005 to shareholders on the register 
on 15th July 2005.
The Board
Chris Hulland will be leaving the Group and
his date of departure will be determined
upon the appointment of his successor. 
He has worked for the Group in his current
capacity for 17 years and we wish him well
for the future.
Stephen Roberts has decided not to seek 
re-election and will, therefore, step down at
the close of the AGM on 28th September
2005. Stephen has been a non-executive
director for 20 years and we would like to
take this opportunity to thank him for his
very valuable contribution over that period.
Michael Johns has been invited to 
join the Board on 28th September 
2005 as a non-executive director
representing the Johnson family interests.
He is senior partner at Kirkpatrick 
& Lockhart Nicholson Graham LLP 
and is also a non-executive director 
of Merchant Retail Group plc. Michael,
aged 61, qualified as a lawyer in 1968
and specialises in corporate finance. 
The Board proposes Michael Johns for
election at the AGM. 
Nicholas Gilodi-Johnson retires by rotation
and, being eligible, is standing for re-election.
People
We appreciate that our principal assets are
our people and I would like to record my
thanks to all of them for their continued
support and hard work during the last year.
I would also like to take this opportunity 
to welcome to the Group everyone who
works for IWOOT, Kitbag and eeZee tv and
thank them for their contribution in their
first months as part of the Group.
Resolutions at the AGM
We are proposing three Resolutions 
at the AGM as Special Business. I am
summarising them below:
Resolution 9 proposes that the name of the
Company be changed from Kleeneze plc to
European Home Retail plc in order to reflect
the changed nature of the Group's activities.
Resolution 10 proposes that the Articles 
of Association be amended to continue the
limit of  60 million on the Group's borrowing
powers up to 30th April 2008. This proposal
reflects the revised financial structure of the
Group following the acquisitions that have
been made this year. The Resolution also
proposes that the limit of  250,000 on
directors' fees be increased to  350,000.
Resolution 11 proposes that the directors
be authorised to make an offer to 
purchase the issued Preference Shares 
at their nominal value of  1 per Preference
Share. This follows representation to the
Company by certain of the holders wishing
to sell their shares.
Prospects
The return to growth at Kleeneze Europe
has been driven by a combination of
increased distributor numbers and a
further increase in average sales per
retailing distributor. The acquisitions 
of IWOOT and Kitbag together with the
launch of eeZee tv will improve our ability
to source a wider range of new products
for our catalogues. This should help 
to drive further increases in Kleeneze
Europe's turnover. We will also build on 
our successful launch in the Netherlands 
with further expansion later this year.
The decision to outsource production 
of hampers at Farepak further reduces 
our fixed cost base, thereby significantly
de-risking the business in the future and
enabling us to focus more clearly on
strengthening our voucher business.
Both IWOOT and Kitbag should benefit
from the growth in internet shopping 
and we are in a strong position to take
advantage of the growth in this sector. 
At eeZee tv we are focusing on an 
offering of daily specials, the Big eeZee ,
to increase the number of viewers.
We believe that the new shape of the
Group will enable us to grow more quickly
and take advantage of the increase in the
Internet Retailing and Television Shopping
markets. Our priority in the period ahead is
to realise the potential of the acquisitions
made last year and to build on the good
start to this new financial year.
Sir Clive Thompson
Chairman
10th August 2005 I was very impressed 
with the range of 
great value, practical 
products offered in the 
Kleeneze catalogue. 
Karina Beesley
Distributor and Customer, Kleeneze
Product sourcing:
International
Kleeneze Europe sources 
a varied product range from
around the globe. The buying
and merchandising teams 
are particularly focused at
developing direct supply from
high quality Far East sources.
Sales channel:
Catalogue
Kleeneze Europe produces 
a range of catalogues that
the distributor places with the
customer. Our catalogues 
are distributed across the UK,
Republic of Ireland and 
the Netherlands.
Ordering:
Distributor
The customer places their
order with the distributor 
who in turn places their order
with Kleeneze Europe. Over
97% of distributor orders are
placed via the internet.
Fulfilment:
Distribution Centre
The order is picked and
packed from Kleeneze
Europe's new fulfilment centre
in Bristol and then dispatched
to the distributor within 
24 hours. 
Following day delivery:
Distributor
The distributor receives the
order and then delivers to 
the customer. That customer
order now carries the
additional reassurance 
of the newly awarded Office 
of Fair Trading code.