 6   KSK Power Ventur plc |  Annual Report  2010 - 11
currently on to actualize the planned long term sources i.e 
cost plus coal block supplies dedicated to the project.
Insofar as the power off take agreements related to this pro-
ject are concerned, the company persisted with efforts to 
enforce the performance of the large medium term PPA by 
the utility counterparty and this has since been upheld by 
the local regulator. The tariff for these supplies has since 
been adopted by the regulatory commission and the power 
supplies are continuing as per power purchase agreement 
(PPA). 
The Company is currently seeking an expedited processing 
of the open access permissions to commence supplies to the 
contracted industrial consumers.
2.  Significant construction progress in the 3600 MW KSK 
Mahanadi power project at Nariyara, Chhattisgarh with 
boiler drum lifting for two units having been achieved in 
recent months and hydro test targeted to be completed 
for both the units before end of the current financial year. 
With continual progress in the construction activity at this 
project site, the Company anticipates to commission these 
two units during the second half of 2012 and the balance 
units thereafter through 2013 and 2014.  We believe upon 
completion, this will be one of the largest single location 
green field projects in India and reinforce the strong project 
development capabilities of KSK.
Insofar as fuel security for this large power project is 
concerned, considerable progress has been achieved on 
Gare-Pelma Coal block that has been allotted to GIDC. 
Insofar as Morga-II of GMDC is concerned, the policy 
uncertainty on account of recent stipulations by the Ministry 
of Environment and Forests has resulted in extensive 
diligence on the project and it is anticipated that a solution 
would be offered by the Indian Government for alternative 
remedies in case Forest clearance is not provided for  
Morga-II.
I am pleased to report that this financial year 2010-11 saw 
the successful commissioning of our various planned power 
generation assets and the Group's aggregate operating 
portfolio at close to 1 GW and the wider growth opportunity 
in the Indian power sector remaining unaltered. However, 
it also witnessed one of the most turbulent times and 
volatilities in the Indian power sector during recent periods 
and associated challenges in fuel supplies, government 
policy discontinuities and the wider market environment that 
affected operational efficiencies and immediate financial 
performance of the Company in particular.  This has been 
across the energy sector in India and all peer companies are 
witnessing similar challenges.
It is our belief that these developments could be a temporary 
passing phase as the company has marshalled multiple efforts 
and strategies to deal and further strengthen the fuel security 
issues and the fast changing environment and emerge as 
one of the more stable and stronger player in the Indian 
power generation landscape. Also, the Company's effort to 
the alternative coal linkages is expected to actualize shortly 
and provide necessary impetus to margin improvements. 
Further, the fuel security of the Group's largest power 
project initiative, i.e. 3600 MW KSK Mahanadi, validates 
the Company's belief that confirmed access to fuel is 
the most important and vital driver for a sustainable and 
effective power generation business in India.
The Group's key developments during the year and in the 
recent months at the Indian subsidiaries include:
1.  Commissioning the entire 540 MW capacity of Wardha 
Power project. Unit wise commissioning has been achieved 
based on e-auction and imported coal supplies ( at almost 
double the anticipated prices) as the committed fuel sup-
plies on cost plus basis by Coal India has not actualized. 
Based on the representation from the Company, this has 
now been temporarily mitigated by the authorities through 
supplies from the common linkage pool and all efforts are 
While the power generation business in 
India has been completely delicensed, the 
dependence on government controlled sectors 
such as fuel (coal, oil and natural gas), railway 
logistics, evacuation infrastructure and other 
continue even till date. Sustainable and 
continual progress by power plant developers 
in India would require them to be innovative,  
suitably adapt to the changing situations, 
address government  policy asymmetries and 
have fl exible approach on ground for strong 
and sustainable power generation assets. 
Chairman's Statement Governance Financial Infomation Business Review
7   Annual Report  2010 - 11  |  KSK Power Ventur plc
3.  The other operating projects have demonstrated 
sustained generation with Sai Regency providing 
exceptional performance on plant load factor (PLF) and 
financial parameters during the current year. We anticipate 
that industrial customers, who have been experiencing 
extremely high alternate tariffs from local utilities, would 
find our power plant tariffs attractive and perform their 
obligations under their respective PPAs providing the much 
required sustainability to the underlying project companies.
4.  The Group's foray into hydro power generation is marked 
by significant progress - construction to commence at the 
120 MW KSK Dibbin power project and completion of the 
necessary detailed project reports besides geotechnical 
studies for the other larger hydro opportunities in the state 
of Arunachal Pradesh. The Group anticipates collaboration 
with large reputed hydro power plant developers as potential 
basis to move forward to the next stage of development of 
these large hydro initiatives.
5.  The year under review witnessed the KSK Energy 
Company stream of companies progress on various initiatives 
to support the setup of various ancillary infrastructure that 
support the power generation assets being developed by KSK 
Energy Ventures. Notable progress has been achieved in the 
water infrastructure and the mine development initiatives 
with respect to KSK Mahanadi project and the current year 
to witness significant progress in the rail infrastructure 
supporting the coal transportation needs.
6.  Despite continual business progress and sustained 
business operations of KSK Energy Ventures, the price 
performance of the Indian subsidiary on the Indian 
stock markets has not been very encouraging. While the 
management focus should and has been on the fundamental 
business, given the significant growth ahead and the 
opportunity for consolidation of holdings at these lower 
levels, the Company through its subsidiaries has announced 
an Open Offer under Indian Takeover Regulations for 
acquiring additional 20% holding in the Indian subsidiary 
i.e KSK Energy Ventures Limited. This is in addition to the 
partial increase in holding during the previous years. The 
Company anticipates that, following regulatory clearance, 
this process would be completed during the current quarter 
and will result in the Company reaching a potential share 
holding of 74.94% if the entire 20% is offered by the public 
shareholders.
7.  Another new initiative of the Group during the current 
year has been to formalize the next level of growth of 
the renewable business with more focused effort on 
wind power initiatives. Extensive effort on greenfield site 
identification and development in collaboration with 
others, the incorporation of a specific renewable subsidiary 
as well as entering of strategic framework collaboration with 
various potential wind equipment suppliers all point to the 
increasing appetite of the Group to have a substantial wind 
power generation portfolio in the next few years.
Financial Performance
The Year under review had experienced an enhanced 
overall financial performance (except for finance income 
and profit after taxes) notwithstanding the challenging 
market conditions. This performance during the current 
year has been, amongst others, due to abnormal rise in fuel 
costs, shorter machine availabilities and other constraints. 
While Gross revenue has increased from US$ 52.9 million 
to US$ 226.8 million reflecting the robust underlying 
growth, operating profits moved up disproportionately 
from US$ 23.1 million to US$ 52.5 million reflecting the 
margin squeeze primarily on account of rising fuel costs.  
The decrease in finance income from US$ 67.8 million to      
US$ 23.6 million (primarily on account of exchange gains 
during previous year) along with increasing finance costs 
on new generation assets resulted in decrease in  profit after 
tax from US$ 59.5 million to US$ 30.1 million. For further 
details on the financial performance, please refer to the 
financial review section of this Report.
Outlook
While the Indian economic growth potential and unfulfilled 
demand for power generation is expected to continue 
through the coming decade, we anticipate that in the short 
/ medium term the Indian Power sector would go through 
tumultuous times and fuel security would sway utilities 
power play. With increasing shortages of supplies from 
Coal India, we expect only Indian power generators who 
have been successful in securing their fuel supplies would 
pass through this phase successfully and infact will have an 
opportunity to consolidate their position through acquisition 
of various stranded assets of the smaller one off developers.
Infact, the effort of the Board is to ensure that the 
management continues to pursue the planned path of 
construction progress at KSK Mahanadi while pursuing the 
new development opportunities. We believe this would 
catapult the Group to close to 5 GW of operating portfolio 
by 2014 and KSK as one of the larger power developers in 
the Indian market.  
   T.L. Sankar, Chairman
   26 July 2011