 LA Fitness plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2003 6
We are pleased to present the Group's
results for the year ended 31 July 2003. 
In our interim statement we reported 
that the first half of the year had been
particularly challenging for the Group 
in the face of a significant economic
slowdown. We are encouraged therefore
to report that initiatives taken in the
second and third quarters of the financial
year are proving successful and, as a
result, the performance of the Group
strengthened as the year progressed.
Results
Turnover for the year grew by 39% to
 66.3m (2002:  47.6m). Earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA) increased by 27%
to  16.7m (before exceptional operating
items) against  13.1m in 2002 and
operating profits before exceptional
operating items increased by 12% to
 10.4m (2002:  9.3m). Increased interest
payable arising from the higher levels of
borrowings throughout the year was 
the main factor in the 8% fall to  7.2m
(2002:  7.8m) in profits before tax and
exceptional operating items. 
Before exceptional operating items, basic
earnings per share increased by 13% to
13.7p (2002: 12.1p). After exceptional
operating items, basic earnings per share
fell to 5.6p (2002: 12.1p).
Of the estate of 66 clubs, 35 clubs were
open throughout the last two years. 
Like-for-like sales from these older clubs
decreased by 2%, principally influenced 
by the performance of the non-swimming
pool clubs. Joining fees, which came
under pressure in the first half of the year
in particular, accounted for 3% (2002: 4%)
of turnover. We continue to work hard on
seeking and developing opportunities for
increasing ancillary income from our
existing clubs, in areas such as private
training, merchandising and advertising.
For the year ended 31 July 2003, income
arising from sources other than
membership subscriptions and joining 
fees grew by 27% and represented 11%
of total income.
During the year, 4 freeholds / long
leaseholds were sold and leased back. 
At the year end, the Group held a further
2 long leasehold premises which are
expected to be sold and leased back during
the first half of the current financial year.
Operations
During the year we opened 14 new clubs,
including the re-location of one of the
original non-swimming pool clubs. At the
year end the Group traded from 66 clubs,
64 of which are in the United Kingdom, 
1 in Spain and 1 in Eire. The strength of
the Group's brand and the quality of our
offering enabled us to continue to benefit
from our successful strategy of recruiting
new members prior to a club opening,
providing a solid platform for the speedy
achievement of membership capacity.
Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review
...The strength of the Group's brand
and the quality of our offering
enabled us to continue to benefit
from our successful strategy of
recruiting new members prior to 
a club opening, providing a solid
platform for the speedy achievement
of membership capacity... Membership numbers across the Group
have continued to expand at an
encouraging pace. At 31 July 2003, the
Group had 165,320 members at the 66
clubs open, compared to 129,510 at 
31 July 2002, an increase of 35,810
members (28%) in the last 12 months.
The 14 clubs that opened during the 
last 12 months have achieved highly
satisfactory membership growth,
averaging approximately 2,000 members
per club at the year end. We consider 
that member retention continues to be 
a key element driving the success of our
business and remains in line with our
expectations. The second half of the year
has seen an improvement in the demand
for new memberships with approximately
80% of these new members opting for 
an annual membership agreement. 
The majority of new members continue 
to join as a direct result of an existing
member's recommendation, a positive
acknowledgment of the quality of
customer service and facilities that 
we provide.
Exceptional Operating Charges
As we have previously indicated, the
strategy of the business is to build and
open high quality clubs which provide
swimming pools. Some of the earliest 
LA Fitness clubs do not have pools and 
are too small to offer the extensive range
of facilities that we believe are appropriate
and necessary to enable us to present
value for money and so compete
effectively in the market place.
Accordingly, one such club was closed in
the financial year and another one since
the year end. Furthermore, a third non-
pool club is scheduled to close in the first
half of the current year and 2 others are
being marketed to interested parties. 
As a result, the Group has incurred an
exceptional operating charge in respect of
an impairment of asset value and closure
costs in respect of these clubs.
As already reported, work commenced
earlier this year on the building of a
second club in Spain. Subsequently,
building works were halted after the
authorities rescinded previously granted
planning consents. As a result, the Group
has terminated its agreement to lease. 
The abortive costs of this project are
shown as an exceptional operating
charge in the profit and loss account. 
Taxation
A full provision has been made for
deferred taxation as required by FRS 19.
The tax charge, after the benefit of over-
provisions in prior years, on profits before
exceptional operating charges amounts
to 21.6% (2002: 32.6%). 
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend 
of 1.0p per ordinary share (2002: 0.8p)
payable on 1 December 2003 to
shareholders on the register on 17
October 2003. The total dividends for
the year (paid and proposed) amount to
1.44p per ordinary share, an increase of
20% over the previous year. The increased
dividend reflects the Board's confidence in
the strength and prospects of the Group. 
LA Fitness plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7
Continued overleaf LA Fitness plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2003 8
...We would like to take this
opportunity to thank all the LA
Fitness team for their continuing
hard work, commitment and
enthusiasm which has
contributed to our success to
date and will be the platform 
for our future success... LA Fitness plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9
Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review
continued
Funding 
In September 2002 our bank facilities
were refinanced when the Group put in
place a new committed five-year debt
facility of  90m, replacing the existing
facilities of  40m. The new facilities are
earmarked to be used to fund the
continuing roll-out of new club openings.
The highly competitive terms on which
we negotiated the new facilities attest to
the confidence that the banking syndicate
has in our business model.
We announced in November 2002 that
due to the economic background at that
time, we were continuing to review the
pace of our new club roll-out. As a result,
we opened fewer clubs in the year to 
31 July 2003 than originally planned and
we are likely to open no more than 6
clubs in the year to July 2004, comfortably
funded through cash flow.
At the year end, the Group had net bank
borrowings of  45.9m representing
gearing of 115% (2002: 84%).
Strategic Development
Due to the further strengthening of our
brand and increase in our critical mass, 
the Board believes that there are strategic
commercial opportunities available to the
Group and, with effect from 1 November
2003, David Turner becomes Commercial
Development Director responsible for
pursuing this potential growth area of 
the business.
People
The people who work for LA Fitness are 
its core asset and the team continues to
strengthen in depth. We pride ourselves
on the quality of recruitment, induction
and training, which continues to be
evidenced by the high retention rate of
senior staff members. It is a credit to, and
a measure of, the quality of our team that
in just four years we have managed the
growth from 15 to 66 clubs.
We would like to take this opportunity 
to thank all the LA Fitness team for their
continuing hard work, commitment and
enthusiasm which has contributed to our
success to date and will be the platform 
for our future success.
Current Trading and Prospects 
The more encouraging trading
performance in the final quarter of the
financial year has continued since the year
end. With the UK opening programmes 
of many of our competitors having 
been scaled back, there are excellent
opportunities for future development and
we consider that our area of the health
and fitness market remains far from
saturation. Our particular business model
continues to perform robustly and the
availability of quality new sites remains
strong. The Board now believes that in the
light of current trading it is appropriate to
re-examine the rate of new club openings
beyond July 2004.
We are confident in our strategy and
believe that we are well positioned once
again to grow the business and its
profitability and as a result to further
enhance shareholder value.
Peter Jacobs Fred Turok
Chairman Chief Executive
8 October 2003