 LANDKOM International PLC
06
Report and Accounts 2009
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to present the Group's 
third Annual Report.
STRATEGY OVERVIEW
The Group's long term objective remains 
unchanged: to become a profitable major 
agricultural commodity producer for the 
global foodstuff and biofuel markets 
by developing a substantial enterprise, 
using western farming techniques and 
technologies in an underdeveloped part 
of Europe and with the highest standards 
of corporate governance. 
Landkom operates in attractive growth 
markets whilst also providing a positive 
contribution to world food issues. 
The fundamentals remain the same: 
the world's population continues to grow 
and food and energy security issues are 
key business drivers.
Ukrainian black earth soil is amongst the 
best in the world for arable farming, costs 
remain lower than EU counterparts and 
demand for agricultural produce shows no 
indication of decreasing. The Group has a 
valuable land bank of over 74,000 hectares 
with the potential to increase this to over 
100,000 hectares in the short term. This land 
is now benefiting from being farmed for a 
number of years after an extended period 
of lying fallow, which will further enhance 
yields and returns. Together with the 
new management team which has 
an excellent track record in Ukraine, 
the Board is confident that the Group 
is well positioned to grow strongly and 
to take advantage of the opportunities 
in the Ukrainian agricultural market.
Landkom now has the land, the 
management team, the assets and 
the operational experience to carry 
out efficient arable farming in Ukraine. 
In addition to the strategic fundamentals, 
Landkom combines high operational 
gearing with a now competitive cost 
of production which means any rise 
in crop prices will be directly reflected 
in the bottom line.
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
The harvest of 2009 demonstrated the 
operational progress made by the Group, 
particularly as yields were comparable to 
2008 despite the prolonged country-wide 
drought. Harvested land was up significantly 
to 29,062 hectares. At the same time, direct 
operating costs per hectare, on a like for 
like basis, were down approximately 19%. 
Despite widespread financial constraints 
within the market, 21,383 hectares of winter 
crop were drilled into moist seedbeds which 
avoided the pre-winter drought-related 
NEIL BALFOUR CHAIRMAN 07
Report and Accounts 2009 LANDKOM International PLC
crop losses incurred by many other farming 
groups located further to the east of Ukraine. 
Winter crops were heavily concentrated on 
rapeseed with the balance being wheat 
and barley. Rapeseed has been the best 
performing crop in the Group's operations 
to date.
Due to the increased efficiencies which 
have been achieved during the last five 
months, the Group intends to increase its 
spring planting target from 8,000 hectares 
to approximately 18,000 hectares. This will 
bring the total hectarage available for 
harvest up to approximately 39,500 hectares, 
which would represent an increase of 36% 
on 2009. Landkom is also increasing the 
variety of crops being cultivated to de-risk 
the Group's cash flows to movements in 
price of any one crop as well as to extend 
the use of existing machinery through a 
longer, more diversified farming season.
FUNDRAISING
In March 2009, the Group completed 
an equity fundraise of $6.6 million for 
working capital purposes. Since the 
period end, the Group raised an additional 
$16.1 million. In addition to providing funds 
for crop management and 2010 spring 
planting, it has put the Group on a firmer 
financial footing.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Landkom has continued to report 
significant losses, which is disappointing. 
Losses in 2009 were driven by the failure 
to achieve good sales prices together 
with the direct operating expenses which 
were still above industry best practice. 
Good progress has been made curtailing 
expenditure which is not directly attributed 
to the growing of crops. Administrative 
expenses, excluding share option plan 
charges, fell by 62%, well ahead of the
targeted one-third reduction. Any form 
of discretionary investment expenditure 
has been put on hold and will continue 
to remain on hold until the Group begins 
to generate cash internally.
Reducing costs will continue to be a 
key focus in order to reduce the Group's 
breakeven point. Costs have continued 
to fall since the period end and operating 
costs per hectare are expected to be 
reduced by 35% in 2010 operations.
OPTIMISING LAND 
RESOURCES
The Group has been disposing of or swapping 
out small portions of logistically inefficient or 
marginal quality land to focus on quality 
land close to main operational hubs.
Management's immediate task is to profitably maximise the planting of this land 
in the shortest possible time. The quality of the farmed land will continue to improve 
through continuous sustainable farming and improving yields, year on year, 
increasing the value of the land to the Group. Neither the value of land leases, 
nor investment committed to the land is reflected on the balance sheet. The
moratorium on purchase of freehold land is expected to continue for the next year.


 LAND UPDATE
  Quality and efficiency of land is central 
to land policy and is strictly monitored 
when new land is taken.
  Over time dependence on western 
regions is to be decreased to spread 
weather risk across wider operations.
  Securing registration of current signed 
leases is an immediate priority to ensure 
Group has right to farm all land in 
land bank.
  Land bank currently includes 
74,220 hectares of signed land 
of which 53,948 is registered.
  Expectation is that the commercial value 
of leases is likely to rise as the economic 
situation improves in Ukraine. LANDKOM International PLC
08
Report and Accounts 2009
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
There has been considerable 
management change during the 
period. At the beginning of the year 
Ben Adams was appointed to the Board 
as Farming Director. In August 2009, 
Richard Spinks departed from the Group 
as Chief Executive Officer and was replaced 
on an interim basis by Stephen Pickup until 
the appointment in November 2009 of 
Vitaliy Skotsyk as Chief Executive. Since 
his appointment Vitaliy has extensively 
replaced the key Ukrainian management 
team. This swift introduction of the
new team has permitted a speedy 
implementation of management and 
operational restructuring. Vitaliy and a 
number of the new management team 
previously worked at Amaco, one of the 
largest suppliers of agricultural machinery 
and inputs in the CIS. Vitaliy has retained 
a non-executive board position with 
Amaco which secures a strong, important 
business relationship for Landkom. Since 
the period end, Ben Adams and Laurence 
Holyoake resigned from the Board and 
were replaced on the Board by new 
Non-Executive Directors John Mapplebeck 
and Tom Morrison.
Although middle management has 
been improved with the new local 
Ukrainian team, care has been taken 
to ensure the infield knowledge has been 
maintained. Local farm managers have 
remained in place and the experiences of 
the past years will continue to be built upon. 
Use of western farming techniques continues.
OUTLOOK
The Group has restructured and significantly 
enhanced its management team which 
has completed a thorough review of all 
aspects of the business and its operations. 
Further significant steps have been made 
to reduce operating costs and to achieve 
lower breakeven production levels whilst 
land quality and productivity is improving 
as the Group completes each crop cycle.
 The Group's 
management in 
Ukraine has been 
replaced by the
appointment of 
Vitaliy Skotsyk as 
Chief Executive Officer 
together with a 
number of other key 
appointments from 
within Ukraine and the 
agriculture industry.' 09
Report and Accounts 2009 LANDKOM International PLC
Landkom has its own storage capability 
for 20,000 tonnes of grain in Lviv with 
equipment for a further 20,000 tonnes 
purchased and earmarked for 
construction in Ternopil region.
Own storage is key to minimising costs and controlling the crop sales 
process especially when considering the wetter environment of 
western Ukraine or crops such as Maize which are high yielding 
and have significant drying requirements.
STORAGE UPDATE
  Western Ukraine suffers from a lack of 
modern grain silos with fast drying facilities 
required during the intensive harvest 
period. Outdated silos with slow intake 
rates cause backlogs at peak times.
  During 2009, construction of the first phase 
of the 40,000 tonne storage project 
completed. Final certification is required 
for it to become fully operational and 
able to store third party grains and 
become revenue generating.
 The Board is considering financing 
options for the medium term storage 
strategy to include owned storage 
in every operational region.
The goal now is to plant an ever increasing 
proportion of the valuable land bank on 
a profitable basis. Despite the uncertainties 
of the ongoing Ukrainian economic 
environment, the Board believes EBITDA 
profitability is an attainable target for the 
current financial year, assuming the input 
plans deliver the expected results and the 
crops harvested can be successfully sold.
The Board believes that the right team 
is in place, farming the right crops on 
the right land to deliver positive returns 
to shareholders and looks forward to 
delivering this over the next few years.
NEIL BALFOUR
CHAIRMAN
26 FEBRUARY 2010


 STORAGE IS STRATEGIC FOR 
MEDIUM-TERM GROWTH