 Latchways plc Latchways plc
Following the very strong growth achieved in 2010/11, the past year has been a period of solid progress for Latchways, despite the 
increasingly difficult global economic environment. We have achieved growth across the majority of geographies and product lines, 
with a particularly strong performance from our Self Retracting Lifeline product range. The underlying strength of this performance 
has been partially offset by reduced revenues from our North American business.
The launch of our new Personal Rescue Device is the latest step forward in the strategic diversification of our product range aimed 
at increasing our ability to service the wider fall protection market. We are very excited by the market reaction to this product and we 
expect it to generate considerable revenues in the coming year.
In previous statements I have spoken of the need to increase our resources to enable us to reach a more diverse and global 
customer base. This process is now largely complete, with our sales and marketing team increased by 30% since last year, and 
further investments made in product development and operations. Whilst it will take time for these resources to become fully 
effective, we have embarked on an ambitious campaign to take our innovative product range to a much wider audience. I am 
confident that this will be of significant benefit to all of Latchways' stakeholders over the coming years.
Results
Group revenue for the year ended 31 March 2012 was  41.4 million (2011:  39.6 million), a 5% increase on last year.
Group profit before taxation was 7% higher than last year at  9.9 million (2011:  9.3 million).
Basic earnings per share rose 8% to 66.04 pence (2011: 61.27 pence).
Following the payment of a  4.5 million special dividend during the year, net cash balances at year end were  8.4 million  
(2011:  10.9 million).
Dividends
The board remains committed to maintaining a progressive dividend policy whilst ensuring that the group retains sufficient funds to 
make ongoing investments without recourse to banks or shareholders.
During the year, we concluded that the continued strength of Latchways' cash generation provided sufficient confidence to allow a 
partial return of surplus cash to shareholders. As a result, a special dividend of 40 pence per share, totaling  4.5 million, was paid in 
January 2012. Despite this, year end cash balances only reduced by  2.5 million.
The board is recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend to 22.73 pence per share (2011: 20.66 pence). Taken together 
with the interim dividend of 10.00 pence, the total regular dividend for the year of 32.73 pence per share represents a 10% increase 
on last year. This is twice covered by earnings.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 14 September 2012 to shareholders on the 
register as at 17 August 2012.
Our Trading Environment
As a business whose revenues have historically been closely linked to capital investment activity, business confidence has always 
been important to our success. For this reason, the current level of uncertainty in the global economic environment presents a 
challenge to Latchways. Our response has been to continue expanding our horizons, both geographically and in terms of product 
offering, in order to mitigate the effects of market downturns in any one area. It is this ongoing expansion which has enabled us to 
report another year of solid growth, despite the difficult economic outlook.
The UK construction market has remained flat this year. Despite this, we have seen some notable successes with retrofit 
installations for national accounts which have enabled us to grow our UK installer sales. Wingrip and the SRL range have also 
performed well. Our sealed SRL remains the product of choice for offshore wind turbines.
Our European business performed well again this year, despite the severe economic problems faced by many Eurozone countries. 
We are in the process of increasing our installer base in a number of European countries both within and outside the Eurozone which 
should ensure further growth going forward.
Our North American business has proven more challenging. This was in part due to the timing of significant Wingrip business for 
the US military which took place in 2011 and was not repeated this year. Prospects for Wingrip remain strong, with further business 
expected this year from both the military and civilian sectors. North American installer business also fell during the year. This has 
highlighted a need for broader representation across the Americas, and so, as in Europe, we will be increasing our customer base. 
Chairman's Statement
04 Latchways plc Latchways plc
The rest of the world has made further progress this year, mainly through sales of our vertical systems to the electricity transmission 
market. We are now the industry standard in Australia and New Zealand, with rollouts underway with a number of customers. 
Although this business can be lumpy by nature, it provides good visibility of potential business for a number of years to come, and 
the growing list of new customers should help to mitigate variations in individual companies' requirements.
New Product Development
Latchways has always been at the forefront of product development in the fall protection industry. Since the invention of the 
Transfastener device nearly 40 years ago, our name has been synonymous with technical excellence and innovation. In 2001 
we developed the Constant Force Post, the first truly energy absorbing rooftop support post, which revolutionised the installation 
process and eliminated the risk of water ingress around the post. Since then the Wingrip product lines have become the accepted 
standard for aircraft construction and maintenance in both the commercial and military fields, whilst the Sealed SRL has made the 
offshore wind energy sector its own.
This year saw the launch of the Latchways Personal Rescue Device (PRD). This product drastically reduces the complexity of 
rescue methodology in the event of a fall, enabling the user to self-rescue by gently lowering themselves to the ground. The product 
is built into the user's harness, which workers at height are already mandated to wear. As such it creates no additional inconvenience 
to the worker. The PRD is already attracting strong interest. At its recent awards, SATRA Technology, the leading research and 
technology centre and largest European Notified testing body, named the PRD its Personal Protective Equipment Innovation of 
the Year. The PRD also picked up the Product Innovation award at the British Safety Industry Federation Safety Awards 2012. We 
are in discussion with a number of potentially significant end customers, and shipments have already begun to the UK Ministry of 
Defence for their staff working at height. The product is now certified worldwide and in full production.
Additional variants of the PRD are now in development for specific customer requirements. We continue to work on further important 
product developments which I look forward to reporting on in due course.
Recent Projects
During the past year we have seen many more examples of Latchways being selected for the most prestigious projects worldwide. 
Recent successes have included the National Stadium in Warsaw, Poland for Euro 2012, and the Cathay Pacific cargo terminal at 
Hong Kong Airport. Closer to home, our systems were selected for the O2 Skywalk at the O2 Dome, as well as Heathrow Terminal 2. 
With the 2012 Olympics due to commence next month, I am pleased to note that Latchways fall protection systems were selected for 
all major Olympic venues.
People
Latchways is very fortunate to have an extremely loyal and talented team across the business, and it is their efforts which have 
led us to this point in our development. Over the past year, we have been actively strengthening the team in key areas. Our sales 
effort, particularly on our newer product ranges, has historically been resource-constrained and we have now largely completed a 
programme of recruitment which will allow us to proactively seek new business globally. We have increased resource in all the key 
growth areas, with dedicated teams specialising in individual products working together with other, geographically focused resources.
Supporting this sales effort we have strengthened the operational team, with a newly created role of Director of Operations. This 
role brings together the activities of the operational support functions. We are pleased to welcome Kate Cheyne, a qualified engineer 
formerly with the Royal Engineers, into this role.
The New Product Development team has also been strengthened this year, with the intention of improving the time-to-market for 
development projects, as well as introducing new metallurgical and testing skills to the development process. 
Throughout this period of change our existing staff have continued to deliver a first rate service to our customers. On behalf of the 
board I would like to thank all concerned for another successful year.
Current Trading and Prospects
Given the current level of economic uncertainty, it is not surprising that the new year has started slowly. Despite this, with the level 
of prospects and opportunities at an all time high, and the resources now in place to service these, we are confident of achieving a 
strong performance for the year as a whole. 
Paul Hearson, Chairman
05