 The year to 31 March 2007
saw the near completion of
our strategy to dispose of
non-core businesses, which
means that well over 90 per
cent of Lawrence' s sales are
now attributable to our ECO
animal health operation. In
view of this, authorisation will be sought at the Annual General Meeting to
change the name of the Company to ECO Animal Health Group plc.
Group turnover reached a satisfactory  18.3 million. Comparison with the
previous year' s figure of  20.3 million is distorted by the sale, in November
2006, of our Agil natural animal feed additive business, as its contribution
is only included for eight months in the year under review. Agil has a
seasonal bias towards the winter months and therefore its disposal further
skews comparison between the year just ended and the previous twelve
months. In addition, the US dollar weakened by 8.5 per cent against sterling
during the financial year and as the majority of sales are invoiced in dollars,
this had a negative translational impact on our results.
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment for the
year to 31 March 2007 was  5.8 million (2006:  3.4 million) and includes
discontinued activities and the profit on the Agil disposal. Amortisation
rose during the year from  2.2 million to  2.6 million reflecting the high
level of investment in new drug registrations. The amortisation figure
reflects the Company' s investment in the future of the ECO business.
Amortisation is a non-cash item and has no effect on our underlying trading
performance.
Profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2007 was  2.4 million, which
included discontinued activities and the profit on the Agil disposal (2006:
loss  66,741), while the earnings per share were 5.77p (2006: loss 0.135p).
ECO has successfully obtained in excess of 600 marketing authorisations
(also known as drug registrations), in over 70 countries. Marketing
authorisations are a prerequisite in every country before sales can begin.
The regulatory authorities granting these authorisations have become
increasingly stringent in order to ensure the safety of the animals treated and
also that of the consumers and the environment. These ever-rising standards
have inevitably led to longer development lead times and increased costs in
obtaining registrations.
Within this very tight global regulatory framework, we have invested some
 20 million since 1994 applying for and obtaining marketing authorisations.
In addition, applications for approximately 100 further approvals have been
submitted or trial work is being undertaken. This is a huge achievement for
a company the size of Lawrence, which has to date funded all the work
from its own resources. At a recent animal health conference, a speaker
suggested that the cost of achieving marketing approval for a new drug
today is now approaching  100 million and the process can take up to 15
years. Our total investment in intangible assets (drug registrations) could
represent exceptional value, which we believe is not reflected in the stock
market capitalisation of the company.
On 27 November 2006 we sold the business and assets of the Agil division
to Kiotech International plc for a total consideration of up to  5.5 million.
Lawrence received a cash payment of  4.695 million and 8,333,334 new
ordinary Kiotech shares. A further payment of up to  0.555 million is due
to Lawrence by May 2008.
To enable management to accelerate further and expand the company' s
veterinary drug development programmes we have today announced a
placing of 2,718,500 new ordinary shares with a number of institutional
and other investors to raise, subject to shareholder approval at an
Extraordinary General Meeting to be held on 14 August 2007,  5.44
million before expenses. The effect of this placing will be to bring forward
our anticipated profit growth.
Over the past few years we have successfully implemented a
strategy to sell our mature businesses to focus on animal health,
which we are confident will deliver a far superior long-term performance.
Mature businesses tend to be more cash generative because they require
less investment than fast growing operations. We believe it is right to forgo
this short-term cash benefit for the longer-term attractions of the animal
health industry. The board considers it is now appropriate to rebase the
dividend so that the company' s cash resources are used to maximum effect
in building long-term value for shareholders. We therefore recommend a
final dividend of 5.45 pence (net) per share, the same as for the equivalent
period last year, making a total for the year of 7.15 pence (net) per share
(2006: total dividend 7.0 pence). Shareholder approval will be sought at
the Annual General Meeting on 20 September 2007 to pay the final
dividend on 5 November 2007 to shareholders on the register on 19 October
2007. In future years the board' s policy will be to grow the dividend in line
with earnings.
ECO Group
Our core animal health business continued to make good progress with
sales in US dollars some five per cent ahead of the previous year.Aivlosin
 
,
our patented macrolide antibiotic, increased its global revenues by almost
33 per cent compared with the previous year. This significant advance
demonstrates the growing acceptance of Aivlosin
 
, which now contributes
close to half of total ECO sales, as a premium position drug.Aivlosin
 
sales
in Europe were ahead by 70 per cent year on year albeit from a low base,
while sales outside Europe and the USA (where registration is not expected
for another couple of years) were up by one-quarter over the same period.
2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am confident that ECO is evolving to
become a truly major force in the animal
health industry  3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Although sales of Aivlosin
 
in Europe advanced, the rate of progress was
below our expectations. Under the very strict EU rules, a higher than
anticipated dose rate was approved for the treatment of swine enteric
diseases; this has treatment cost implications. However, the higher dose
rate results in a faster return to health for the animal and virtually no impact
on productivity, thereby justifying its premium pricing. We are confident
that, with the provision of additional data, we will be able to support the use
of Aivlosin
 
at a lower and even more cost-effective dose rate. This will
provide our European distributors, principally Schering Plough, with a
product capable of securing a significant market share. It is encouraging
that sales in several EU countries have been good, although late launches
in some, resulting from delays in agreeing labelling requirements, have
meant that only a few weeks sales are included in these results.
We are delighted thatAivlosin
 
, which was a new molecule in Europe when
we introduced it in 2004, has been approved for use in pigs and we shall
continue to work closely with Schering Plough and our other European
distributors to gain higher sales and profits in line with our targets.
An application for the use of Aivlosin
 
for treating mycoplasmosis in
poultry has been submitted to the European Agency for the Evaluation of
Medicinal Products (EMEA) and it is hoped that marketing authorisations
will be gained before the end of 2007. Sales should commence in individual
EU member countries some six months after the approval of local labelling
requirements. This approval should allow non-EU poultry producers in
countries where Aivlosin
 
is already approved to export their products to
the EU. Only drugs licensed within the EU can be used outside the EU for
production animals destined for the European market. We expect a
commensurate rise in sales in those exporting countries to reflect this.
Additional important new Aivlosin
 
approvals are expected before the
financial year end in Australia, India and Japan, where submissions have
already been made. In Europe, further submissions to the EMEA will be
made shortly for other presentations and dosage levels of Aivlosin
 
.
Sales of Ecomectin
 
, our antiparasitic treatment for all grazing animals,
were in aggregate some ten per cent ahead of the previous year in markets
outside the USA. Sales in the USA were significantly lower, principally as
a result of our distributor, Schering Plough, withdrawing from the market
segment. As the USA is a significant market for Ecomectin
 
, the
disappointing performance in that country resulted in total Ecomectin
 
sales falling below the level of the previous year. Further new Ecomectin
 
marketing authorisations are expected in Europe and Japan before the end
of 2007.
Our success over the years in obtaining drug approvals is attributable to the
quality, knowledge and experience of our product development and
registration department. Within our traditional drug markets for production
animals our team has identified several immediate new opportunities,
including the pet medication sector and also one for Aivlosin
 
in swine.
Whilst sales of these new products will build over a period of years, we
expect that the margins attaching to them will be very attractive. In addition,
in order to complete the work in progress in our production animal drugs
programme, we estimate a further  8.3 million will be spent over the next
three years. These new registrations, together with our on going work with
the Center forV eterinary Medicine inAmerica, should complete our current
development and registration programme and as a consequence result in a
progressive reduction in our cash spend.
In my Interim Statement of November 2006 I referred to a collaborative
research agreement with Cambridge University' s Department of Pathology
to investigate new indications for Aivlosin
 
. The results suggest that
Aivlosin
 
may have a far wider reach than was previously thought and be
suitable for treating additional diseases in pigs and poultry. Subsequent
related studies by Iowa State University have indicated significant results.
Our joint venture company in China
continues to make progress, with
production now growing apace and
several new marketing authorisations
have been obtained. In April 2007, after
the year end, we increased our
shareholding and now have control of
this company; as a result we expect to enjoy faster growth in this very large
and fast growing market. In Japan, we have launched Ecopharma.com, an
innovative web-based sales and marketing platform for our medications,
which gives customers direct access to this important market.
People
We currently employ close to 70 people in our 16 offices around the world;
their hard work and dedication to growing our company is never
underestimated. They underpin the development of the company and are
committed to generating greater value for both our shareholders and
themselves, through our share option incentive programme.
Outlook
The year has commenced in line with our expectations. We have
transformed the company over the last four years through the disposal of
our non-core activities and I am confident that ECO, now our key business,
is evolving to become a truly major force in the animal health industry.
Peter Lawrence
Executive Chairman 21 July 2007