 Over the past eighteen months Lawrence plc has transformed itself from a small
group of diverse businesses to one focused on serving animal pharmaceutical and
feed markets worldwide. I am pleased to report a profit before tax and goodwill
adjustments of  4.0 million for the year to 31 March 2005. 
Our increased focus was achieved through a series of transactions. In March 2004 we
sold our Interpet pet products business; in October 2004 we purchased the 50 per
cent of ECO Group, which we did not already own and in March 2005 reached
agreement to sell our Blackfast Chemicals operation. The ECO transaction is of
particular importance as it eliminates the minority element from our accounts and
gives us the full benefit of the exciting growth potential of that business.
Turnover in the year from continuing operations reached  17.0 million, up from 
 16.1 million in the previous year; some 90 per cent of our turnover is generated
overseas. Operating profit was lower, influenced by the timing of the corporate activity
and reflecting the transition within the company. The weakness of the US dollar, which
fell an average of eight per cent against sterling during the year, has once again
masked an impressive sales advance particularly at ECO Group, which invoices
predominately in dollars. Nevertheless, with the huge amount of drug registration work that we have done and which
will secure the licence authorisations in both Europe and America for our Aivlosin and Ecomectin products, we are
confident that our sales expectations for those products will deliver the growth in earnings that will justify the structural
changes we have made.
Earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill were 12.13 pence. We propose raising the final dividend by 
13.0 per cent to 5.0 pence (net) per share making a total dividend for the year of 6.4 pence (net) per share, an increase
of 12.3 per cent over last year's payment of 5.7 pence (net) per share. Last year's figure comparative excludes the
one-off special dividend of 1.3 pence (net) per share which related to the disposal of Interpet. Shareholder approval
will be sought at the Annual General Meeting on 29 September 2005 to pay the final dividend on 1 November 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 12 August 2005. 
It is still our intention to sell Aquarium Products, our US based pet accessory business and discussions continue. The
business increased sales during the year, boosted by the successful launch of a range of ornamental fish medication.
Some ten years ago, in September 1995, Lawrence plc was one of the first companies to list on the new AiM market
in London. The market has been a great success and today it has over 1,200 members. We are proud to be 
part of AiM and as one of the largest companies on the market we have been included in the new FTSE AiM 50 
index. AiM has encouraged us to grow Lawrence plc financially and in share price terms within an appropriate 
regulatory discipline.
ECO GROUP:
Sales of ECO products were significantly ahead of last year. I am
pleased to report that our distributor, Schering-Plough Animal
Health, has now launched Aivlosin in Europe following the delay
caused by the regulatory authorities' labelling requirements. The
product is being sold in most EU countries although there is a
delay in France, Germany and Poland where the national
authorities require different strength and dosage registration
applications. These have now been submitted and will in due
course allow us access to these important markets.
We continue to receive positive feedback from veterinarians who
are prescribing Aivlosin for swine pneumonia. Repeat orders are
already being processed, which is encouraging. Much work has
been done to complete the registration dossiers required for
Aivlosin authorisations for further pig indications and also for
poultry. We are optimistic that many of these licences will be
granted by the end of the calendar year and we expect to launch
Aivlosin for these new indications before the end of the current financial year. Nevertheless we have learned from
experience to take a cautious approach regarding the timing of authorisations. 
Global sales of Aivlosin have more than doubled in the last year, which is very encouraging and underlines 
our optimistic expectations for Europe and America. Production of Aivlosin at our new plant has been excellent and it
has the capacity to produce all our future requirements for both Europe and the USA when our registrations are
granted. Sales outside Europe have been fulfilled from the plant since December 2004. Approval has been sought 
from the European regulatory authorities to add our plant to the current Aivlosin licence for pigs and this should be
granted later in the year. Aivlosin sales in Latin America continue to increase and new registrations are now expected
in Chile and Venezuela, which will add significant growth to sales and profit in those territories in the second half of 
the current year.
The registration authorities worldwide are rightly taking an increasingly strict approach to ensure that products licensed
for animal health and in particular for food table animals are thoroughly tested and investigated before granting a
licence. We support this development, which mirrors the testing discipline standard in drugs for human application.
These barriers to entry into the animal health markets worldwide strengthen our position as a supplier of high quality,
rigorously tested pharmaceuticals for animals.
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S ST A TEMENT
2 The US Food and Drug Administration is aligning itself with the latest international regulatory guidelines and the
regulatory hurdles remain in constant flux, which has further burdened an already busy authority and continues to delay
the registration process in that country. The shorter registration times for pet products has encouraged us to develop
a new generation of remedies for that market and we hope to launch these within two years. We still have over three
hundred registrations outstanding for our current product range and our registration department now exceeds twenty-
five full time specialists located at our facilities in England, China, South Africa and the United States. Our investment
in drug registrations has never been higher. 
During the year ECO strengthened its management team with a number of key appointments. A new managing director
was recruited in view of the incumbent's pending retirement. He is a qualified veterinarian and comes with a strong
record of experience and success in the industry. His responsibilities will include spearheading the sales and marketing
campaign for the coming years. A new appointment of general manager was made at our ECO-Biok Animal Health
joint venture in China; the new manager has considerable experience of the animal antibiotics industry in China.
Another important appointment was the head of new product development who brings extensive experience of the
animal health industry and regulatory environments worldwide. 
China is expected to become the fastest growing and largest market for our animal health range of treatments. In 2006,
only some 25 per cent of Chinese companies in that market will be permitted to continue to produce now that the
demanding GMP manufacturing standard is mandatory. This, combined with agricultural intensification and changes to
consumer preferences now that meat has become more affordable, should put ECO-Biok in a very strong position. 
AGIL:
Agil has continued to make good progress in sales with an increase of more than
eight per cent over last year. This has been achieved despite the outbreak of
avian influenza in South East Asia, which decimated poultry stocks in Malaysia
and Thailand and consequently affected sales of our salmonella control
additives. 
An increase in the awareness and willingness of poultry and pig producers
around the world to reduce antibiotic consumption for growth promotion has
benefited Agil and sales of its natural additives have increased. These products
provide monogastric species with bio-security to the feed and a unique bacterial
control system within their digestive system. Agil will continue to benefit from the
ongoing changes in farming methods and is working closely with its distributors
around the world by training their salesmen. Recent successes include new
distribution agreements in Bulgaria, Peru and Vietnam as more producers switch
to natural products. Agil's markets in Latin America have continued to improve
with sales now growing strongly. Eastern European countries have also started
to buy Agil products, notably in Bulgaria, Croatia, eastern Germany and Hungary.
In western Europe new products for young pigs have stimulated sales in
Denmark and Germany, two traditionally strong markets for Agil. Credence, our
new water disinfectant, has been successfully registered by a number of our
distributors and sales are growing. 
EMPLOYEES:
I would like to express my thanks to all employees and everyone associated with the company. Currently we employ
some 100 people around the world and it is their hard work, enthusiasm and loyalty, which enable the business to
continue to flourish. 
OUTLOOK:
The new financial year has started well with sales comfortably ahead of last year. Our budgets reflect the growing
importance of Aivlosin, which should make a progressively increasing contribution through the year as sales gather
momentum. Overall we are in good heart and remain confident that the strategic changes and increased focus of the
past year will be beneficial for the company and its shareholders.
Peter Lawrence
Chairman 29 July 2005
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S ST A TEMENT
Year Ended 31 March  1998
3