 Our results for the year to 31 March 2006 are for the first twelve month period following the
series of strategic disposals which is transforming Lawrence plc into a focused business
serving the animal pharmaceutical markets worldwide. With a significant part of the corporate
activity now behind us, we are able to concentrate virtually exclusively on the development of
our core activities. The businesses sold were all sound and profitable so it is inevitable that
without them, in the short term, our profits will dip. We are confident that enhanced returns
will be generated by redirecting the cash proceeds from the disposals into our core operations
to capitalise on their growth potential. 
Turnover in the year from continuing operations rose over 19 per cent to  20.3 million, up from
 17.0 million in the previous twelve months. As mentioned in the Interim statement, profit
comparison with earlier periods is distorted by the disposals and the ECO Animal Health
minority, which we bought out in October 2004. Next year's results will be easier to evaluate
and should allow comparison on a like for like basis, which will be clearer and more
meaningful. During this transition period our performance can be better measured by the
growth in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) on continuing
operations. EBITDA before exceptionals for the year to end March 2006 was  3.4 million, an
increase of over twenty per cent when compared with the  2.8 million of the previous year. Amortisation rose significantly during
the year reflecting the high level of investment in new drug registrations and also the impact of goodwill on the purchase of the
fifty percent minority in ECO Animal Health that we did not already own. Both these amortisation items are non-cash and have
no effect on our underlying trading performance.
We propose raising the final dividend to 5.45 pence (net) per share making a total dividend for the year of 7.0 pence (net) per share,
an increase of 9.4 per cent over last year's total payment of 6.4 pence (net) per share. The transitional nature of the company in
the year under review has resulted in earnings not covering the dividend. We are confident that the current level of earnings is
temporary and therefore the dividend increase can be justified. Shareholder approval will be sought at the Annual General Meeting
on 5 October 2006 to pay the final dividend on 1 November 2006 to shareholders on the register on 11 August 2006.  
We remain committed to disposing of Aquarium Products; our US based pet accessory operation and are currently in talks with
a potential buyer. 
ECO GROUP
Our core animal health business moved forward strongly; sales for the year approached a record  14 million, over 30 per cent
ahead of the previous twelve months. Operating profits more than doubled with a substantial widening of margins. This significant
advance in trading reflects the grant of more regulatory approvals around the world and a strong performance by our major
international distributors. 
It is disappointing when milestone target dates are missed, but we have grown accustomed to delays in the receipt of regulatory
approvals caused by increased demands for additional safety work. The granting of an approval, even if it is a little later than
expected, is still an important milestone and provides the basis for future growth in sales and profit. The barriers to entry into the
lucrative drug markets for farm animals and pets continue to rise and we remain committed to investing in the registration process.
There has been considerable press comment in the United States about the Food and Drug Administration's delays in approving
a huge influx of files for human generic drugs seeking marketing approval and their
failure to increase staff levels to cope with so many more applications. This has also
impacted on companies seeking approvals for animal health products and delays of up
to two years are now standard. Nevertheless, the rewards remain considerable and we
will continue to focus closely on those drugs which provide the fastest returns; this
includes treatments for domestic and companion animals.
China is an important territory for ECO and the investment in the Eco-Biok Chinese joint
venture has made good progress during its first year of commercial trading. Important
milestones include achieving Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) approval of a
premix/water soluble manufacturing plant (to add to the existing approved sterile
injectable plant) and the successful launch of the first five product lines, which include
Aivlosin and Ecomectin. Sales growth and improved profitability in 2006 will be driven by
the growth of existing products and a number of new ones that are on track to be licensed
during the year. The investment in the Eco-Biok joint venture is well positioned to
capitalise on the improved market accessibility that will result from the rationalisation of
the Chinese animal health industry. This rationalisation, which begins in the second half
of 2006 with the implementation of GMP requirements, will continue over the next few
years and is expected to completely transform what is potentially one of the largest animal
health markets in the world. In addition, agreement has been reached with Schering
Plough for the marketing of Aivlosin against mycoplasma in swine and poultry in Japan
and Korea, territories from which we have until now, been excluded. Further approvals for
additional indications in both species in these countries are currently being progressed.
With the grant of additional claims for Aivlosin and Ecomectin in Europe we are
expecting a significant increase in sales through our distributor, Schering-Plough Animal Health. This should materialise following
the launch to the most important veterinarians supervising pig production throughout the EU. There is an inevitable start up delay
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2
27016 PRE_ACC  9/8/06  7:10 pm  Page 2 in delivering product following the grant of marketing approvals. Product
labels have to be approved in the local language by the relevant
regulatory bodies in each of the EU member states. We have been
through this process before and we therefore anticipate a faster time to
market than we have experienced in the past. 
As our business expands globally, our management team has been
strengthened by a number of senior marketing appointments and we are
well placed to efficiently manage the anticipated increase in business.
There is still much to accomplish to achieve our target portfolio of drugs
and this will require significant further investment in drug registrations,
which we expect to peak next year. Meanwhile, we currently own a strong
and diverse portfolio of drug registrations, amounting to almost 400,
which provides us with a solid base load of business.
AGIL
Agil delivered another solid performance with good sales growth. The
business is in a strong position to take advantage of a worldwide trend in animal farming which is demanding both the more
efficient use of feed and a move away from antibiotic growth promoters. The global demand for sustainable crops, such as grain
and cereals, has driven up prices largely because of the move to ethanol production as an alternative to fossil fuels. Feed
additives are now crucial to the improved efficiency of the animal production industry whether it is fish, poultry, eggs, pork or beef.
Agil's range of natural feed additives improves food conversion and efficiency of feeds for both pigs and poultry, which allows
farmers and integrators to increase their profits.  
There has been considerable pressure on the pet food industry to eliminate synthetic anti oxidants on health grounds. Agil's range
of natural anti oxidants is regarded as the leader in that industry. In addition, Agil's range of natural mineral pesticides for grain
storage and application onto live birds for the control of mites, beetles and weevils is gaining acceptance worldwide.
Credence, our water disinfectant product, has also launched well and has been accepted as a good complementary product to
our range of on farm bio-security systems.
Good progress has been made establishing new territories for the sale of our products, including Algeria, China, Costa Rica,
Estonia, Macedonia and parts of Russia. Furthermore, there has been significant sales growth in Brazil, Bulgaria and Croatia;
territories where Agil has registered and launched products for swine.
Avian influenza continues to have a mixed effect on poultry producers around the world but there is growing evidence that this
virus will be controlled as it is likely to be a hazard for many years to come. Farmers in Thailand have already stepped up
production of cooked poultry in preference to exporting raw meat. Avian influenza continues to be a major media talking point but
the poultry industry is coming to the conclusion that it is something that the industry will need to live with. 
In aquaculture, we have experienced increasing demand for our Aquacube, which is a waterproof, stable binder for fish feeds and
especially useful for shrimp production. Feed losses in aquaculture result in high biological oxygen demand which depletes the
oxygen available to the fish and eventually kills them. Consequently, it is essential that fish feed and shrimp pellets remain solid
for up to four hours in water so as to minimise their decay which causes harmful oxygen depletion. 
Last year I reported our approval under the Universal Feed Assurance Scheme (UFAS) and the Feed Additive Manufactures
Assurance Scheme (FEMAS) and we have been audited with negligible action points. This indicates that our quality assurance
systems are working well and it is these accreditations that permit us to sell our range of feed additives to animal feed blenders
around the world. Companies without these approvals are no longer permitted to sell products to feed manufacturers.
PEOPLE
After the year end two directors retired. Michael Brent worked with me for nearly 25 years and was a director of the company
since 1986; he has made an enormous contribution to the development of Lawrence plc. Michael Sanders was a founder of our
ECO Animal Health business in 1993. On behalf of shareholders I would like to express our gratitude for all that they have done
and wish them a long and happy retirement.
I would also like to thank all our employees and associates for the contribution they have made. We are still a relatively small team
so the commitment and hard work of staff at all levels is particularly important and appreciated.
OUTLOOK
The rate of regulatory approvals for our animal health products is gathering pace and we expect a further significant rise in sales
during the current year, which has started well. While the approval timetable remains out of our hands we are confident that we
are fast approaching the time when Aivlosin sales will start to make a major and very positive impact on our trading performance.  
Peter Lawrence
Chairman 26 July 2006
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Year Ended 31 March  1998
3
27016 PRE_ACC  9/8/06  7:10 pm  Page 3