 I am pleased to report on one of the most significant periods in the strategic
development of your company. After the year-end, in the space of six weeks in April and
May 2004, we announced two extremely important events, which will shape the future of
the company for many years to come; the disposal of Interpet, our UK pet business, and
a positive opinion on Aivlosin, our exciting patented veterinary antibiotic.
Pre-tax profit for the year to 31 March 2004 was  5.4 million, which includes goodwill
adjustments arising from the corporate activity. This Group result compares with a pre tax
profit of  4.5 million in the previous year. Earnings per share advanced to 16.3 pence.
The strongest sales months for Interpet are February and March, the last two months of
our financial year, as customers stock up for the outdoor pond and gardening season.
The reorganisation of our animal health trading arrangements in South Africa, which was
effective from 1 March 2004, meant that we did not include its March sales, which are
normally the highest of the year as they include pesticide tenders. The absence of these
sales is reflected in the group turnover figure of  33.3 million, which is below the  36.3
million achieved in the previous twelve months. 
The sale of Interpet for  14.5 million in cash and the reorganisation in South Africa, which realised cash of  1.7 million,
have together had a very positive impact on the group. Our cash position is the strongest it has ever been and net assets
are in excess of  22.1 million, some  3.5 million above the previous year's record level. 
The proceeds from these two transactions were received after the year-end and have been treated as a post balance sheet
event. The current strength of our balance sheet allows us to return surplus cash to our shareholders, which we plan to
achieve through a specially enhanced dividend payment. At the Annual General Meeting on 23 September 2004
shareholders will be asked to approve a payment of 5.725 pence (net) per share, which comprises a final ordinary dividend
of 4.425 pence plus a one off payment of 1.30 pence (net) per share. This makes a total dividend for the year, including
the one off payment, of 7.00 pence (net) per share.
The underlying final dividend of 4.425p (net) per share is 12.0 per cent above last year's final dividend of 3.95 pence (net)
and maintains our progressive payment record. The total payment of 5.725 pence (net) per share will be made on 
1 November 2004 to shareholders on the register on 6 August 2004. The payment of 1.30 pence (net) allows us to reward
shareholders without impairing the efficient capital structure of the company going forward. The balance of our cash will
continue to be used to finance the expansion of the company through organic growth and strategic acquisitions. This
includes our intention to purchase the 50 per cent of the shares of ECO Animal Health, which the company does not own,
and discussions with the ECO shareholders have already commenced.
The sale of our Interpet pet business to Central Garden and Pet Company Limited, marks the end of one of the traditional
areas of business of your company. Over 30 years ago, we began by introducing cat litter to the UK pet industry and this
led to the creation of MOR Products Ltd, our pet wholesale business and to our retail operation, Petworld Superstores Ltd.
We subsequently sold these businesses and in 1997 acquired Interpet, which grew strongly under our ownership; turnover
increased fourfold and profit twelve fold. I would like to offer my good wishes and thanks to the excellent staff, past and
present of Interpet and wish them success in their exciting future with Central Garden and Pet. Our exit from the pet
industry emphasises our commitment to our core business, animal health and animal feed additives. We are now sharply
focused on our future as a leading supplier to the animal food farming industry worldwide. 
The sale of our US business, Aquarium Products, has not yet been concluded; we continue to make every effort to
complete this transaction in line with our original agreement with Central Garden and Pet.
In order to facilitate improved dealings in our shares, approval was given by shareholders at an EGM on 2 July 2004 for
our shares to be traded through CREST as uncertificated securities. 
ECO GROUP: 
ECO's animal health business delivered another strong performance with sales and profit ahead of the previous year.
Ecomectin, our endectocide range for all grazing animals, completed its first full year of sales in the USA and is being very
well received in this important market. The pour-on product for cattle, sold under the Coopermec name by Schering
Plough, has rapidly established itself as a leading brand. 
Sales of Ecomectins in Europe and Japan also progressed well. We expect
further growth in sales in the current year, particularly in Europe where the
recent expansion of the EU has created a larger market opportunity.
During the last year, we were granted over 40 new registrations for a range
of our products both in Europe and the rest of the world which brings our
current number of registrations to over 350 with a further 250 grants still
pending.
Following the year-end, on 12 May 2004, ECO was awarded a European
marketing authorisation for Aivlosin for the treatment and prevention of swine
pneumonia. The registration process started over ten years ago and it is
expected that further registrations for Aivlosin for different diseases in other
species of animals and geographic territories will be forthcoming over the
next few years. We expect to commence sales of Aivlosin in Europe in the
autumn through distribution arrangements, which have been recently
finalised. Further European registrations for Aivlosin for use in treating other
conditions in pigs and for its use with chickens, turkeys and other poultry
should follow over the coming months. 
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S ST A TEMENT
2 Earlier this month, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use adopted a further opinion recommending the
establishment of provisional maximum residue limits for Aivlosin in poultry species. This is another major hurdle that has been
overcome and we expect to complete our full documentation for regulatory approval for poultry before the end of the year. 
Submission of our registration dossiers to the Food and Drug Administration in the USA for Aivlosin should be made
towards the end of 2004 with a view to receiving a marketing authorisation some twelve months later. As has always been
the case, forecasting the precise timing of the grant of drug registrations is impossible, but now that the first European
authorisation is in place we look forward to a sharply increasing level of sales and profit over the coming years. 
We already have registrations for Aivlosin and Ecomectin in China and in June 2004 ECO signed a joint venture agreement
with Zheijang Shenghua BIOK Biology Co. Ltd. to manufacture these and other animal health products for this fast
expanding market. Our joint venture partner is a first class business and is one of the very few Chinese pharmaceutical
manufacturers to have achieved the essential GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) accreditation standard. The day-to-day
management and expansion of our business in China continues to be controlled from our Shanghai office, which we
opened in 1996. Following the sale of our trading business in South Africa to Afrivet Business Management earlier this
year, ECO has retained all its drug registrations and has agreed to their exclusive use by Afrivet. ECO will receive a
continuing payment based on Afrivet's total sales, which should enhance the profitability of ECO.
We have further strengthened our sales, management and registration teams at ECO Animal Health to ensure we are able
to cope efficiently with the increasing workload that these additional registrations and projects generate. A number of
second and third generation anti parasitic and anti infective products have completed their testing and the registration
process has already begun. First sales of these products were made in South Africa this year and we expect that other
parts of the world should start selling them during the next financial year and will be followed by sales in Europe and the
USA a year later. 
AGIL: 
Agil's performance improved steadily over the course of the year and the company has
benefited significantly from the strong ties it has built with its worldwide distributors. It is
rewarding to see business recovering in South East Asia following SARS and avian flu.
Agil introduced a number of new products during the year including Credence, a
treatment for animal drinking water supplies and veterinary disinfectants that has been
well received. Agil will continue to add new and innovative products to its range including
one with a novel approach to the administration of vitamins to growing animals.
A new market for Agil is in crop protection systems for stored grains for brewing and
malting. Demeter, our chemical free pesticide, has recently been approved by the Central
Scientific Laboratory and Home Grown Cereals Authority in the UK as a replacement 
for traditional organophosphate insecticides. This could prove to be an exciting new
business area for us. 
The biggest opportunity for Agil remains the expected heavy use of natural digestion
improvers to replace antibiotic growth promoters in Europe when they are banned at the
end of 2005. Agil is well placed for this change, having sold its range of Prefect, Salkil
and Bact-A-Cid antibiotic free products to the pig and poultry industry for some years. It
is particularly encouraging that many poultry and pork exporters outside the EU and
America are now adopting a regime of drugs and additives, which meet European and
FDA standards for meat products. This will benefit Agil and we expect continuing growth
and success in this area.
BLACKFAST: 
Blackfast Chemicals enjoyed a record year with exports continuing to account for
more than half of total sales. A second sales manager has been appointed to help
support and supervise the many distributors we have around the world. It is
encouraging to note an increase in the number of larger automated installations
that are now using our room temperature ecologically favourable process in favour
of traditional hot blacking methods. 
INTERPET: 
This business performed well during the ten months prior to its sale, with a good
advance in profit and improvement in operating margin.
EMPLOYEES: 
I would like to express my thanks to all employees and everyone associated with the company without whose hard work
and loyalty we could not continue to flourish. 
OUTLOOK: 
The current year has started well and while the future looks very different in its turnover and profit makeup from the past,
we have good reason to be confident. We expect ECO to grow strongly in the years ahead and be boosted by the grant
of further valuable marketing authorisations for Aivlosin and other new products. I look forward to reporting further progress
to shareholders.
Peter Lawrence
Chairman July 2004
LAWRENCE plc
CHAIRMAN'S ST A TEMENT
Year Ended 31 March  1998
3