 02 Legion Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman's statement
CHairman's 
statement
Overview and strategy
This has been a truly transformational year for Legion 
Group plc with a major acquisition, a new board, 
a change of name and a re-branding. These developments 
and our performance in the last year have increased 
confidence in our prospects among clients, staff 
and shareholders.
The year began with the integration of ManGuard Limited 
acquired from Mark Higgins, now our chief executive, at 
the end of the previous financial period on 20 March 2008. 
This integration was successfully completed during the 
year resulting in a substantial uplift in turnover to  28.9m 
(2008 restated 18-month period:  26.1m). The ManGuard 
acquisition has continued to deliver business development 
opportunities throughout 2008/9 and we expect this 
to continue into 2009/2010 and well beyond. We also 
continued the integration of previously acquired business 
units within our electronic security division with a new 
management team focusing on service delivery, new 
business opportunities and strong cash generation. 
strategic development
The most significant development in the year was 
in March 2009, just prior to our year end, when we 
completed the acquisition of Legion Group plc from the 
Royal British Legion Attendants Company Trust. Legion is 
an iconic brand with an unparalleled history and heritage 
in the sector. It is the UK's oldest established parking and 
security services group and a leading provider of manned 
guarding and CCTV monitoring services to the public and 
private sectors. The acquisition of Legion Group further 
enhances our position as a top-ten provider. Legion's 
heritage, brand and client portfolio will enable the 
combined business to generate shareholder value 
once its integration within the group is completed.
October 2008
Mark Higgins, 
previously founder 
of ManGuard, becomes 
chief executive
Charlie Cleverly, 
formerly director of 
operations, appointed 
as managing director
our year in review >
 The progress that has been 
made this year demonstrates 
the board's determination 
to build Legion Group into 
a best-in-class security 
solutions provider. 
november 2008 
Stephen Thomas, founder 
of Luminar Group 
Holdings plc, appointed 
as non executive 
chairman
march 2009
acquisition of 
Legion Group plc, 
the oldest parking 
services and security 
group in the uK 03 Legion Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman's statement
In order to fund the acquisition of Legion Group, we 
raised  2m via a placing in March 2009. Mark Higgins 
our chief executive also provided  1m of additional debt 
capital in the form of a loan note to Legion Group plc 
at the same time. 
In April 2009, post year end, we acquired from the 
Administrator of CS Group Ltd security and facilities 
management contracts worth  10m per annum for 
a consideration of  133,000. This addition further 
strengthened our combined market share within these 
sectors following on from the Legion Group acquisition. 
In July 2009, we changed name to Legion Group plc 
thus becoming the name of the AIM-listed legal entity 
and the holding company for the enlarged group.
As a result of both these acquisitions, the new enlarged 
Legion Group is now a top-ten provider of manned guarding 
within the UK and has nearly 3,000 personnel group-wide. 
The company will continue with its integration plan 
for all three business units: the previous SectorGuard 
business, the acquired Legion Group business and 
the contracts from CS Group. We have identified 
approximately  3m of savings per annum in the process. 
Much of this integration process has been completed 
in the first quarter of our new financial year with further 
progress planned in the second quarter. 
We now have a single operations centre located at 
our head office at Waltham Cross which co-ordinates 
all the activities of the enlarged business. Centralising 
support to control and reduce costs is key to the 
successful integration of these acquisitions.
r esults
Our results for the year ended 31 March 2009 are 
set out in the financial statements on pages 28 to 33 
and the notes on page 34 to 63.
Board changes
This year we have strengthened the board with significant 
additional knowledge and diversity of experience. 
I was appointed non-executive chairman of the group 
in November 2008 with my co-directors Mark Higgins 
as chief executive and Charlie Cleverly as managing 
director. Since our last interim report, a further board 
appointment has been made. I am delighted that 
General Sir Mike Jackson has joined the board as 
a non-executive director. General Sir Mike's highly 
distinguished military career ensures that Legion Group 
acknowledges its heritage and historic connections 
with HM Forces - his experience and knowledge will 
be invaluable as we develop our business. 
During the year David Marks, Robert Weigl and Jim McLeod 
left the board. Gerard Kelly was also appointed to the 
board and resigned during 2009. 
The management team below executive board level 
has also been strengthened during the year with the 
appointment of an operations director, Steve Greenaway, 
who has experience from OCS and Chubb, to run our manned 
guarding operation. An experienced divisional director 
was also appointed to run our electronic security division.
april 2009 
General Sir Mike 
Jackson joins board as 
non executive director
acquisition of the 
contracts of CS Group 
Limited, with an annual 
value of  10m
may 2009 
integration for acquired 
businesses underway 
with significant cost 
savings identified
Our business 04 Legion Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman's statement
Board changes continued
We now have the right management team in place with 
the mix of skills and knowledge to pursue successfully 
our next phase of growth whilst maintaining effective 
controls and corporate governance to drive sustainable 
shareholder value.
r ecovery and growth
The new board has had to deal with a number of legacy 
issues surrounding the financial position of the business 
and to restore relationships with its bankers, investors 
and other key stakeholders. These issues have taken up 
management time during the year and have resulted 
in significant professional fees. It is anticipated that 
a large part of these fees will be recoverable when 
the results of legal actions taken by the group are 
decided. We have also reviewed the intangible assets 
in our balance sheet this year, resulting in a further 
restatement of the prior year positions including an 
additional write-down of intangibles in the year ended 
31 March 2008 and prior periods. Whilst this has had 
a detrimental effect on shareholders funds, it means 
that the group has now dealt with the legacy accounting 
issues, inherited by the new board of directors and 
management team.
The key to our future success will be to increase sales, 
net revenues and cash generation. With a strong sales 
pipeline we are on track to reach our sales targets in 
the next twelve months. As we move forward, we expect 
to see financial rewards to shareholders arising from 
improved sales performance and our continued focus 
on cost reductions from integrating our acquisitions. 
Corporate social responsibility
Legion Group is striving to be a company that matches 
the need to deliver value to our shareholders with an 
ethical approach to the way we go about our business 
in the interests of our clients, our employees and all 
stakeholders in our business.
One of the unique characteristics of Legion Group throughout 
its history is its association with HM Forces. Traditionally 
a large number of Legion staff previously served in the 
Army, Navy and Royal Air Force. Under our agreement to 
acquire Legion Group we will continue to give significant 
financial support each year to the charitable work of the 
Royal British Legion to help ex-servicemen and women.
The board is mindful of the group's position as a large 
employer. We continue to invest heavily in the training 
and development of our staff. Our selection criteria for 
new staff are fair and rigorous to ensure all our people 
demonstrate the core values of our brand. Our continued 
commitment to the highest standards is demonstrated 
by our quality management system and many other 
organisational and technical accreditations.
Since the appointment of the new board, significant 
progress has been made in the application of fiduciary 
codes within the business. The board meets regularly 
and there is clear division of responsibility among the 
executive directors and the role of the non-executive 
board members. An audit committee comprising 
executive and non-executive directors has been 
appointed and these accounts have been reviewed 
and approved by the audit committee.
 As we move forward, 
we expect to see financial 
rewards to shareholders 
arising from improved sales 
performance and our 
continued focus on cost 
reductions from integrating 
our acquisitions. 
CHairman's 
statement
ConTinued 05 Legion Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman's statement
summary and outlook
This has been a challenging year for the group. In the 
middle of a tough economic environment we have 
also had to deal with difficult legacy issues in the 
group's accounting and funding position. The board 
has acted swiftly and decisively to make changes to its 
management structure in the light of this. Through the 
Legion Group acquisition and re-branding, the group is 
now a larger and more robust business, able to deliver 
security solutions on a much larger scale. Going forward 
we are a very different and very much improved business 
compared with twelve months ago.
We expect to continue to grow our business organically 
through our strong business development pipeline and 
through further opportunities to acquire additional 
businesses where these can add shareholder value. 
The economic downturn has created opportunity 
to acquire distressed businesses which cannot survive 
in the present trading environment. Through effective 
management of the integration of these businesses 
into the group, removing costs, improving margins 
and improving efficiency, we believe we can add gross 
margin without significantly increasing overheads. 
The progress that has been made this year demonstrates 
the board's determination to build Legion Group into 
a best-in-class security solutions provider. There are 
encouraging signs that our integration plan is well 
on course. This has been a period of great change 
for our staff and following our integration plans the 
culture of the business is now one of vigour and ambition. 
I would like to thank our staff, our customers and all our 
stakeholders for their continued support and the part 
they are playing in the growth of our business.
stephen thomas
non-executive chairman
30 september 2009
Current total personnel employed in delivery 
of our services group-wide
2,974
Our business