 2
Trading Performance
Sales of consumable products, which include most of the
leading manufacturers such as Agfa, Fujifilm, Kodak
Polychrome Graphics, BASF and Day International, were
 33.58m ( 37.39m).
The core of the consumable product sales continues to be
printing plates, film and pressroom products such as inks
and coatings. We have again increased the number of
computer to plate (CTP) installations in our customer base.
This continues to change our sales mix from analogue to
digital products.
Although we have secured new business from digital con-
sumable products, increased production from manufactur-
ers of the growth products in our market, combined with
competitive trading conditions, has led to further pressure
on prices. There are indications that these conditions are
coming to an end (one of our major competitors went into
administrative receivership after the year end), so we are
hopeful that we will see a more sensible and stable
approach from now on.
Sales of analogue products continued their steady decline in
2004 but we maintain supply of these products to provide a
full service for those customers who require them.
We have recruited two new specialist salesmen in our com-
bined Pressroom and Packaging division which will provide
further opportunities and a focused approach to this
growth area of our business.
Our telesales operation, based in Scotland, goes from
strength to strength. This enables us to gain orders for all
our branches in an extremely cost-effective manner. We
are also putting additional resources into our internet and
online ordering facilities.
We have recently been appointed by KBA, a major press
manufacturer, on an exclusive basis to sell the KBA Genius
52 printing press in the UK. This is a digital short run com-
pact B3 press which can be configured for four or five
colours. The Genius 52 uses Toray waterless printing
plates and adds to our portfolio of environmentally friendly
equipment and consumable products. This is a unique
opportunity to work with one of the leading printing press
manufacturers with the opportunity not only to sell the
printing press but also to generate consumable product
revenue from the sale of plates, ink and printing blankets
for a considerable period of time.
A good balance of sales between CTP platesetters and
digital printing engines has contributed to an exceptional
performance for the sale of electronics equipment in
2004. Sales were up 23% to  11.18m ( 9.09m).
We will be demonstrating the Genius 52, mentioned above,
for the first time at Northprint, the major printing exhibition
at Harrogate, in April 2005. We will also be exhibiting the
latest CTP equipment and digital printing machines from
the leading electronic equipment manufacturers in the
industry, such as Agfa, Screen, Xerox and Fujifilm. We are
also exhibiting Creo and MacDermid equipment and con-
sumable products in March at Flexo 2005, the European
packaging exhibition at the NEC.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2004
The audited results for the year ended 31 December 2004
show a pretax profit of  1.31m ( 1.66m) before
 475,419 ( 2.46m) of exceptional charges incurred in the
reorganisation of the business during the year. The profit
before tax after exceptional items was  0.83m (loss of
 0.80m). Sales for the year were  45.04m ( 46.79m),
reflecting continuing price deflation in the printing and
graphic arts supply markets.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) before exceptional items
were 4.19p (5.54p) and after exceptional items were
2.63p (loss 3.25p).
The company has continued to focus on strict control over
working capital, with further reductions in stock holdings
and debtor balances, which has resulted in an excellent
improvement in our cash balance during the year. At
31 December 2004, the cash balance was  4.52m com-
pared with  2.55m at 31 December 2003.
With a strong balance sheet, underpinned by a healthy
cash balance, the Board is recommending a final divi-
dend of 1.825p (1.75p), an increase of 4.29% which will
be paid on 31 May 2005 to shareholders on the register
as at 29 April 2005. The ex-dividend date is
27 April 2005. The total dividend for the year is 3.625p
per share compared with 3.5p per share for the previous
year, an increase of 3.57%.
chairman's statement Prospects
We are still looking for the improvement in the UK econo-
my to be reflected in the printing and graphic arts industry.
As mentioned, overcapacity and price pressures as new
digital technology replaces analogue processes, continue
to keep downward pressure on prices and margins.
However, by keeping close to our business model of strict
attention to gross margins and control of costs, we have
consolidated our position as the leading independent dis-
tributor to the industry with a strong balance sheet and a
healthy cash balance. This should enable us to expand by
bolt-on acquisitions with the aim of sharpening the focus of
the business into the growth areas of our market. In sum-
mary, although current trading is subdued, there are, I
believe, good opportunities for the Group which should
begin to take effect in the second half of 2005. I am
pleased that we are able to recommend an increase in the
final dividend, after a similar increase in the interim divi-
dend.
We are pleased to announce the acquisition of United
Graphics Limited, a distributor of equipment and consum-
able products to the printing and graphics art industry.
United Graphics operate predominately in London and the
South East of the country and with their strong management
team will considerably strengthen our business in this area
of the country. The net assets of United Graphics Limited at
31 December 2003 were  205,170 and management do
not expect them to be materially different at the date of
completion 14 March 2005.
I would like to thank all suppliers and customers for their
continued support and confidence and, finally, a big thank
you to all employees for their hard work and loyalty, partic-
ularly those 33 long service employees whose unique con-
tribution to the company was recognised in a special Long
Service Luncheon in September 2004.
B C Clark
Chairman
15 March 2005
3
The formation of a dedicated digital print team in July
2004 enabled us to concentrate on the sales of high-end
printers which resulted in substantial end-user sales in the
year. This performance resulted in Litho Supplies gaining
the prestigious Xerox  Value Added Reseller of the Year
2004' award.
Service and support continues to grow and develop provid-
ing our customers with the best possible backup. With the
acquisition at the beginning of 2005 of System Builders
and Internet (SBI), a sales and service business, Litho
Supplies can now offer customers specialist services
including web creation, web hosting and web-submission
software packages and support. SBI will also augment our
current information technology and PC based solutions
service, making us a true one-stop shop for all electronic
requirements in graphic arts, in press, pre-press and office
environments.
The LithoDirect Catalogue continues to flourish with good
growth in 2004 over the previous year. This medium for
capturing sales of peripheral electronic pre-press equip-
ment is an ideal way to support our customer base with
these products, allowing our sales team to focus on the
higher value system sales.
New, exclusive software and hardware products are being
continually evaluated as we continue to expand our prod-
uct base, ensuring that all profitable sales opportunities
are covered in our portfolio.
Board Appointment
As announced in my interim statement, Mr Eddie Williams
was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2004 as
Group Sales Director. Eddie has been with the company
since January 1986 and I am confident that he will bring
his wide experience in the printing industry and his energy
and drive to this critical position. I take this opportunity of
formally welcoming him to the Board.
Reorganisation
During the year, we have continued to reorganise and to
reduce costs. At the same time, we are developing new
routes to market such as telesales and our online order-
ing facility.
There is no doubt that the business was affected in 2004 by
the distraction of management changes. Despite that, there
was a strong underlying performance from all divisions of
the business. Moreover the changes have enabled us to
focus our efforts towards a more concentrated and stream-
lined operation in the management of the business which will
be of benefit in the months ahead.
The second half of the year also produced considerable
distractions for the Board as we examined the opportunity
presented by the difficulties being faced by one of our
largest competitors. The eventual administrative receiver-
ship of Openshaw at the beginning of 2005 should reduce
some of the competitive pressures on pricing and provide
further opportunities for the expansion of our business,
which we will be vigorously pursuing.
MuroDigital, which sells digital output devices and binding
systems to the corporate and education markets, has
been reorganised and is now making progress.
www.litho.co.uk