 chairman's statement
year ended 31 March 2005
overview of the period
This has been a year of exciting fundamental
change for London & Boston Investments plc
(L&BI) in which we have focussed on our
strategy of building a group consisting of
wholly owned profitable subsidiaries which
can achieve public quoted status in their own
right at the appropriate time and we have
implemented our plan to sell a number of our
minority investments. In line with this strategy
we successfully completed the acquisitions
of PSG, M&B and Patersons bringing the
number of our operating subsidiaries to four. 
Despite these achievements, in the year
under review, we did not reach where we
intended to be with regard to profitability.
However, the first five months of this current
year, following the year end, are ahead of
budget and the Group structural and
managerial changes needed have largely
been completed
PSG (Franchising) Ltd (PSG)
trading as The Property Search Group
PSG was acquired in June 2004.
Immediately following the completion of
the acquisition there was a downturn in
the level of UK house sales, with sales in
the year being 55% lower than the previous
year, according to Knight Frank. However,
management actions and increased
efficiency have enabled the PSG Group to
restrict the fall in turnover to only 10%. In
November 2004, Tweedie Brown CBE was
appointed Managing Director. With this
appointment, a re-pricing of some of the
Company's business, an increased
concentration on winning new business
and increased levels of support for our 87
franchisees, we have been able to maintain
PSG's EBITDA on a pro forma basis at a
similar level to the previous year's  2m. 
This is a remarkable achievement against
the backdrop of the severe reduction in
industry volumes. This success has been
maintained to date in the current year. This
company is responsible for 750,000
property searches, of all types, each year
and is the market leader with an estimated
20% of the domestic search market. We are
very confident for the future growth of this
company now that we have taken the steps
mentioned above to increase market share. 
Audiotel International Ltd (Audiotel)
In my interim statement, I alluded to the
fact that trading in the security industry
traditionally improves in the second half of
the year due to the purchasing patterns of
governmental organisations and Audiotel
has hitherto followed this pattern.
However, this trend was not maintained in
the year ended 31 March 2005 and the
Company recorded a  431,000 operating
loss, before Group management charges,
compared to  409,000 operating profit in
the previous year. 
At the outset of this downturn, we
appointed Paul Hughes ACIB as the new
executive Chairman, reduced overheads
and appointed a new Sales Manager and
sales personnel. The impact of these
measures is already being reflected in
improved financial performance in the
current financial year and a repeat  1.8m
order has been achieved which will add
significantly to Audiotel's profitability
during the course of the current year. 
London & Boston Investments plc Annual Report 2005 2
Results for the Group on a pro forma basis are: 
Turnover Gross Profit EBITDA
   
Existing Operations 2,031,250 1,196,669 (1,640,228)
PSG 6,070,849 2,691,720 1,967,170
M&B 1,126,666 836,546 371,884
Patersons 116,479 104,826 29,780
Pro forma Group 9,345,244 4,829,761 728,606
02_LAB_arf.05.qxd  30/09/2005  11:06  Page 2 During the year under review significant
investment was made in developing a new
product range aimed at the commercial
market as opposed to Audiotel's traditional,
notoriously lumpy , governmental market.
Sales of these new products are beginning
to come through since the beginning of this
current year and Audiotel is now trading in
line with budget. 
Audiotel has been established for nearly
25 years and is recognised as a leader in
the creation of surveillance and counter-
surveillance products which are marketed
globally and used by government agencies,
security and defence organisations around
the world. Audiotel is extremely well
placed to benefit from the increasing
international need to combat terrorism
and international crime.
Moore & Buckle (Flexible Packaging)
Ltd (M&B)
M&B operates in a niche market as a
specialist short run provider of innovative
and remedial packaging solutions.
During the year under review, the
necessary move to larger purpose built
premises was successfully completed.
This move facilitates M&B's ability to
penetrate into the pharmaceutical and
food industries, but in the short term the
disruption of the move had a depressing
effect on the profits of this company. As a
result, the Company achieved only
 372,000 EBITDA against  860,000 for
the previous year. However, revenues
have now been restored to former levels
during this current year and a new sales
initiative is now being implemented with a
new customer list being created. Whilst
we have increased the costs this year with
new premises, the appointment of a new
Production Director and the establishment
of a new accounting function, we believe
that, in time, these will be offset by much
increased business. The Company has
operated largely in line with budget for the
first five months of the current year. 
Patersons Financial Services Ltd
(Patersons)
We acquired Patersons in January 2005
as we perceived a specific need within
our Group to comply with the recently
introduced FSA rules for sale of insurance
products. Whilst, at a purchase price of
 100,000, this was a small acquisition, we
are expecting the Company to contribute
significant profits to the Group over time.
In the three months to 31st March 2005,
Patersons generated profits of  31,000
before taxation and has traded in line with
budget for the first five months of this
current year. We are planning to increase
the size of this company organically and
by the acquisition of a number of similar
sized brokerages during the current year.
underwritten placing and open offer
To assist with the financing of the  11.5m
acquisition of PSG we raised  1.5m, before
expenses, from existing and new
shareholders through an underwritten
Placing and Open Offer in June 2004, which
was fully subscribed. Both your Finance
Director, John May, and I were underwriters
and in addition we took up our entitlement
of shares in L&Bi under the Open Offer.
investments
I have previously stated that it is our policy
to focus on our wholly owned subsidiaries
and to sell our minority investments. Since
the balance sheet date, we have already
disposed of our small interests in
Merchant House Group Plc and in Croma
Group Plc and I expect that we will have
sold most of our other investments by the
end of next year. One exception will be our
20% investment in Avatar Systems Inc,
which is listed on NASDAQ BB and which
is a software provider to the US oil
industry, where we feel there is a large
upside potential in the medium term.
post balance sheet events
During September 2005 we placed
25,252,525 L&BI shares at market price
with Wheddon Ltd, a BVI company, which
is ultimately owned by Investec Trust
(Guernsey) Ltd, as trustees for The
Tchenguiz Family Trust. Wheddon Ltd is
managed by Consensus Business Group
(Consensus) which is headed by Vincent
Tchenguiz. There are exciting synergies
between L&Bi and some of the many
companies under the Consensus umbrella
which we intend to explore and develop.
the future
It is our determination to focus the activities
of the Group on creating profits and assets
by means of added management value
to all our companies and, therefore,
consideration is given, on a continual
basis, to how the best value for our
shareholders can be achieved and this
may include, as I have mentioned above,
moving some of our subsidiaries out to
the AIM and other stock markets
individually, and using new alliances and
acquisitions. This current year is likely to
see a number of important changes to the
Group targeted at achieving both profits
and a sustained higher share price for the
Group. We will inform you about these
changes in due time and, where required,
will call the relevant shareholders
meetings to approve them.
I would like to welcome John Burley to our
Board together with Julie Hester and her
alternate director, Gary Hester, the founders
of PSG, and to thank shareholders for their
continued support and encouragement
during this transitional period. 
I would also like to thank John May for his
unstinting support, working all hours 
with me, and to thank all the Group's
employees, at every level, who have had
to undertake and implement the changes
and innovations we have required in 
their companies. 
We are confident that this year has set the
foundations for an exciting and bright
future for our Group and we look forward
to improved performance in the future. 
Stephen Koml sy
Chairman
19 September 2005 
London & Boston Investments plc Annual Report 2005 3
02_LAB_arf.05.qxd  30/09/2005  11:06  Page 3