 01
London Clubs International plc
Annual report 2006
Introduction
2005/6 has again been a year of significant change and
progress for the Group, with the disposal of Les Ambassadeurs
and the award of two new licences in Leeds and London' s
Leicester Square.
The sale of Les Ambassadeurs, for  115 million, represents
excellent value to the Group, particularly in the context of the
recent trading at the high end of our business. With LCI
significantly de-geared, the Company has put in place a new
 81.7 million refinancing package to support the roll out of 
the development portfolio in London' s Leicester Square,
Manchester , Glasgow, Nottingham and Leeds.
From a regulatory perspective, we have also seen significant
progress, with casinos permitted to offer 20 slot machines from
October 2005 and increased stakes and prizes from November
2005. The results from the Group' s electronic operations have
increased significantly year on year and are expected to be an
increasingly important source of revenue for the Group.
In addition, the removal of the 24 hour rule in October 2005 
has driven significant attendance growth, especially in the
Sportsman, the Golden Nugget and in our provincial
operations. These trends strongly support the Group' s
development strategy of providing better quality , more
customer friendly operations in big city locations.
As highlighted at the Annual General Meeting in September
2005, the July bombings in London adversely impacted
business during the first half of the year though, as reported 
at the interim announcement in December 2005, the Group
has seen improved drop and win levels in the second half of 
the year .
Results
These results are the first full year to be prepared in accordance
with IFRS.
Revenue from continuing operations grew substantially during
the year to  126.1 million (2005:  103.3 million). Revenue 
from discontinued operations, at Les Ambassadeurs, fell from
 35.7 million in 2004/5 to  27.4 million this year .
The Group generated operating profit from continuing
operations of  12.3 million (2005:  11.1 million) and operating
profit from discontinued operations of  0.9 million (2005: 
 2.4 million). Loss before tax from continuing operations was
 3.6 million (2005: loss of  5.0 million) and profit before tax 
from discontinued operations, including the gain on disposal,
was  100.4 million (2005:  2.4 million).
Included within the results for 2005/6 are exceptional items
associated with the sale of Les Ambassadeurs (profit of 
 99.5 million) and unsecured creditor receipts from the Aladdin
( 1.0 million). 2004/5 included  2.1 million of exceptional gain
associated with the sale of unused gaming positions in 
South Africa.
Interest payable and similar charges of  15.5 million (2005:
 14.4 million) includes  4.0 million of unamortised costs
associated with our previous banking facilities, which were
required to be written off when those facilities were repaid on 
31 March 2006.
Basic earnings per share was 43.9p (2005: loss per share
0.7p).
London casinos
Les Ambassadeurs had its lowest trading performance with a
number of players enjoying success at the tables resulting in 
a lower than usual win percentage. Revenues were down by
 8.3 million from the previous year .
2005/6 was the first full year of trading at the Sportsman,
following its relocation from Bryanston Street to Old Quebec
Street in 2004/5. T rading at the enlarged premises has
continued to grow strongly and the operation has achieved 
a satisfactory result for the year .
The Golden Nugget was substantially refurbished during the
year which, whilst causing some disruption to our summer
business, has already resulted in increased attendances and
enabled us to recapture lost market share.
The Rendezvous London achieved another record result during
the year , with a substantial increase from the previous year' s
record level.
Provincial casinos
The Rendezvous Brighton again performed strongly during 
the year , with substantial increases in both attendances 
and revenue. The ongoing development of the Marina site
continues to benefit the business.
After four years of growth, the Rendezvous at the Kursaal,
Southend fell short of last year' s result, mainly due to a lower
than normal win percentage.
Joint venture - Fifty
Following an extensive refurbishment in the prior year , the year
to 31 March 2006 represented Fifty' s first full year of trading in
its new form as a joint venture between LCI and Robert Earl' s
Celebrity Gaming. The new product has attracted substantial
interest and has enabled the Group to extend its operations into
a new, affluent market. 
Membership of the club has grown rapidly and the venue has
received a number of awards, particularly in respect of the now
world-renowned Salvatore' s Bar .
The operation' s first half trading was impacted by a lower 
than normal win percentage - this improved, and Fifty traded
profitably during the second half of 2005/6.
Chairman's review 02
London Clubs International plc
Annual report 2006
Chairman's review
continued
Overseas
The Ramses Hilton and Nile Hilton casinos again performed
strongly during the year , having benefited from Middle Eastern
visitors choosing to visit Cairo rather than the UK during the
summer , due to the effect of the July London bombings.
The Emerald Casino Resort in South Africa has once again
enjoyed a record year , with strong performances from all areas
of the resort, and continues to be a major profit contributor to
the Group.
Deregulation
The Gambling Commission has now announced the shortlisted
locations for the proposed Regional Casino, the 8 Large
Casinos and the 8 Small Casinos. The Group will participate
fully in applications for licences which it considers will be of
most benefit to the Group.
It is anticipated that the new Gambling Commission, which
replaces the former Gaming Board for Great Britain, and will be
responsible for the regulation of most forms of gambling, will be
fully established by September 2007. At this time, the Group
will then be able to market its operations more effectively to let
both our current and potential customers know what facilities
our casinos have to offer .
The removal of the requirement to operate as members' clubs
will also enable us to compete on a level playing field with other
types of leisure offering, broadening the appeal of casinos.
Developments
The Group' s property in Manchester is now well into its
development phase, with opening anticipated in the autumn 
of this year . Branded as Manchester 235 , it will offer a unique
entertainment combination which will set it apart from other
casinos with luxury , contemporary interiors, state of the art
gaming, bar facilities, two restaurants and a live music venue.
The development of the Group' s Leicester Square casino is 
also progressing well and we anticipate trading commencing
towards the end of the first quarter of 2007. As with Manchester ,
the casino will be positioned as a destination venue with a
unique restaurant, gaming and entertainment offering.
The Group' s other licences in Glasgow and Nottingham are
currently undergoing landlord' s enabling works and will form
part of the Group' s second phase of development with
openings scheduled for summer and autumn 2007. Our
licence in Leeds is currently anticipated to be opening towards
the latter end of 2007/8.
Board
Linda Lillis resigned as Finance Director of the Company in 
April 2006.
The Board expresses its thanks to Linda for her valuable
contribution to the business and wishes her well in her 
future career .
Current trading
After a relatively slow start in the initial months of 2006/7,
business levels in London have started to improve, with win
levels and cash drop all ahead of last year . Attendances have
shown substantial increases over 2005/6 and electronic
gaming revenues, in particular , have grown strongly .
The provincial casinos in Brighton and Southend have also
seen substantial increases in attendances. Overall trading levels
are in line with last year , with the increase in attendances offset
by lower overall spend per head levels.
Overseas, the casinos in Cairo are performing well ahead of the
same period last year , having benefited from the relatively quiet
start to trading in London. The Emerald Casino continues to
trade extremely well and remains an important and material
contributor to the Group' s earnings.
Merger
As announced on 26 June 2006, the Company has been in
discussion with Stanley Leisure plc concerning the possibility of
a nil premium merger of the two groups. Such a merger would
result in the combined group being the largest casino operator
in the UK and well positioned to benefit from the opportunities
afforded by further deregulation.
Whilst discussions are progressing, there can be no certainty
that they will lead to a transaction. The Company will keep
shareholders informed of developments.
Outlook
With the Group' s portfolio of licences well into development, the
Board remains optimistic about the future. Licences have been
secured in good locations in large cities across the UK and,
with a focus on strong design and high quality , we expect them
to be successful and attract significant additional business.
Casino gaming is entering a new era and, with the high quality
premises we plan to operate, focusing not only on gaming but
also on entertainment, restaurants and bars, we anticipate
continued growth in the Group' s revenue, profitability and
customer base.
Les Ambassadeurs has been a significant but volatile
contributor to the Group' s historical earnings and its disposal
has now enabled the Group to focus on operations which are
most likely to benefit from gaming industry deregulation. We
would like to express our thanks to all our former colleagues at
Les Ambassadeurs for the excellent contribution they have
provided to the Group and our customers since 1991.
Michael Beckett
Non-Executive Chairman
8 August 2006