 chairman's statement 
Overview
The year under review has been a varied one with no single
overriding market trend or significant event defining either the
overall economic landscape or the specific sectors which are key
to the Company's performance (IT, Market Research, Engineering
and T raining).
This has left the markets and consequently many businesses in
an uncertain position. Undoubtedly there has been a recovery in
many sectors of the economy, and in particular the retail sector
which has remained buoyant for much of the year. However, at the
same time, many companies have questioned the strength of the
recovery with concerns over the level of UK consumer debt or
increased geopolitical uncertainty consistently clouding the longer-
term future. Due to such concerns, companies have been reluctant
to commit to major investment programmes except in situations
where there is an overwhelming rationale such as the integration
of an acquired business or where the payback can be determined
with a high degree of certainty. It is such investment programmes
which are the source of much of our own business.
The effect that this has had on Lorien's trading activities has also
varied, with pockets of exceptional performance but also areas
where we have found ourselves treading water. This has made
developing our own strategy very challenging.
I am nevertheless delighted to report that our year-on-year
financial performance has improved significantly with turnover on
continuing operations increasing by 29% and profit before taxation
(excluding non-recurring administrative expenses) by 13%.
Financial Results (Continuing Operations) 
For the year ended 28 November 2004, the Group's financial
results were as follows:
Turnover -  121.6m (2003:  94.3m)
Profit before tax -  1.2m (2003:  1.1m)
Net assets -  9.5m (2003:  8.4m) 
Net debt -  7.5m (2003:  3.4m)
Headroom on funding facilities -  7.1m (2003:  8.3m)
Earnings per share - 5.0p (2003: 4.4p)
The above results exclude non-recurring administrative expenses and 
the profit/loss on disposals in 2003 and 2004. The earnings per share
calculation assumes a corporation tax charge of 30% in each year.
Trading Summary
Resourcing At the time we announced our interim results in July
2004, I stated that we had seen the IT market recover in the early
part of the year to a level which I believed better reflected the
longer-term investment levels achievable in the sector. As such,
I stated that I saw growth moderating in the second half and into
the longer-term with future business performance being determined
as much by the ability of companies to innovate and win market
share as by general market led factors. In my view, this has proved
to be the case in our own Resourcing business, where, following
strong market led growth in the first half of the year, our growth in
the second half has been mainly limited to those clients where we
have been able to outperform relative to our competitors.
Our Key Accounts business, which is focussed on major corporate
clients, best illustrates the uncertain market conditions during the
year. In this business, despite a significant increase in activity and
performance from certain clients, other clients have cut back their
requirements to such an extent that overall business levels have
remained broadly unchanged year-on-year.
In our Contract and Permanent recruitment businesses, where
resources can be targeted more specifically at growth markets, our
performance remained robust for a longer period. Although we
also saw a moderation of growth in both areas towards the end
of the year, the financial performance of both businesses increased
significantly year-on-year.
With the substantial increase in order levels in the first half and
the continued strong performance of our contract and permanent
businesses in the second half, the results for the division improved
dramatically with revenues and gross margins of  105.1m (2003:
 78.4m) and  11.2m (2003:  8.7m) respectively. The division's
contribution to Group overheads increased by 20% to  4.2m from
 3.5m in 2003.
Specialist Services In our Specialist Services division, the mixed
performance reported at the time of the interim results persisted
throughout the second half of the year.
In Lorien Customer Focus, our Market Research, Digital Printing
and Training business, we continued to deliver a high level of customer
satisfaction to our existing clients, such that returns from existing
programmes increased relative to the prior year. However, the
objective for the Market Research business was to win material
new programmes to allow us to better absorb our corporate
overhead cost base. The competitive nature of this sector has
been such that clients have generally looked to reduce the fee
rates of incumbent suppliers rather than to change to new ones.
As a result, we have not yet achieved the expansion we targeted,
despite a significant investment in business development.
In our Training business, although we have not achieved the
diversification of the client base we had hoped for, increased
penetration of our key customers has produced an excellent 
year-on-year performance.
2 lorien plc In our Digital Printing business, 2004 has been a transitional year
with the overriding objective to establish a production facility
which we believe can fully exploit this exciting new opportunity.
Although the process took a little longer than I had anticipated,
completing in February 2005 rather than the original target date
of November 2004, I believe we now have the technology, resource,
infrastructure and employee profile we require. With a strong
pipeline of business opportunities, the primary objective is now 
to see the revenue line increase over the second half of 2005.
In our Engineering business, 2004 has been a year of consolidation
with the completion of a major contract in the first quarter
generating some short-term productivity issues in the middle of
the year. These have now been overcome and the impact on the
financial results for the year was kept to a minimum. Recent project
wins and the pipeline of prospects lead me to believe that the
business will recover fully in 2005.
Despite increasing revenues and gross margin to  16.5m (2003:
 15.8m) and  4.9m (2003:  4.8m) respectively, the overall financial
performance of this division was disappointing with contribution to
Group overheads decreasing to  2.9m (2003:  3.1m). This emphasises
the need to deliver revenue growth in line with the investment in
both office infrastructure and business development resource.
Administrative expenses (continuing operations excluding
non-recurring) In the difficult market conditions in which we have
been operating, it has been essential to maintain a tight control on
costs. Although administrative expenses have increased in absolute
terms from  12.4m to  14.6m during the year, as a proportion 
of revenues costs have fallen significantly from 13.1% to 12.0%.
The cost base is now at a level from which it will be difficult to
deliver further efficiencies without top line revenue growth.
Disposal of associate undertaking/non-recurring
administrative expenses In October 2004, we announced the
sale of our 27% holding in Guidance Enterprises Group Limited.
The sale generated a profit on disposal of  0.3m. Of the total
proceeds of  0.6m,  0.3m was re-invested in the expansion of 
our Digital Printing operation resulting in non-recurring
administrative expenses of  0.3m.
As a consequence of the delayed completion of the reorganisation
of the Digital Printing business, a proportion of the non-recurring cost
initially identified will be charged in 2005. In addition, in expanding
our operations we have taken the opportunity to re-organise 
the business, resulting in some senior management leaving the
business. The cost of the reorganisation incurred after the year-
end will again be shown as non-recurring administrative expenses 
for the period ending 31 May 2005. The total cost in 2005 is
expected to be in the region of  0.3m.
Discontinued operations Over the last two years I have reported
on our investment in Resolution IT Services which delivered IT projects
to customers. Despite seeing a positive performance for this business
in the first half of 2004, when market growth rates in the IT sector
moderated in the second half, our recovery in this business also
stalled. After slipping back into losses in the third quarter, we took
decisive action, first reducing staff levels and then, when the
pipeline of future prospects failed to justify continued investment,
we discontinued the operation in the fourth quarter.
Personnel
I would like to express my continued appreciation to the Group's
staff and management for their performance in the year. Their
loyalty and commitment over a time when there has been a
significant element of change has been invaluable.
Dividend 
The Board is not recommending a dividend for the year to 
28 November 2004 (2003: nil). Although the Board will continue
to review this position we do not believe a dividend will be
payable in the foreseeable future due to the Group's limited
distributable reserves.
Conclusion and Outlook
I am very pleased by the Group's financial performance for the
year and in particular in the second half after building on a strong
platform established earlier in the year.
For 2005, the largest unknown remains our Digital Printing
business where we have increased our cost base in advance of
securing new revenue streams. The nature of any investment in 
a new market carries risk but we believe the opportunity in this
area remains extremely exciting. Although we will see our costs
increasing in the first half of 2005 as a result, we believe that the
growth rates we could achieve during the year will support our
decision to expand this operation.
However, with order levels in all of our core activities higher 
than at the same time last year, we have reason to remain positive
about the future outlook.
Bert Morris
Executive Chairman
3 March 2005 
lorien plc 3
Bert Morris
Executive Chairman