 LOYALWARD GROUP Plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
 2 
The year since my last Chairman's Statement has been one of intense activity, which has resulted in significant 
progress being made towards the crystallisation of the Company's Project at Cavo Sidero, Crete. This activity has 
focused particularly on:  
 
a) The continuation of Loyalward's regular, and ongoing, discussions with the Greek Government, which has 
re-affirmed its support of Cavo Sidero and other projects of this type. This support is manifested in the 
Greek Government's progressive review of the relevant legislation and administrative procedures with the 
objective of making inward investment into Greece easier and more attractive, particularly for high quality 
tourist projects; 
 
b) The completion of the technical work required to ensure that the final shape  of the Project reflects current 
market trends; and 
 
c) As referred to below, the continuation of discussions with various organisations relevant to the 
commercialisation of the Project as a whole. 
 
Commercialisation 
Comprehensive feasibility studies have been prepared by our consultants, TRI Hospitality, for the two Phase One 
hotels i.e. the Golf and Conference Centre and the all suites  luxury hotel at Grande Bay. These studies have been 
circulated to a selected number of major international hotel groups and the responses received have exceeded all 
expectations. As a result, detailed negotiations have commenced with a number of these groups. I am confident of 
reaching agreements for the Phase One hotels with two powerful international brand names before the end of the 
year. 
The finalisation of the Resort's product mix in terms of villas and apartments, in addition to conventional hotels, is 
nearing completion and has involved detailed discussions with various market specialists and our technical advisory 
team in Greece. Discussions held with agents for the sale of residential properties have been extremely encouraging.  
In Northern Europe, particularly in Britain, t he demand for holiday homes in the Mediterranean remains very 
buoyant. With many locations in Spain and Portugal becoming fully developed, there is strong interest in new 
destinations, particularly the Eastern Mediterranean.  
Cavo Sidero will offer extensive leisure facilities to cater fully for all visitors to the Resort. Proposals from potential 
expert operators of the major facilities, e.g. golf and marina, have been received and reviewed by the Company and 
its consultants. Discussions are now in progress with certain selected operators with a view to reaching agreement 
prior to the commencement of the marketing of the Resort in Spring 2004. 
Technical 
As previously announced, the key approvals already in place for Cavo Sidero are: Preliminary Zoning Approval 
under Environmental Law, Ministry of Culture Approval and Coastal Zone Approval. In addition, we have 
established, through the courts, that the designated areas of forestry, as defined by the Ministry of Agriculture 
(Forestry Division), in no way affect the Masterplan for the Project. 
The Resort Masterplan has been revised to reflect the substantial changes that have taken place in recent years in the 
market environment as well as to take account of all the factors and conditions within the approvals received to date. 
The level of detail required by the m inisterial authorities has necessitated considerable design, landscaping, 
engineering and environmental work. Having almost completed this work, the Company is now in a position to 
proceed to the next stage of the permissions process. The next approval being sought is that of the Greek National 
Tourist Organisation (GNTO) for our Land Suitability Report. The purpose of this consent is to approve the Site for 
hotel use related to preset GNTO criteria. This consent is mainly regulatory and we expect it to be granted in the 
near future.  
At the same time as we have been preparing the Land Suitability Report, we have been finalising our Environmental 
Impact Study for submission to the Ministry of Environment and Public Works. The study follows the original 
Zoning Approval and provides additional detail as to the effect on the existing environment (flora, fauna, noise, 
water, energy, etc.) of every new construction. It is a substantial document, requiring input from a number of official 
bodies, but we are nearing its completion. The Cavo Sidero Project has been designed to ensure the maximum 
protection for the existing environment. 
Having received these approvals, the Team will move on to secure the Local Authority Building Licences for the 
first group of Phase One buildings.  LOYALWARD GROUP Plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
 3 
Project Value 
Lambert Smith Hampton are completing an updated valuation of the Project which, we are informed, will show a 
value in excess of  60m. This compares with the value range  38.7m to  43.7m given at the time of the OFEX 
listing in 1999. 
Legal Cases 
You will be aware from my last Chairman's Statement of the existence of two Greek legal cases that could impinge 
on the Project and that the Company had been advised that both cases were without merit.  
I am very pleased to announce that the action brought against Government Officials, the Board of the Foundation 
and certain directors of Loyalward Limited has, finally, been dismissed entirely and irrevocably.   
The longstanding civil case brought against the Foundation has been dismissed by the court in Piraeus and referred 
back to Lasithi, Crete where, at the instigation of the Foundation, it is due to be heard in November 2003. Legal 
opinion continues to indicate that this case is groundless in both fact and law  and will not succeed. 
Again, as stated previously, legal actions in Greece are a factor of general business life, unlike the UK, and are 
generally commenced as a first recourse  rather than a last resort . The Company has received notice recently of a 
new civil case to be brought against Loyalward Group Plc and Loyalward Limited. The Directors have sought legal 
advice and, prior to receiving a formal opinion, believe the case is groundless. 
Funding Strategy 
The Cavo Sidero Project is both large and extremely complex in financial, legal and commercial terms. The Board is 
continually reviewing the funding requirements necessary to allow it to achieve its immediate and future goals and 
the optimum way of satisfying these requirements. 
The Board remains fully committed to achieving realisable value for shareholders and it remains the intention to 
seek a listing on the Alternative Investment Market, but only at a time considered suitable by the Board and its 
advisers. 
In the short term the Company intends to announce a Placing and Open Offer to shareholders in order to raise the 
working capital required to enable its immediate objectives to be achieved. Indications from prospective placees are 
that prior commitments will be received for a substantial majority of the funds required, leaving only a small amount 
of equity uncommitted. It is proposed that the relevant documentation will be sent to shareholders in the near future. 
The Company is in ongoing discussions with banks and other institutions with a view to securing overall project 
finance as well as certain pre-development expenditure. The increased expectations in respect of all areas of the 
Project have resulted in a significantly lower borrowing requirement than previously envisaged. This, together with 
the improved legal framework in Greece, is having a positive effect on how the Cavo Sidero Project is perceived.  
Shareholder Loyalty Scheme 
The Cavo Sidero Project has taken much longer to bring to its present advanced state than was originally envisaged. 
In recognition of the patience and support of shareholders, and to provide tangible evidence of the benefits of 
holding shares in Loyalward Group Plc, the Board has decided to institute a Shareholder Loyalty Scheme. The 
details of the Scheme are currently being finalised and the relevant information will be published in the near future. 
 
Financial 
At 31 March 2003 the book value of the Cavo Sidero Project was  12,531,134 (2002 -  10,863,851). The nature of 
the Company's business means that certain expenses, although attributable to the Project in overall terms, have to be 
written off as incurred. These costs give rise to a loss for the year ended 31 March 2003 of  857,103 (2002 - 
 933,052), which is in line with the Board's expectations. 
Since my last statement the Company has issued and placed, at various prices as reported, 2,869,016 shares to both 
existing shareholders and new investors. These share issues have provided working capital for the Company and 
have satisfied various liabilities including, as reported in my letter to shareholders of 22 November 2002, which 
accompanied the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the repayment of shareholder loans and the settlement of the 
long running dispute with IAF Securities Limited. As stated above, the Board is well aware of the continued support 
and encouragement of shareholders, which has been amply demonstrated throughout the past year, and would like to 
express its appreciation thereof.  LOYALWARD GROUP Plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
 4 
Human Resources 
The Company is committed to the recruitment of high calibre staff with the required expertise in the development of 
projects of this nature. As the project advances ex isting staff and consultants are under ever increasing pressure and 
the Board expects to announce shortly certain additional key appointments.  
   
Conclusion 
The opinions of our advisers and other market experts are now beginning to reflect the long held views of the Board 
regarding the value of the Project. The commercial negotiations currently in progress indicate that construction and 
marketing will commence in 2004. The continuing positive developments mentioned above have been factored into 
our Business Plan and show a significant enhancement of Net Present Value.  
 
Christopher W Egleton 
Chairman 
28 August 2003   