 Overview Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chairman's statement
Results for the year
Manganese Bronze, along with most of our automotive peers,
has had a very challenging year with a significant downturn
in vehicle sales and margins in all markets but particularly our
core London market. This combined with the impact of the TX4
product recall has severely impacted the Group resulting in a
post exceptional loss before tax of  14.2 million (17 months
ended 31 December 2007:  4.9 million profit). This loss
includes exceptional costs of  8.1 million.
The rather unusual comparative period is caused by our decision
to align the Company's year end with that of our Chinese joint
venture, Shanghai LTI (SLTI ), and our joint venture partner, Geely.
Despite the steep losses we have continued to make good
progress at SLTI, which offers considerable opportunity to expand,
and internationalise, our product offering. In addition to business
expansion, the procurement of parts from SLTI will afford a
greater opportunity to return our UK manufacturing operations
to profitability.
The direct and indirect opportunities arising from our Chinese
operations give the Group confidence to endure what we believe
will be a continuing difficult UK market in 2009.
In the year to 31 December 2008, 1,951 new vehicles were
sold in the UK (17 months ended 31 December 2007: 4,147).
On a like-for-like basis, UK sales have declined by 37.5% due to
a combination of uncertain economic conditions and the fact that
the comparative period saw a near record sales volume following
the launch of the TX4. As reported at the half year, UK sales
performance continues to be challenging as drivers' confidence
to commit themselves to the purchase of a new taxi remains
weak due to uncertainty about the general state of the economy.
Volume in the second half was, as expected, below that of the
first half and this volume was generated with greater levels of
discounting than were prevalent in the first half of the year.
Due to our declining sales, we have instigated a rapid series
of cost reduction measures.These have included a reduction in
headcount by almost 20%, reductions in fixed costs, short-time
working, reduced daily output, and a pay reduction for all
employees and directors.
In September, LTI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Manganese
Bronze PLC, commenced a product recall following a small number
of under bonnet fires that had occurred in early production models
of the TX4 taxi. LTI has now substantially completed this recall
which included modifications to the emission control equipment,
the heat management system and under bonnet insulation.
The cost of the recall has been expensed in 2008 as an exceptional
item. The total of  3.8 million is lower than originally envisaged
in September. We are advancing well in negotiations with our
insurers, independent dealer and relevant suppliers and believe
significant opportunity exists for recovery of some of these costs.
Other exceptional costs have been incurred in the year arising from
the current economic circumstances. This includes the impairment
of the Group's investment in London Taxis North America (LTNA ),
the write down of used vehicle inventory, and redundancy costs.
LTNA impairments of  3.2 million include  2.2 million impairment
of goodwill and other intangible assets and  1.0 million
reduction in vehicle valuations. The valuation of our UK used
vehicle inventory has also been written down by  0.7 million
to  3.4 million (2007:  2.6 million) and redundancy costs
of  0.4 million have been incurred to reduce our cost base.
Total headcount (including temporary employees) has reduced
from 469 at 31 December 2007 to 389 at 31 December 2008.
Funding/dividend
There has been a net cash outflow of  9.1 million in the year
largely arising from the loss net of depreciation and impairment
of  5.6 million, working capital increase of  1.4 million, pension
contributions of  1.2 million and dividends of  0.9 million.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had net cash resources of
 1.3 million (2007:  10.3 million) and the Group's stocking loan,
an asset finance facility secured on the stock of finished vehicles,
was utilised up to a level of  8.4 million (2007:  7.0 million).
The Group has a  2.5 million (2007:  2.5 million) overdraft
facility provided by HSBC Bank plc. This facility has been renewed
up to the 31 December 2009, which included the additional
requirement for the provision of security by way of debenture over
the Group's assets. Discussions with HSBC with regard to future
borrowings have been positive and no matters have been drawn
to our attention to suggest that renewal may not be forthcoming.
This charge has been approved by the Group's old closed pension
fund trustees as well as by the Pension Regulator. An important
aspect of this approval was the Group's agreement not to pay a
final ordinary dividend for 2008. We intend to renew dividend
payments as soon as practicable from underlying net profits
provided sufficient Company distributable reserves exist.
The Group's asset finance facilities comprise a stocking loan facility
of  13.0 million (31 December 2007:  13.4 million) which is
provided by the Lloyds Banking Group PLC and attracts interest
linked to the Finance House Base Rate. This facility has been
renewed for the period to 31 March 2010.
Following the announcement by H.M. Government of its intention
to provide working capital finance to the UK automotive industry,
additional financing facilities that may be required to support our
future environmental initiatives and mitigate potential additional
risk, have been sought, with the assistance of HSBC, under the
Loan Guarantee Scheme as well as under the special assistance
scheme for the UK automotive industries.
The Group's relationships with its bankers remain good, despite
the challenging business and economic circumstances, with
non-utilised facilities of  8.4 million at 31 December 2008
(2007:  8.9 million), including  4.6 million under the stocking
loan facility which can be utilised providing suitable vehicles are
available as security.
03 Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
04
Overview
Chairman's statement continued
Progress on China and international sales
Our joint venture in China, Shanghai LTI, offers the best potential
to secure the long-term profitable future for the Group. The joint
venture will allow us to solve our strategic issues in relation to
significantly reducing the cost base both internationally from
Shanghai and in the UK, and our over-reliance on a single market.
This should enable growth in international sales and a return to
profitability for the UK operation. I am, therefore, very pleased to
report good progress with start of prototype production, as planned,
in June 2008 and the announcement by SLTI of commercial
production in January-2009. The Shanghai produced diesel
powered TX4 has passed European homologation which is
an excellent achievement. The thorough programme of testing
is moving toward completion with vehicles being prepared for
dealerships ready for the launch of the vehicle at the Shanghai
Motor Show in April.
We have already signed memoranda of understanding (MoU ) for
a total of 8,000 vehicles, produced by SLTI in Shanghai, over three
years with delivery starting in mid-2009. Close to 200 of these
vehicles are currently secured by firm contracts. The conversion rate
of MoUs to firm contracts has been impacted by our international
partners finding it harder to meet our order funding requirements
of payment in advance or letters of credit. Additionally, the decline
in the value of sterling against both the Chinese Reminbi (RMB )
and US dollar may reduce margins on international sales.
People
Our people have risen to the dual challenges of the difficult UK
market and supporting the development of SLTI against a backdrop
of significant redundancies, short-time working and pay constraints.
The overall headcount has reduced from 469 including temporary
workers in December 2007 to 389 in December 2008. In the
12-month period under review a total of six weeks' production
has been taken out, comprising three complete weeks and three
weeks from reduced-time working. During these periods our
production staff were not fully paid, in accordance with the terms
of union agreements.
From the beginning of February 2009, all employees (including
executive and non-executive directors) have agreed a 10% reduction
in salary. This position will be reviewed at the half-year. A scheme
has been put in place for employees to earn back this reduction in
the event of the Group's cash generation exceeding expectations.
This is a vital and challenging stage in our development, and
I would like to pay tribute to all our employees for their skill,
flexibility, resourcefulness and commitment.
Current trading and prospects
Due to the current economic situation forecasting has become
far more difficult. Sales volumes in the UK in the first two months
of 2009, which are typically low sales months, were down 18%
on last year, with total sales (including exports) up 19%. This is
in line with our expectations. Despite the benefit of cost savings
generated in 2008, the ramp up of procurement saving from
Chinese parts and additional cost savings targeted for 2009,
the UK business is expected to be challenging in both margin
and volume terms.
Shanghai LTI remains on plan to deliver a step change in the
Group's prospects and financial performance. International sales
will ramp up from the second half of 2009 and will be of greater
significance with a full year impact from 2010 onwards.
Tim Melville-Ross
Chairman
4 March 2009