 Chairman's Statement
In what has been an unusual and challenging year
in terms of trading conditions, it is pleasing to
have again achieved record sales and profits.
Turnover in the twelve months to 31 December
2002 increased by 4.3 per cent to  342.1 million
(2001:  328.0 million). Operating profit in the 
period increased by 11.0 per cent  to  50.3 million
(2001:  45.3 million). Taking into account the  2.3
million profit on the disposal of the Flooring 
business, explained later in my statement, the
Group profit before tax at  49.4 million (2001:
 42.7 million) was 15.6 per cent above 2001.
All Divisions achieved sales growth. Landscape
Products increased by 2.8 per cent, Clay Products 
by 2.9 per cent and Natural Stone Products, with a
full year contribution from Stancliffe Stone, by 
27.6 per cent. Emerging Businesses, including the 
contribution from the Flooring business sold after
eleven months, increased sales by 2.7 per cent.
The remaining Emerging Businesses, increased
sales by 12.7 per cent.
Group Overview
Had it not been for the impact of the Jubilee 
celebrations and the World Cup in June 2002, to
which we referred at the half year, orders in the
pipeline suggest that sales would have been 
considerably higher. Customer demand remains
strong and as a consequence of the backlog of
domestic work that has built up during the year,
the installers of our products began 2003 with
healthy order books. The commercial and public
sector markets, where our experience was similar
to the domestic market, also remain strong.
Landscape Products Division
The Division achieved sales of  254.5 million, 2.8
per cent ahead of last year. Sales in the month of
June were more than  6 million lower than the 
previous year due to the impact of the special
events referred to above.
5 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2002
The market intelligence we gain through regular
contact with our network of approved Registered
Installers confirms that the domestic demand for
our products remains buoyant. Sales to the 
commercial and public sectors grew by 4 per cent
in the full year. This compares with forecast total
growth in the construction industry of 7 per cent.
These figures suggest that we could see the
impact of this higher industry growth during 2003
as our products tend to be installed towards the
end of most construction projects.
Clay Products Division
The Division increased sales by 2.9 per cent to 
 30.3 million in the full year. The second half sales
growth was slightly stronger than the first six
months. Sales of bricks through the Landscape
Products Division Service Centres continue to
increase as a percentage of total sales which
implies that our performance in the repair and
maintenance sector is currently better than 
new build.
Chineham Court, Basingstoke. Clay Pavers Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2002 6
Natural Stone Division
This is the first year we have disclosed separately
the results for this part of our business. It includes
our own natural stone products, imported stone
paving and granite products, and aggregates
from our own quarries. Sales of this new Division
amounted to  25.0 million, an increase of 27.6
per cent over 2001. This includes a full year
contribution from Stancliffe Stone, acquired in
June 2001. Organic growth in sales was
14.0 per cent.
Emerging Businesses Division
The sales of this Division, which now exclude 
natural stone and related products, amounted to
 32.3 million in the year. Only eleven months
sales of Flooring are included because, on 29
November 2002, we sold the business to Hanson
Building Products, as we did not see the prospect
of Marshalls establishing a major market presence
in this sector. The price obtained was  13.1 
million. In addition, we have received the surplus
funds that have arisen from the 
collection of debtors and payment of creditors.
Sales from the remaining Emerging Businesses, on
a like for like basis, increased by 12.7 per cent.
Balance Sheet
The Group balance sheet remains exceptionally
strong. The net borrowings at the year end of
 17.9 million (2001:  12.9 million) represents 
gearing of 8.8 per cent (2001: 6.9 per cent). This
position has been affected by a combination of
our continuing capital investment programme, an
acquisition and higher stock levels which have
been partially offset by the cash inflow from the
disposal of our Flooring business. Cash inflow
from operating activities amounted to  54.6 
million (2001:  70.7 million).
The main change from 2001 relates to an increase
in stock levels of  8.6 million. The higher stock 
levels are predominantly in the Landscape
Products Division and relate to the special events
in the summer and the slower recovery in the
third quarter. Only in September did sales return
to more normal levels and stock levels start to
reduce. Initiatives have been established to
reduce stock to target levels in 2003.
Investment and Disposals
The Group continued to invest significantly in its
capital expenditure programme, spending  36.5
million (2001:  31.3 million). In addition in
December 2002 a small sand and gravel business
was acquired for  4.8 million.
On 29 November 2002 the Group disposed of its
Flooring business which manufactures pre-cast
concrete flooring, to Hanson Building Products,
part of Hanson PLC for cash proceeds of  13.1 
million and commenced the closure of a related
Heritage Octant, Yorkstone
Millstone Flags, Olde London. Cottage Garden Bricks, Rose Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2002 7
business on the same manufacturing site. The
gain on disposal and termination of business of
 2.3 million is disclosed net of goodwill of  1.5
million previously eliminated against reserves.
Dividend
The Board has decided to recommend a final 
dividend of 6.70p (2001: 6.35p) per ordinary share
making a total of 10.00p (2001: 9.50p) for the year,
an increase of 5.3 per cent compared with 2001.
The dividend will be paid on 7 July 2003 to 
Shareholders on the Register on 6 June 2003. The
ex-dividend date will be 4 June 2003.
Outlook
We enter the new financial year with installers
having good domestic order books. Whilst 
general economic conditions are expected to be
more difficult in 2003, the prospects for the UK
construction industry should still remain good in
view of public sector spending plans. With this in
mind, and the developments we have in place for
all our Divisions, we are looking forward to 
another successful year.
Board
In 2002, Marshalls enjoyed its sixth year of 
continued sales and profit growth. Marshalls
today comprises a group of strong, focussed and
complementary businesses and is in extremely
good shape, with a very strong balance sheet and
leading market positions in a number of growing
markets. It is therefore my wish, by the end of
2003, or as soon thereafter as possible, to step
down as Chairman of the Group. It remains my
objective to tackle one more corporate 
turnaround or transformation before hanging up
my running shoes. I want the time to find that
opportunity and then meet the challenge.
The Board have decided that, in accordance with
best practice, and the recommendation of the
Higgs Report, we should take this opportunity to
separate the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
It is very pleasing to me to report to you that the 
Board have decided that Graham Holden,
currently Chief Executive of the Landscape
Products Division, will become Group Chief
Executive when I step down as Executive
Chairman of the Group. Graham joined Marshalls
in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1992 as
Finance Director. He  became Chief Executive of
the Landscape Products Division in November
2000 and has significantly improved the 
performance of that Division since his 
appointment. We have already commenced the
search for a new Managing Director of Marshalls
Landscape Products who will be expected to join
the Board on appointment.
In addition, we have commenced the search for a
new Non-Executive Chairman who, together with
Graham and the Board, will ensure that we 
continue to deliver superior value for our
Shareholders.
There will also be the need to appoint two new
independent non-executive directors. Michael
Stacey, one of our non-executive directors,
recently resigned from the Board having 
completed one three year term. He also resigned
from another public company, of which he had
been a non-executive director, in order to pursue 
opportunities in the private equity market. His
contribution to our business will be missed.
John Footman was appointed to the Board in
1996 after retiring as a director of Wolseley Plc.
He has served two terms as a non-executive 
director of Marshalls plc. In accordance with best
practice, and the recommendations of the Higgs
Report, he will not therefore be standing for 
re-election. His detailed knowledge of the
Industry and contribution to the Board will also 
be missed.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all 
our management and employees throughout
the Group for their excellent contribution during
the year.
Christopher Burnett
Executive Chairman