 Matchtech Group plc
04
Annual Report 2011
The investment proposition
 > Well balanced Broad spread of sectors, clients and relationships
 > Established Strong track record of organic NFI and profit growth
 > Flexible Efficient systems and high operational flexibility
 > Resilient Matchtech UK - Single site technical contract business model
 > Contractors Record number on assignment
 > Permanent Fees Capability and resource to increase rapidly
 > International Expanding into selected markets
Chairman's Statement
together well through what has been and 
remains a period of significant change for  
the Group.
The Board is very conscious of the important 
roles that all our employees play in the 
success of the business.
We are a people business and our staff are 
our most important asset. We continue to 
develop strong people strategies to aid the 
wellbeing and development of our staff and 
are always striving for the Group to be a fun, 
vibrant and happy workplace.
The Board pays tribute to all our staff for 
their hard work and dedication, particularly 
through what have been challenging 
economic times.
The Board would also like to thank our loyal and 
hard-working contractors who have provided 
our clients with an exemplary service.
Board and Corporate Governance 
Since the year end, on 3 August 2011, Richard 
Bradford joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director.
Richard brings additional recruitment sector 
expertise as the former Chief Executive of AIM 
listed Carlisle Group over an 11 year period, up 
to and including the merger to create Impellam 
15% from 5,200 at 31 January 2011 to 6,000 
at 31 July 2011. This resulted in an increase of 
 11m in monthly billings (including VAT) from 
 21m in January 2011 to  32m in July 2011.
Because the Group pays its contractors 
before it is paid by its customers, the 
resulting increase in debtors, and hence 
working capital requirement, has increased 
net debt to  16.0m at 31 July 2011 (31 
January 2011:  4.8m, 31 July 2010:  4.5m). 
Dividend
Reflecting our confidence in the future and 
the strength and resilience of the business, 
the Board is pleased to propose, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, a final dividend for the year of 
10.6 pence per share, which makes a total 
dividend for the year of 15.6 pence per share 
(2010: 15.6 pence) covered 1.3 times (2010: 
1.7 times) by earnings.
People
The Group Executive Team was expanded in 
2010 with the external appointment of Nigel 
Lynn (Managing Director of Barclay Meade 
& Alderwood Education) and Peter Collis 
(Managing Director of elemense), to join Keith 
Lewis (Managing Director of Matchtech UK) and 
David Rees (Group HR & Training Director). 
Together with Adrian Gunn, our CEO, and 
Tony Dyer, our CFO, the team has come 
Trading Performance
The Board is encouraged with the Group's 
overall performance in the year ended 31 
July 2011, especially in the second half of the 
year.  Revenue for the year increased by 14% 
to  301.8m (2010:  264.4m), with Net Fee 
Income (NFI) growing 14% to  29.8m (2010: 
 26.2m). Profit from operations in H2 was 
 4.3m, up 72% from H1  2.5m and back  
to the levels achieved in 2010 (H1:  4.5m,  
H2:  4.3m).
The Group's ability to respond quickly to 
market opportunities was demonstrated 
by permanent fee growth of 54% (2011: 
 9.4m; 2010:  6.1m) and a record number of 
contractors on assignment (July 2011: 6,000; 
January 2011: 5,200; July 2010: 5,100). 
Profits were impacted by a  4.9m investment 
in our growth strategies, with profit from 
operations of  6.8m, down 23% on 2010. 
Further information is provided in the Chief 
Financial Officer's Report.
After interest expense of  0.4m, (2010: 
 0.2m), profit before tax was  6.4m, down 
26% (2010:  8.6m).
Cash Flow & Net Debt
As reported above, the volume of activity has 
grown significantly in H2 over H1, as evidenced 
by an increase in contractors on assignment of  Matchtech Group plc
05
Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Group plc. He is currently Chief Executive of 
UK based InHealth Group, a leading provider of 
diagnostics and imaging services. 
This year I have reported separately on 
Corporate Governance in a Letter from the 
Chairman on page 34 of this report.
Markets
In my Chairman's Statement last year I wrote 
about the uncertain outlook ahead of the 
Government's Comprehensive Spending 
Review on 20 October 2010, with an 
expectation of significant Public Sector 
spending cuts.
The outcome of the Review was generally 
favourable to the Group's clients, with the 
confirmed build of the two QE Class aircraft 
carriers and the committed investment of 
 30bn in transport infrastructure, including 
Crossrail and the London Underground.
The Board remains watchful of the risks to 
the business with the full effects of spending 
cuts and tax increases still to filter through to 
the economy.
Whilst the economic climate remains subdued, 
we are seeing improvement in some areas 
where the Group is a market leader, including 
IT, Professional Services and Engineering for 
Permanent staff and Engineering and IT for 
Temporary and Contract staff.
All sectors within the Group have progressed 
well in the year showing good growth in NFI, 
with the exception of the elemense brand, 
where the NFI reduction was essentially due  
to a change in the trading arrangement with  
our largest client at the start of the 2011 
financial year, whereby all the NFI is now 
accounted for in Matchtech UK.
Strategy
Growing the Group's core technical base 
remains central to our business plan.
Matchtech UK, which represents 79% of  
the Group's NFI, offers a resilient and  
robust platform.
Finding candidates and contractors with the 
right skills at the right time can sometimes be 
difficult, and there is still a skills shortage in 
some areas of the technical arena.
We have built on our strong existing client 
relationships and taken the business into new 
markets where the Board believes there are 
opportunities for further growth.
Importantly, Matchtech UK, benefiting 
from the skills and experience of its staff, 
our efficient processes and IT systems has 
maintained a high rate of conversion of NFI 
to profit from operations of 43.6% (2010: 
41.9%). 
We believe that our solid foundation, years 
of experience in this market and excellent 
customer service will enable us to continue 
to grow organically as the economy recovers. 
Over the coming years we will be looking at 
more opportunities to take this expertise into 
further overseas technical markets where 
we believe we can replicate the success of 
Matchtech in the UK. 
Trading in Germany continues to gain 
momentum. We are now starting to make good 
progress within the Aerospace sector with a 
number of key Preferred Supplier contract 
wins which are fuelling our contractor growth. 
Developing a presence in the Automotive 
sector has been more challenging as client 
relationships have been slower to build.
Diversifying into new sectors under the 
Professional Services brands of Barclay Meade 
and Alderwood Education will give additional 
growth opportunities. In their first year, both 
new brands have made significant inroads 
into the market and are quickly establishing 
themselves as experts in their fields. 
Professional Services' NFI was  4.3m, up 43% 
(2010:  3.0m) and represented 14% of the 
Group's NFI (2010: 11%).
Adding value to our clients through our 
elemense brand will increase opportunities 
for the Group as a whole, while it also 
contributes through its own direct delivery. 
As I commented on above, our strategy of 
investing in and growing our sales force this 
year has started to show results with profit 
from operations of  4.3m in the second half 
of the year returning to the similar levels as 
seen in the previous two half years (2010 H1: 
 4.5m, 2010 H2:  4.3m).
Our sector diversification and the first steps 
towards building an international network 
reflect our commitment to delivering long-
term success and growth for our business, and 
the Board is focused on achieving this with 
acceptable levels of risk.
Outlook
In our Pre-close Trading Update on 4 August 
2011, we referred to the uncertain economic 
backdrop.  Since then this has become more 
uncertain but, to date, this has not manifested 
itself in the markets in which we operate.
Trading for the first two months of the 
current year has been in line with the Board's 
expectations with a continued increase in 
contractor numbers, up 5% on 31 July 2011, 
and permanent fees up 18% on the same 
period last year.  We are mindful that client 
sentiment can change rapidly as the economic 
backdrop alters but, with the benefit of last 
year's investment in place and business 
momentum beginning to come through as 
new staff increase their productivity, the 
Board remains cautiously optimistic that the 
business will deliver a strong performance this 
year, albeit again weighted to the second half.  
Overall, with the new structure now in place 
the Board is confident that the Group will 
continue to progress well over the coming 
years.
 
George Materna
Chairman
5 October 2011
Growing the Group's core technical base is 
central to our business plan. We have built 
on our strong existing client relationships 
and taken the business into new markets 
where the Board believes there are 
opportunities for further growth.