 Financial Performance
It has been a challenging year for The Maverick Group Plc (  Maverick'') and our results, as reported in the
Board Change announcement of 6 February 2004, show the expected loss. However, as stated at the
time, the Board remains confident that the continuing outlook for the Company is positive. The
production of Muffin the Mule is on schedule and on budget and the commercial launch of Snailsbury
Tales videos/DVDs and books is underway. We have also launched two new DVD/video catalogues as
a result of our exclusive UK and Ireland distribution agreements with Nelvana, a subsidiary of the
Canadian company Corus Entertainment, Inc., and Millimages S.A., both of which were announced in
September 2003. The Board believes that we are well placed to drive the business forward.
For the year ended 31 December 2003 turnover declined by 82.7% to  256,000 (2002:
 1,480,000). This resulted in a loss before tax of  903,000 compared to a profit of  261,000 in
2002. Loss per share for the period was 0.4214p compared to earnings per share of 0.1723p in 2002.
These losses were, in part, due to the expiration of a contract for the distribution rights to a significant
DVD/video catalogue and the subsequent loss of income. Although we have since replaced this with new
catalogues, as previously mentioned, revenue from these catalogues will only start to impact in the current
financial year. The agreement with Nelvana is for the exclusive UK distribution rights for 33 series of
programming including titles such as Little Bear, Fairly Odd Parents and Rolie Polie Olie which will
come on stream in May 2004.
Additionally the 2003 financial year included the first full year of amortisation for Snailsbury Tales
compared to seven months in 2002.
In 2004 and 2005 the Company will focus on its core business in DVD/video distribution and book
publishing while continuing the production of Muffin the Mule which is due to be delivered to the BBC
in 2005. The Company will also be reviewing its overheads and costs in line with business activity.
Snailsbury Tales
Snailsbury Tales, the Company's first animated production was successfully completed in May 2002 and
was first broadcast in the UK and Australia in July 2002. The Company is particularly pleased with
audience reaction to the programme. Due to its success, Snailsbury Tales was re-broadcast by the BBC
between October and December 2003 and it again achieved high viewing figures. In the period October
to December 2003 when the programme was transmitted on BBC2 it achieved average viewing figures of
226,000 per episode which made it the most viewed children's programme on average per episode in the
UK during that period. (Source: BARB). The commercial launch of the programme is underway with the
launch of DVD and publishing titles in the UK expected in May 2004. In Australia, a full consumer
products launch commenced in the last quarter of 2003, with the retail release of books, videos and
plush merchandising through our licensee and broadcaster the Australian Broadcasting Corporation
(  ABC'').
Muffin the Mule
In January 2003 Maverick was granted an exclusive license to produce a new animated series based on
Muffin the Mule and to exploit all ancillary intellectual property rights in the representation of the
character. In April 2003 the Company reached an agreement with the BBC to produce 26 ten minute
episodes of a new animated series. In September Maverick conducted a successful placing which raised
 2,067,000, primarily to fund its production, which is now underway.
We are very pleased with the progress of the production and with the quality of the animation to date
and we are confident that the production will be completed on time and on budget.
We are delighted to announce that the BBC has commissioned a further 14 ten minute episodes of the
programme for delivery in 2005 bringing the total production up to 40 ten minute episodes. This
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT represents a major vote of confidence by the BBC in the production of Muffin the Mule and is confirmation
of the Company's view on the quality of the animation.
The Company believes that the high level of interest that has so far been shown in Muffin augers well for
its future commercial success as a major international children's brand and as such we believe it will deliver
long term value to the Company and its shareholders. Muffin is an extremely well known children's
character and 2006 will mark the 60th anniversary of its first broadcast on the BBC. The new Muffin
series is anticipated to commence transmission in the autumn of 2005 and it is hoped that the new
series will be part of the special programming planned by the BBC to mark the anniversary.
Bananas in Pyjamas
The live show tour commenced in February 2004 and we are very pleased with the initial response and
attendance figures. Between February and December 2004 shows will take place in 82 regional theatres
across the UK with an anticipated audience of over 75,000. The live shows will serve to increase
awareness of the characters and the re-launched licensing programme is expected to have a positive
impact on the Company's business. Bananas in Pyjamas merchandise, toys and books are being sold in
the theatres at present and we expect to launch the merchandise in shops in 2004. Maverick owns the
UK IPR to the show and revenue from ticket and merchandise sales have been positive.
Maverick currently distributes ABC Bananas in Pyjamas books for which it receives a royalty, but, with the
launch of its own in-house publishing business, Maverick will take over the UK publishing this year and
launch its own titles.
DVD/video business
During 2003 Maverick secured two exclusive long-term DVD/video distribution agreements which give
the Company distribution rights to over 200 hours of high quality children's programming.
The agreement with Nelvana is for the exclusive distribution rights to 33 series in the UK and Ireland and
gives Maverick the first option to negotiate distribution terms for all new Nelvana products for the term of
the contract.
The agreement with Millimages S.A., a leading French animation company, is for the exclusive UK and
Ireland DVD/video distribution rights to three programmes   64 Zoo Lane (BBC), Jasper the Penguin
and Hilltop Hospital (ITV) and the BAFTA Award winning Pablo the Little Red Fox (BBC)   which have
already been shown on UK television.
The initial launch of these catalogues took place in April 2004 and there will be an ongoing release of
products from these two catalogues over the next five years. This gives the Company an extremely strong
portfolio of children's programming for distribution in the DVD/video market and we expect to see strong
sales.
The directors believe that the significant growth of the UK DVD market in recent years will be of major
benefit presenting growth opportunities for the Company in both distribution rights and sales of our own
productions such as Muffin the Mule and Snailsbury Tales. The Company also intends to devise added
value publishing packages specifically for the UK market in conjunction with retailers for these
catalogues. We also plan to continue developing DVD/video distribution and publishing relationships
and to acquire further distribution assets.
Publishing
I am delighted to announce the creation of a book publishing division to complement the Company's on-
going development and acquisition of IPR. We believe that having such a business in-house compared to
licensing out to a third party publisher will allow us to achieve higher margins and we will also be able to
control the publishing sales, marketing and distribution of our own characters. This business will initially
focus on Snailsbury Tales and Bananas in Pyjamas characters and on Muffin the Mule at the time of its
commercial launch. This will also give the Company the ability to license in publishing IPR from third
parties. We believe that the development of this business will be a benefit to the Company in the
future and widen its distribution portfolio. The first  in-house' publication will be a range of Snailsbury
Tales books which will be published by ourselves and on retail sale in June 2004. We have high hopes
4 based on initial retail feedback of achieving widespread distribution for our products. Additionally we will
also be publishing a Bananas in Pyjamas range of books to capitalise on the renewed activity and
increased awareness of the character.
The Board
We announced on 6 February 2004 that John Howson had retired from the post of Chief Executive and
was replaced by Mike Diprose who stepped up from the position of Managing Director. The Company
wishes to thank John for his period in office and for his role as a founding director of the Company.
In December 2003, the Company also announced the resignation of Non-Executive Director and
Company Secretary, Jeffrey Hodson. We would also like to thank Jeffrey for his contribution over the
past four years and wish him well. The Company will be appointing an additional independent non-
executive director in 2004.
Outlook
We believe we have taken the appropriate steps to improve the Company's trading position going
forward. The strong focus on DVD/video distribution and book publishing will give the Company a solid
foundation from which to grow and we are confident that we will see an improvement in 2004. Muffin
the Mule and Snailsbury Tales are important assets; there has been significant interest in Muffin and we are
confident that the new series of programmes and associated merchandise will be a success. Snailsbury
Tales has been very popular with audiences and we look forward to the further development and
consolidation of the IPR both in terms of merchandise and international sales.
The Company's strategy remains the investment, development and distribution of IPR, and the creation
and exploitation of our own long-term brands, which we believe will provide for the continuing growth
of the business. In line with this strategy we have appointed a dedicated marketing manager to support
the development of the Muffin the Mule and Snailsbury Tales brands as well as co-ordinating sales and
marketing activity with both Nelvana and Millimages.
The Directors believe that the Company is in a good position to meet its ongoing objectives and look
forward to reporting progress in the next period.
D J Morris
Chairman
7 June 2004
5