 Anpario performed strongly in the year to  
31 December 2012, both in the UK and 
Internationally, again delivering an excellent set 
of results. This outturn demonstrates the quality 
of our strategy, built on delivering performance 
through a combination of organic growth and 
selective acquisitions. The results include a maiden 
nine month contribution from Meriden Animal 
Health Limited (Meriden ), which was acquired 
at the end of March 2012. Meriden's performance 
has been most encouraging and in line with our 
expectations; the business has added its leading 
natural product brand to our extensive range 
while also extending our global market share. The 
acquisition of Meriden was financed entirely from 
Anpario's own cash resources and was immediately 
earnings enhancing.
Our focus continues to be on delivering organic 
growth through carefully and selectively building 
Anpario's presence in those regions and countries 
which offer the greatest potential for the Group. 
This plan encompasses the recruitment of local 
account managers and establishing subsidiaries 
or joint ventures locally to support our distribution 
network.
Financial Review
Profit after tax for the year to 31 December 2012 
increased by 24 per cent to  2.1m (2011:  1.7m) on 
sales up by 22 per cent at  23.5m (2011:  19.2m). 
Underlying earnings per share
2
 increased by 49% 
to 13.32p (2011: 8.94p) and diluted underlying 
earnings per share
2
 increased by 44% to 12.73p 
(2011: 8.87p). There was also advance in gross profit, 
which was ahead by 33% to  7.7m (2011:  5.8m) 
reflecting the contribution from Meriden's portfolio, 
production efficiencies and a richer product mix in 
the UK.
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 advanced by 39% to  3.1m (2011: 
 2.2m), while like-for-like adjusted EBITDA (excluding 
Meriden) improved 18% to  2.6m (2011:  2.2m). 
An impairment of  0.7m has been recognised 
in the accounts in respect of capitalised legacy 
expenditure on the development of Aquatice, our 
aquaculture brand. This relates to uncertainty
over the generation of future economic benefit 
deriving from certain aspects of expenditure 
incurred prior to March 2009. Legal and professional 
costs of  0.4m have been incurred in respect of the 
acquisition of Meriden and purchasing the non-
controlling interest in our South African subsidiary. 
The Group has benefited from prior year tax
adjustments totalling  0.9m relating to the use of 
losses and research and development tax credits.
The balance sheet remains strong and debt free 
with a year end cash balance of  3.7m (2011: 
 4.4m) after a net cash outlay of  2.6m to acquire 
Meriden and associated costs.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final 
dividend of 3p per share, an increase of 25% over 
the previous year's payment of 2.4p. Shareholder 
approval will be sought at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM ), to be held on 27 June 2013, to
pay the final dividend on 28 July 2013 to 
shareholders on the register on 5 July 2013.
Operations - International Agriculture
Significant growth was achieved during the year by 
our operations in the key markets of Latin America 
and Asia Pacific which, along with the Middle East, 
have produced double digit percentage advances 
in profitability compared with the previous twelve 
months. These territories, including China, will 
continue to be regions of priority as the
combination of their size, population growth, 
increasing economic affluence and demand 
for meat protein, offer great potential for our 
agricultural sector.
China is the Group's number one priority country, 
where poultry production is greater than Europe's 
output and pig production is double that of Europe. 
Our subsidiary in China delivered sales growth of 
122% compared with the level of the previous year. 
This subsidiary is now making a positive contribution 
and generating cash for the Group. The
Kiotechagil brand is now firmly established in the 
five key Chinese provinces that we have focused 
on since launch. In 2013 the business will continue 
to concentrate on increasing market penetration, 
as well as selective expansion into other provinces. 
In addition, the Optivite brand will be introduced to 
China in order to target a different market
segment using a separate distribution channel. 
Solid foundations have now been built and we look 
forward to further success in this crucial market.
The Middle East remains an important market 
and we are heartened by a number of sound 
performances in that region which have been 
achieved despite the political uncertainty in some 
countries. European markets continue to be
challenging as economic growth remains generally 
low with little early prospect of improvement. We 
are striving to build Anpario's business in Europe 
through innovation, marketing and a relentless focus 
on growth and margin opportunities. Responding 
to regional issues is a feature of being a global 
business and as can be seen in the Group's
financial results, the resilience of our business is 
Anpario plc
4
Chairman's statement
Annual Report and Accounts  
for the year ended 31 December 2012 underpinned by its broad geographic spread and 
the stability of the global agricultural sector as a 
whole.
A feature of our international expansion has been 
our strategy of building local presence in key 
territories. We have embarked on a process of 
regionalisation whereby account management 
teams are now organised to focus on a specific 
area. Working with our partners and distribution 
network we are establishing local operations where
appropriate. This approach is enabling the 
Group to be much closer to its customers and 
end markets, allowing us to better understand 
the local market and through short lines of 
communication, respond rapidly to opportunities 
and changing circumstances. In addition, the 
Group will increasingly concentrate its resources 
on those countries that offer the greatest potential 
for sales and profit growth, thereby improving the 
management of these high potential markets. We 
have already experienced success as a result of 
these changes which is reinforcing our efforts to
accelerate the process.
The Group also has an additional presence in China 
through Meriden's distributor based in Guangzhou. 
Meriden China has strong representation with 
the top twenty feed mills and has continued to 
grow its business. Our central technical team has 
been working with Meriden to develop some 
new products to help broaden its range. The initial 
testing ground has been with the Meriden Australia 
joint venture, where some new products have 
recently been launched. Meriden is performing well 
and has opened up new markets on the African 
continent.
Our aquaculture interests, formerly a separate 
division developing and marketing the Aquatice
 
 
brand, have now been combined with those of 
Meriden. This logical development will be more 
financially efficient and allow greater sales focus as 
Aquatice
 
 is marketed alongside Meriden's Orego-
Stim
 
, Aquatract and Phyconomix. Customer trials
are continuing with all three brands in South East 
Asia and although significant sales growth is some 
way off, we do believe farmers will gradually 
adopt these innovative products into their fish farm 
feeding regimes.
Operations - UK Agriculture
This Division has made excellent progress 
throughout the year with growth in sales and gross 
profit reflecting the repositioning of the business to 
focus on value-added products. Towards the end of 
the year, the Division took steps to target the home-
mix market more aggressively by recruiting specific 
resource to provide a focused service and
support for home-mix customers. Entry into this 
market will help to diversify the revenue stream and 
strengthen our product and service offering.
Economic pressures within the UK organic animal 
feed market have persisted and year-on-year 
industry processing numbers fell by 20%. Vitrition, our 
Organic Division, has defied the trend and through 
strong control of its cost base has capitalised on 
operational improvements and specific targeting to 
successfully broaden and diversify its customer
base. The Division delivered an exceptional set 
of results, with operating profit increasing by 70%. 
Vitrition is a leading player in this market and 
is committed to supplying the organic meat 
production industry and consolidating its
market share.
Central operations
The efficiency improvements implemented over 
the past two years in our UK production plant 
have further enhanced operational gearing and, 
coupled with volume increases, the Group has 
significantly benefited from these changes.
Further modest investment is currently being made 
in the UK with the introduction of a process control 
and inventory management system, which will 
streamline our production process further and 
automate certain functions.
Product development for all the brands is on-
going and a feature of our growth strategy; it 
is expected to underpin the momentum of our 
trading businesses as the pipeline of new products is 
selectively and carefully launched into the
market. This process has already begun and is 
showing promise as some of these new products 
start to increase their contribution to Group sales. 
In addition, there has been restructuring of the 
technical team to make it better able to
support the sales teams and end users.
Marketing of our products and trading brands 
is extremely important in the global agricultural 
market and having absorbed Meriden's marketing 
expertise, the decision has been taken to 
strengthen and expand the marketing function. 
A recruitment programme is now underway to 
appoint a brand manager for each of the Group's 
trading brands. These brand managers will work 
closely with the sales teams to raise the profile of 
our marketing activities and consequently increase 
customer awareness of what we have to offer 
markets around the globe.
Anpario plc
5
Annual Report and Accounts  
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Anpario plc
6
Outlook
The Group has a made a strong start to the current 
year with sales growth across all divisions. Our focus 
continues to drive organic growth by aggressively 
pursuing market share in key target regions and 
capitalising on the operational gearing that our 
scalable production plants offer. Whilst geopolitical 
and financial concerns remain, the resilience of
our business, with its geographic spread, will help 
to offset these regional factors. The Group is very 
well positioned to capitalise on the opportunities 
in all its markets. The balance sheet remains strong 
with no debt and the cash generative nature of 
the business allows us to make those selective 
investments and earnings enhancing acquisitions
which will drive progress and continue to enhance 
shareholder value.
Richard S Rose
Chairman
17 April 2013 
Chairman's statement continued
Annual Report and Accounts  
for the year ended 31 December 2012