 8 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Chairman's introduction
Our successful strategy of developing deep
relationships with our clients means that over
95% of our revenues come from long-term
contracts, resulting in very dependable 
income streams. 
Whilst the economic climate is challenging, 
our business model remains robust. 
Our markets provide us with highly visible
earnings and are resilient to the effects of 
the current economic climate. 
Performance
This is the tenth consecutive year that 
May Gurney has achieved record levels 
of both turnover and underlying profits. 
T urnover has grown by 8% to  470.3 million 
and underlying EBITA
6
has increased by 16% 
to  20.5 million - representing an operating
margin of 4.4%. This consistent performance
has encouraged our Board to recommend 
a final dividend of 3.4 pence per share, 
resulting in a total for the year of 5.125 pence
per share, up 11% compared to 2008.
Our success has been achieved through a
combination of organic growth and earnings
enhancing acquisitions. During the year we
acquired ECT Recycling, a leading provider in
the local government environmental services
market, focusing on household waste collection
and recycling through long-term contracts. 
The acquisition complemented our existing
municipal waste business, extended our 
long-term relationships to a wider portfolio of
local authorities and enables us to offer wider
services to our existing clients. Since the 
year-end, we have extended our existing 
long-term relationship with Essex County 
Council by winning a new contract to run their
Household Waste Recycling Centres (HWRCs).
As the economic downturn began to impact 
the wider market, we accelerated our strategy 
of scaling back our services to the private sector -
specifically our more traditional operations. 
Now, more than 95% of our business is in
dependable long-term contracts to deliver
essential front-line services for our clients 
in the public and regulated sectors.  
At the year-end our forward order book remains
strong and, including framework contracts,
exceeds  1.25 billion, up 25% on 2008. 
Earlier in the year we announced a significant
new contract win for British Waterways and 
were named preferred bidder for North
Lincolnshire Council BSF , both of which serve 
to further enhance the visibility of our future
earnings. Since the year-end, we have reported
that our long-term structures framework contract
for Network Rail has been extended by two years
and now includes greater geographic coverage.
Given the strong pipeline of future bidding
opportunities in our core markets, we remain
confident that we can maintain our healthy order
book position in the coming year. 
Cost management continues to be a key 
focus for the business in order to deliver better
value for our clients. Our investment in Shared
Services is an example of our continuing focus
on the efficiency of our back office services, asset
utilisation and organisational structure. We are
also taking measures to ensure that our fixed 
cost base is appropriate for any future volatility 
in spend patterns that may occur should our 
client base become affected by the wider
economic environment. 
May Gurney has continued to develop as an
infrastructure services company, committed 
to helping its clients in the public and regulated
sectors deliver sustainable improvements 
to the front-line delivery of essential services 
across the UK. 
6
Underlying EBITA is Group operating profit before
amortisation and non-recurring items.
David Sterry OBE Chairman 9 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements
Our evolving business 
Our business has continually evolved to meet the
needs of our clients in the public and regulated
sectors. Specifically, we have moved away from
traditional project-based construction and capital
works towards long-term contracts based upon
delivering essential front-line maintenance and
enhancement services, which give better visibility
of future earnings and greater opportunities for
offering a wider range of services.
These developments have led us to develop 
our previous segmental strategy (Maintenance
Services and Engineering & Project Services)
and market positioning, with the aim of aligning
our services more closely with the needs of our
long-term clients and the nature of the work 
we deliver for them. As a result of this review, 
we have adopted an evolved and more
appropriate segmentation strategy, which is
represented in this report. We now operate 
and report under two business segments: 
Public Sector Services (which includes highway
services, environmental services and facility
services) and Regulated Sector Services 
(which includes utility services, rail services 
and waterways services). T o ensure comparability ,
our financial reports and presentations include
breakdowns of both segmental approaches.
Board appointments
In July 2008, Philip Fellowes-Prynne took over 
as Chief Executive and since then has drawn
upon his wide experience in the infrastructure
services and environmental services sectors 
to further strengthen the Company's ability to
deliver optimal outcomes for its long-term clients.
Philip has undertaken the role with relish and 
is making significant headway in shaping 
May Gurney for the future.
In January, we announced the appointment 
of Andrew Walker as a non-executive 
director. Andrew has wide public company 
and non-executive experience as well as direct
knowledge of regulated services, particularly
within the utilities sector and we look forward 
to benefiting from his input to May Gurney 
as the business continues to grow. 
Our people
Our people are vital to the delivery of front- line
services to our communities across the UK, so
it's crucial that they are motivated and engaged
with our vision for the business, which is why we
continue to invest in their training, development
and safety.
Amongst our people's successes this year, 
five key achievements stand out: our 
re-accreditation for Investors In People (IIP); 
the successful integration of our 1,100 new
colleagues from ECT ; our RoSPA Gold Award 
for safety, for the fifth year in succession and 
our AFR (accident frequency rate
7
), which
stands at an all-time low of 0.15; the roll-out of
our  Be the Best' Coaching programme to all of
our managers; and our 23 industry award wins.
The development of young people is an essential
part of our commitment to the future. Our  Starting
Out' programme continues to strengthen, with 
a 14% increase in the number of apprentices,
technicians and graduates attending our
development programme.
This year, we have enabled even more of our
people to share in the success of our business
through extending our ShareSave scheme to 
all employees who have been with the Company
for a period of six months. Once again, I am
delighted to report that the scheme was greatly
over-subscribed and it's our intention to offer 
the scheme again during 2009.
Personal development and growth is an important
part of our culture and I would like to take this
opportunity to thank all of our people for their
dedication and commitment during what has
been another very successful year for May Gurney .
Corporate sustainability
We deliver essential front-line services that 
make a very real difference to quality of life for
our communities. Therefore, we see it as our
responsibility to deliver social and environmental
sustainability in everything we do. It's also an
increasing priority for our public and regulated
sector clients - sustainability and environmental
issues are right at the top of their agendas.
May Gurney is leading the way in inspiring its
clients, its employees and its supply chain partners
in making a tangible difference. This year, we
have completed our first waste-neutral project,
which has received a National Green Apple
Environmental Award; we have embarked on 
a series of climate adaptation workshops with 
our clients; we have established measurable
sustainability targets, and a process for
managing our progress; our employee-led
Environmental Champions programme has 
been extended across the business; and, with
our help, the Somerset Waste Partnership has
achieved the highest household waste recycling
rates in the UK.
Strategy and outlook
Our growth strategy remains to develop 
long-term relationships through an innovative 
and outcome-driven approach to service 
delivery and to progressively widen our services
to our long-term clients in the public and
regulated sectors. Our strong balance sheet
means that we are ideally placed to take
advantage of earnings-enhancing acquisitions
aimed at adding value to our core service
delivery capabilities.
Our business model is built upon strategic
involvement with our long-standing client base.
We combine this with our strong corporate
culture, based on collaboration, to consistently
deliver exceptional service performance.
Although there are currently no signs of a
slowdown in our key areas of focus, we
recognise that there is going to be a reduction 
in public sector spending post 2010. However,
by concentrating on the delivery of essential
services, not being exposed to capital projects
and rigorously managing our cost base we are in
a strong position to continue our growth strategy.
David Sterry OBE Chairman
7
AFR is defined by the HSE (Health & Safety Executive) 
as the number of RIDDOR accidents in a 12-month period 
x 100,000, divided by the total hours worked in that same 
12-month period. 10 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Our people deliver essential services to our clients'
customers. Whether they're fixing a pothole, collecting
household waste, repairing a burst water main or 
handling a customer care call - they are the  front-line' 
of our clients' services. Being this close means that 
we understand the needs of local communities and
individuals, and appreciate the impact that our services
have on their daily lives.
The picture shows one of our Environmental Services crews at our Greenford Depot, 
who deliver essential front-line services for our long-term client, the London Borough 
of Ealing. Pictured from left to right: Daniel Smutok, Abdelwahab Jeradli and Ronald Belfon.  11 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
ON 
THE 
FRONT
LI NE