 Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial statements
09 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Non-financial KPIs 
1
  Since the acquisition of ECT Recycling, we have successfully reduced  
their overall AFR by more than 55%.
Client satisfaction
8.1
(2009: 8.0) 
Our vision is to deliver unrivalled customer service and, for levels  
of customer satisfaction, to continually improve. We measure  
our performance through ongoing client surveys across all of our 
long-term relationships. We have established tough measurement 
criteria to continually challenge our service delivery. Our target is  
a score of 8.5 or more.
Employee retention
9%
(2009: 17%) 
Our goal is to reduce employee turnover. The cost of employee turnover 
is more than just the cost of recruitment. Retaining employees ensures 
appropriate levels of competence, experience, service delivery, cultural 
alignment, teamwork and stability. It's calculated using the employee 
turnover figure, less redundancies, TUPE, seasonal workers, fixed term 
contracts, retirements and dismissals. Our target is 17% or less.
Employee satisfaction
88%
(2009: 87%) 
Our people are at the front-line of essential service delivery which  
means that their overall levels of satisfaction and engagement are  
a key factor in our ability to deliver a great service for our clients.  
We measure their satisfaction in our annual employee survey.  
Our target is 80% or more. 
Sustainability - CO2 reduction 
 17 %
(2009: KPI not measured) 
We are aiming for a 50% CO2 reduction by 2012 and to be  
carbon neutral by 2014. Our measure is based on reductions  
of direct CO2 emissions (fuel) on a 2008 baseline normalised  
by tCO2/ million revenue. Our annual target is a reduction  
of 20% or more.
Sustainability - reduction in waste costs 
46%
(2009: KPI not measured) 
We are aiming for a 20% reduction in waste expense by 2010.  
Waste expense is measured as the cost of material removal  
from work sites.
Safety
0.31
(2009: 0.15) 
Our goal is to reduce accidents and injuries at work. It's measured  
using the AFR (Accident Frequency Rate) defined by the HSE  
(Health & Safety Executive) as the number of RIDDOR accidents  
in a 12-month period x 100,000, divided by the total hours worked  
in that same 12-month period. From 1 June 2009 our new acquisition, 
ECT Recycling, was fully integrated into the Group AFR which has 
resulted in an increase from 0.15 to 0.31
1
. Our target is 0.15 or less. 10 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
In my statement last year, I referred 
to the challenging economic climate 
and the robustness of our business 
model. Although the economic 
climate remains challenging, our 
business model continues to support 
our progress. Our target markets 
provide us with highly visible 
earnings and many opportunities 
to add value. Every day, our 
essential services touch 18.5 
million people across the UK, 
enabling them to go about their 
daily lives.
We are immensely proud of our traditional 
values which, combined with our passion 
to always  do the right thing' for our clients 
and our people, continue to drive the 
business forward.
The trust and respect we have earned from  
our clients means that we are increasingly 
relied upon to deliver a wider and more 
complex portfolio of services. This has led 
to us becoming more involved with strategy 
development and service design and being 
valued for our skill at bringing the right 
parties together.
This consultative role is especially significant 
right now, as our public sector customers 
anticipate pressure on spending and need 
to do  more with less' through ever more 
innovative outsourcing solutions. We are 
perfectly placed to help them.
Performance
During 2009/10 we have again achieved  
record levels of both turnover and profits. 
Group revenue has grown to  483.1 million  
while EBITA has increased to  22.1 million, 
representing a margin of 4.6%. May Gurney 
remains a highly cash generative business,  
with cash generated from operations of  
 30.7 million, representing more than  
120% of EBITA.
This solid performance has encouraged  
our Board to recommend a final dividend 
of 3.7 pence per share, resulting in a total 
for the year of 5.5 pence per share, up 7% 
compared to 2009.
Our success has been achieved through  
a combination of assured delivery for our 
long-term clients, effective cost management 
and organic growth. At the year-end our 
forward order book stands at more than  
 1.7 billion, up 36% on 2009 which, together 
with our reliance on dependable long-term 
contracts to deliver essential front-line services, 
gives us excellent visibility of future earnings. 
In addition, our strong pipeline of future bidding 
opportunities in our core markets, totalling 
more than  4 billion, means that we remain 
confident that we can maintain our healthy 
order book position.
During the year we have secured long-term 
contract wins, renewals and expansions, 
(including extensions) of more than  1.1 billion 
across all of our service areas. This includes 
a new ground-breaking contract to deliver a 
wide range of front-line services in joint venture 
with Torbay Council, worth up to  130 million 
over an initial period of ten years. The delivery 
of bundled services through a single private 
partner in joint venture with a local authority 
is extremely rare in the UK and is an innovative 
solution to drive service improvements and 
value for residents - doing more with less.  
May Gurney's expertise at collaborative  
working will be crucial to the success of this  
new partnership, especially to design and 
deliver such a wide range of front-line services 
which are essential to the local community.
Other significant business wins include the 
highways maintenance contract for Lincolnshire 
County Council; four new environmental 
services contracts in England and Wales; 
contract extensions for highways maintenance 
for Essex County Council and in Rail Services 
for Network Rail; and Building Schools for the 
Future (BSF) contracts for North Lincolnshire 
Council and Lambeth Council. Since the period 
end, our Property Framework contract with 
Network Rail has been extended by two years, 
worth up to  24 million.
A key focus during the year has been the AMP5 
bidding for utilities. Although this process is still 
continuing, we have successfully re-bid our key 
long-term contract with South West Water and 
have secured significant new business from 
Anglian Water. Other AMP5 contracts include 
Wessex Water and, since the period end, Essex 
& Suffolk Water. Significantly, during AMP5 we 
have been successful at shifting the focus of 
our activities towards dependable repair and 
maintenance work, increasing 22% on AMP4.
Chairman's introduction
David Sterry OBE  
Chairman Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial statements
11 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Effective cost management continues to be 
a key focus for the business in order to deliver 
better value for our clients. Our Shared Services 
strategy is now fully deployed, leveraging our 
cost base and driving even greater operational 
efficiency and more effective service delivery 
for our internal and external clients. In addition, 
we have taken measures during the year to 
ensure that our fixed cost base is appropriate 
for any future volatility in spend patterns that 
may occur.
The Board
The Board continues to evolve and we 
announced at the AGM that Matt Stevens 
would be replacing Mike Dunn as Group 
Finance Director. Matt joined the Board in 
December 2009 and is already using his 
experience to make an impact.
In February, we announced that Ian Findlater, 
Group Business Development Director,  
was to retire from the business in April 2010. 
Since joining the Company in 2001, Ian has 
played a significant role in May Gurney's 
success, particularly in the development  
of new market opportunities and being an  
early and passionate advocate of sustainability 
issues - both of which are now essential 
elements in May Gurney's continuing growth 
and help to differentiate our service offering.
Since the period end, we announced the 
appointment of Ishbel Macpherson as a 
non-executive director with immediate effect. 
Ishbel was an investment banker for over  
20 years, specialising in UK mid-market 
corporate finance. She has extensive  
public company experience and holds 
non-executive directorships in a number of 
companies. Ishbel's extensive non-executive 
experience and her corporate finance 
background mean that she is ideally placed to 
make a valuable contribution to the Board and 
to chair the Audit Committee (from July 2010).
David Galloway, who was appointed a non-
executive director of May Gurney in 2002  
and currently chairs the Audit Committee,  
has decided to retire from the Board and will 
stand down at the Company's AGM in July.  
We are indebted to David for his incisive 
contribution to the Board in what has been  
a very successful period for the Company.
The Board would like to thank Ian and David 
for their valuable contribution to May Gurney's 
success and to wish them the best for 
the future.
All the directors listed in this report served 
throughout the year, with the exception of 
Matt Stevens, who was appointed as a director 
on 9 December 2009, and Ishbel Macpherson, 
who was appointed as a director on 20 April 
2010. Michael Dunn resigned as a director 
of the Company on 8 January 2010 and 
Ian Findlater resigned as a director of the 
Company on 7 May 2010.
There were 12 Board meetings during the year, 
excluding the AGM.
Our people
We are committed to ensuring that May Gurney 
is the best place to work. Our goal is to attract 
and retain the best talent by creating an 
environment where people can flourish and 
take great pride in doing the right thing for 
their colleagues and our clients.
Our 4,300 people deliver essential front-line 
services to our communities across the UK. 
They are the people that keep the country 
running so that everyone can go about their 
daily lives safely and easily. Therefore, it's 
crucial that they are motivated and engaged 
with our vision to deliver unrivalled customer 
service and great operational performance. 
This is why we continue to invest in their 
training, their development and their safety.
 30.7m
cash generated from operations 
May Gurney remains a highly cash generative 
business, with cash generated from operations 
of  30.7 million, representing more than 
120% of EBITA.