 MBL Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 
31 March 2011 
 
 
1
Chairman's Statement 
The Group has experienced an immensely challenging period both during the financial year ended 31 
March 2011 and subsequent to the announcement of the termination of the contract relating to the Group's 
major customer in April 2011.   
During the period sales revenues were static at  195.3m and operating profit before exceptional items 
reduced to  1.5m from  9.9m, representing a fall of  8.4m.  The Group has reported a loss before tax of 
 21.2m with exceptional items of  22.7m being charged in the year. 
Summary of results 
  2011 2010 
    m   m 
  
 
  
Revenue 
195.3 
194.9 
  
 
  
Reported operating (loss)/profit 
(21.2) 
9.9 
  
 
  
 
 
 
Operating profit before exceptional items 
1.5 
9.9 
 
 
 
Exceptional items: 
 
 
Goodwill impairment 
(17.0) 
- 
Property lease termination costs 
(1.2) 
- 
Tangible fixed asset impairment 
(2.1) 
- 
Investments impairment 
(1.9) 
- 
Restructuring and severance costs 
(1.2) 
- 
Release of relocation provision 
0.7 
- 
 
(22.7) 
- 
Reported operating (loss)/profit 
(21.2) 
9.9 
 
 
 
Net interest 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
  
 
  
Reported (loss)/profit before tax 
(21.2) 
9.9 
 
 
 
Profit before tax before exceptional items 
1.5 
9.9 
Exceptional items 
(22.7) 
- 
 
 
 
Reported (loss)/profit before tax 
(21.2) 
9.9 
 
 
 
Basic EPS (pence) 
(121.4)p 
40.3p 
 
 
 
Adjusted basic EPS (pence) 
5.5p 
40.3p 
Operational Performance 
The Distribution business experienced a very difficult trading year being adversely affected by changes 
within the proposition of its major customer, which comprised 79% of Group sales, 80% of the volume, 
and shortfalls in sales to other customers. The primary change was an increased concentration of sales of 
chart titles, which generated a much lower gross margin and led to a significant increase in the level of 
product returned and the associated overhead costs.  The Group's gross margin fell to 7.5% from 11.1% in 
the prior year.   
Regretfully, the Group experienced the premature termination of business relations with its major 
customer in April 2011.   The Group has continued to invest in the new direct routes to market of digital, 
eCommerce and retail during the year which has contributed to increased operating costs during the 
period.  Whilst management had been working towards the need to reduce the customer concentration and 
invest in alternative opportunities, the execution of this strategy has been hindered by the impact of the 
premature termination. 
 
  MBL Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 
31 March 2011 
 
 
 
2
Chairman's Report (continued) 
The home entertainment market continued to be affected by high price competition from online retailers 
and supermarkets and this has affected sales to a proportion of the Group's customers. The Distribution 
business has also experienced increased competition from some of our suppliers directly offering their 
own propositions to the retail customer. 
Termination of major contract 
As previously announced, the Group had been informed that its major customer intended to exercise the 
early break clause on its supply contracts with MBL in September 2011, but that MBL had been invited to 
tender for the provision of home entertainment logistics services. The customer had also proposed to 
explore the viability of a Joint Venture with MBL for home entertainment products, utilising the proposed 
new purpose built site for this standalone business entity. 
On 14 March 2011 the Board was informed that the customer had chosen to purchase products directly 
and would be utilising a third party for its ongoing home entertainment logistics services and the six 
months notice period was served on MBL. 
The announcement that MBL had lost the contract led to the immediate withdrawal of the Group's bank 
facility and the withdrawal of credit insurance covering MBL, which resulted in the loss of credit limits 
from major suppliers.  Due to this severe restriction in credit the remaining six month period became 
impossible for MBL to service and, as a consequence, on 4 April 2011 it was mutually agreed to terminate 
the contracts prematurely.  
The difficult circumstances that have had to be managed following the termination have been a serious 
setback to the future plans of the Group.  Management has focused on mitigating as far as possible the 
effects of the contracts loss as follows: 
  Attention toward stock and creditor management to ensure that the Group remains solvent: 
- An agreement was reached in April 2011 with the major credit insurers and suppliers to repay on a 
weekly basis outstanding account balances over a two month period.  As at August 2011, all major 
supply accounts within the Distribution business without queries have been repaid in full and 
supply continues in many cases on a  cash with supply' basis.  
- The Group's balance of stock has been significantly mitigated by the Group, utilising and 
negotiating supplier stock returns allowances and the use of clearance routes.  As at August 2011, 
the Group's total gross stock has been reduced to  5.4m.  
  An immediate downsizing of operations commenced with those employees whose roles were directly 
assigned to the transfer of services being either made redundant or transferred to the new provider 
during April and May 2011. Regretfully, MBL was obliged to take responsibility for some 
employees and associated costs that should have transferred with these contracts. A further 
restructuring exercise was undertaken in June.  The total headcount reduction has been 50% across 
the Group. 
  The Group announced in March that it intended to seek a disposal of all or parts of the business.  
This activity has led to advanced talks to dispose of part of the Group which is no longer considered 
key to the Group's operations. 
  The 15 year lease entered into in 2008 for a new purpose built distribution and office facility has 
been terminated.  The Board has agreed to pay the sum of two year's rent,  1.2 million, as an exit 
fee.   
A dialogue continues with the customer in relation to two outstanding issues which are as follows: 
  The debtor position with the customer has largely unwound in line with credit terms, however a 
balance remains that is subject to continued negotiation. 
  Discussion has been entered into with the customer regarding the stock balances attributable to the 
contracts however the issue of the remaining stock balance remains unresolved. 
The Board's intention remains to resolve the remaining issues in a manner that is in the best interests of 
the Group.   MBL Group plc 
Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 
31 March 2011 
 
 
 
3
Chairman's Report (continued) 
Exceptional Items 
During the year the Group has recognised several exceptional expenses.  
Goodwill of  17 million had been recognised in the accounts in relation to the acquisition of Redworth 
Limited in 2004. The principle trading entity that this goodwill relates to is Music Box Leisure, the 
Distribution business.  In light of the loss of its main customer, and the current challenges within its 
market, it was considered appropriate for the goodwill to be written down to nil. 
The Group has exited its commitment for a new purpose built site for the sum of  1.2 million. This sum 
will be paid in instalments during this and the following financial year and avoids the obligation to occupy 
a larger and more expensive property and the associated costs of relocation. 
The Group has undertaken a review of its fixed asset investments and, in particular, the assets that were 
acquired to service the significant volume increases it had experienced since 2008.  As a result, machinery, 
fixed assets and investment in IT have been impaired within the Distribution business of  1.7 million.  A 
further review has been undertaken within the Digital business, and as a result a further  0.4 million of 
development assets have been impaired. 
The Group's investment in U Explore has been evaluated in response to the decision to potentially divest 
the Digital business.  The investment in U Explore was entered into on the basis that synergies between 
the two businesses could be exploited which would lead to new opportunities for the Digital business.  It is 
acknowledged that prima facie the investment in U Explore appears to have taken place at a high 
valuation.  The rationale for this investment is that the Board were of the opinion that, notwithstanding the 
potential growth of U Explore in its own right, opportunities were to be gained in the education and 
Digital market which underpinned the investment decision. As a result of the changes in the Group's 
financial circumstances the Board considers it inappropriate to continue with the level of investment 
required to develop its Digital business.  As a consequence, the Board's expectations have been revised, 
however the underlying value of this investment is considered to be a minimum value of  0.4 million. 
A further investment impairment of  0.3 million has been recognised in relation to the purchase of the 
domain name www.bee.com.  Although the transactional website became operational in December 2010, 
the Board believes that this investment cost should be expensed rather than capitalised as a matter of 
accounting policy. 
The restructuring and severance costs incurred following the termination of the Group's main contract 
have been recognised and amount to  1.2 million.  
Cash generation 
The Group has maintained its ability to generate good operating cash flows throughout the financial year 
and been able to manage its working capital post year end whilst under pressure.  At the year end the 
Group has cash balances of  3.5 million and did not have any debt.  As at August 2011, the Group 
continues to have cash balances of  2.0 million to manage its operations within, despite the withdrawals of 
the limit within its bank facility and credit insurance. 
Current trading and outlook 
The Group has been reviewing its business plan following the substantial downsizing in operations and the 
increasing challenges of operating within the home entertainment market.  The remaining trade continues 
to perform to expectations but with increasing pressure on gross margins.   
The Board is focused on stabilising the business and are reviewing the investment requirements that are 
necessary for the less established business operations. It is anticipated that this may lead to further 
divestment of operations. 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Non-Executive Chairman  
 
26 August 2011 