 Chairman' s statement

It has been a difficult few years, made worse by 
terrorist actions and other problems, which have resulted 
in a lack of business confidence... we continue to take
every possible action to ensure profitability and we 
are encouraged by the level of new contracts and 
business gained.
 
2 Mayflower Annual Report 2002 The following comments were made by
Sir Eddie George, Governor of the Bank
of England, towards the end of 2002:
Central bankers are jolly lucky if
they feel at all confident looking
ahead 18 months...and sometimes
recently - given the volatility in
financial markets - it' s been difficult
to predict what was likely to
happen over the next 18 minutes...
It' s been a particularly gloomy
period - characterised by global
economic uncertainty, financial
market volatility and a pervasive
sense of pessimism in business 
and financial circles ... 
Hardly inspiring for the financial
community or the business world but,
nevertheless, words full of stark reality.
It has been a difficult few years, made
worse by terrorist actions and other
problems, which have resulted in a lack
of business confidence. The effect
has been a downturn that has seen
manufacturing output in the UK and
the US fall by around 7 per cent over
the last two years.
In such circumstances, it is incumbent
upon management teams to
restructure their businesses to meet 
the challenge of change - to take out
unnecessary cost and to MANAGE their
way through the difficult times, while
laying the foundations for the future.
This has been our approach at 
The Mayflower Corporation and even 
in these most challenging of times -
which look set to continue in 2003 - 
it is evident that we have made very
significant progress in traditional and
new spheres of activity. This has 
enabled Mayflower to win major new
business in 2002, a year in which we
also launched a successful Rights Issue
to raise  64.2 million.
Unfortunately, following the Rights Issue,
the stock market fell sharply in July and
September, eventually falling 24.9 per
cent over the full 12 month period. This
continued a downward trend that has
resulted in a 41.6 per cent market fall in
the three year period from January 2000.
The Board decided in October 2002 to
issue a Trading Statement advising that
profit on ordinary activities before tax in
the second half of the year would not
be greater than that achieved in the first
six months. This was due to the difficult
outlook which suddenly worsened as
the US market in heavy trucks drifted
downwards alarmingly, while the
European auto market also fell off sharply.
However, restructuring in MVS resulted
in a noticeable improvement in
performance in North America during
the fourth quarter of the year and the
level of significant, long-term business
won by MVS in recent months has 
been heartening.
We continue to take every possible
action to ensure profitability and 
we are encouraged by the level of 
new contracts and business gained.
Results
Profit before tax, before exceptional
items and amortisation of goodwill 
was  25.3 million (2001 as restated,
 27.6 million) on turnover of 
 633.8 million (2001  653.6 million).
Profit before tax, but after exceptional
items and goodwill, was a profit of 
 2.8 million (2001 as restated, loss
 31.8 million). Management's
continuing focus on cash ensured that
pre-exceptional operating cash flow
generated by the businesses, at 
 64.2 million, compared favourably to
operating profit, before goodwill and
exceptional items, of  42.9 million. Net
cash inflow from operating activities
after operating exceptional items
amounted to  54.4 million (2001 
 51.3 million). Net debt at the end 
of the year was  163.7 million (2001
 211.0 million). Earnings per share
before exceptional items and goodwill
was 4.2 pence (2001 as restated,
5.5 pence) and basic loss per share 
was 3.1 pence (2001 as restated, loss
12.0 pence).
Dividends
The Board is proposing a final dividend
of 0.75 pence per ordinary share, which
together with the interim dividend of
1.50 pence per share already paid,
makes a total for the year of 2.25 pence
(2001 3.00 pence). The dividend for the
year is covered 1.7 times by profit after
tax and minority interests but before
exceptional items and goodwill (2001 
as restated, 1.9 times) and is covered 
2.8 times by free cash flow. The final
dividend will be paid on 14 May 2003 
to shareholders on the register at 
25 April 2003. The dividend reflects the
current economic climate, our future
prospects and capital expenditure 
plans, as well as the need for a return 
to shareholders.
TransBus International
(TransBus)
TransBus has continued to make
strong profits, to build on its market
leadership in the UK and Hong Kong,
to invigorate its product offering with
the new Enviro range and to develop 
a long-range strategy that will secure
traditional markets and provide the
gateway to new export territories.
It has established itself as a strong core
business contributing significant profit 
to Mayflower. We expect that process
to continue in 2003 due to healthy
order book levels.
Mayflower Vehicle 
Systems (MVS)
The general lack of business confidence,
resulting from September the 11th and
other problems, presented MVS with 
a very challenging environment in 2002.
The North American heavy truck market,
Mayflower Annual Report 2002 3
Chairman's statement already at a 10-year low, fell depressingly
in the first half of the year, before
recovering through July to November.
By the year end, sales in the sector had
increased by 5 per cent over the
previous 12 month period, however,
this was achieved by sales from high
inventory levels rather than from
increased production. Together with
depressed MVS markets in Europe, this
blew us off course in the second half of
the year. However, there were clear signs
of improvement in the last quarter of
2002 as new business wins and cost-
cutting measures introduced earlier 
in the year started to impact. MVS is
now well positioned to take advantage
of any upturn in the automotive sector.
Our Turbine Installation Vessel (TIV) will
be generating revenues in the third
quarter of 2003 and continues to have
enormous potential. Our first project,
off the coast of Wales, will supply
electricity to 71,000 homes - equivalent
to one third of the homes in the nearby
counties of Denbighshire, Flintshire and
Conway. Comparing this tiny region
with the rest of the UK and mainland
Europe demonstrates the sheer scale 
of our business opportunity.
We have also made good progress with
our Mayflower e3 engine technology
and are involved in a number of
collaborative ventures with automotive
manufacturers. This project will take
three to five years to come to fruition
but again has outstanding potential.
Refinancing
Mayflower currently has a bank
syndicate facility of  188.0 million,
due for repayment on 31 December
2003,of which  58.0 million was
drawn down at the end of 2002.
Our bankers are working with us
with a view to refinancing a reduced
facility, in line with our needs, over
the coming months.
Corporate governance
Your Board has considered the 
recent corporate governance
recommendations contained in the
Higgs and Smith reports. The Directors
are committed to high standards of
corporate governance throughout 
the Group, however, we are 
concerned that a number of the new
recommendations are inappropriate
for smaller companies such as
Mayflower and that compliance could
impose an excessive burden and cost
on the Company without achieving
any substantial improvement in either
its working or its governance.
Employees
It was necessary to take costs out of
the business this year and regrettably,
as part of this process, a number of job
losses were incurred worldwide. To all
of our employees, I would like to
record the Board's appreciation of their
dedication and commitment during
these difficult and demanding times.
After the retirement of David Harland,
we were pleased to announce that
Chris Chambers joined the Board as 
a non executive Director in May 2002.
He is also chairman of the Audit
Committee and a member of the
Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. He is currently Chief
Executive Officer of Man Investment
Products Limited, a specialist fund
manager, and prior to joining them
this year, was Co-head of European
Equity Capital Markets at Credit Suisse
First Boston. We also extend a warm
welcome to Mike Chapman, who
joined TransBus International in the
summer of 2002 as Chief Executive.
He succeeds John Smith, who retired
during the year. I would like to thank
John for his outstanding contribution
to our business over many years.
Finally, John Major, who has served
as a non executive Director of the
Company since 2000, will not be
seeking reappointment when his
current term expires at the Annual
General Meeting due to the increasing
demands on his time both here and
overseas. John Major has made an
outstanding contribution to our
business over the past three years,
helping us to extend the Mayflower
name and its various brands into
important new markets and he leaves
the Company with our grateful thanks.
Outlook
We live in turbulent times and the
uncertainty surrounding the Middle
East situation continues to dominate
world politics, casting a shadow over
prospects in the international business
arena. In such difficult and unusual
circumstances, it is prudent to
anticipate flat markets in 2003.
Nonetheless, Mayflower is responding
well to demanding challenges and 
the uncertainties facing the world
economy. Our lower cost base,
new business wins, commitment to
innovation and continued technology
leadership will stand us in good stead.
Mayflower also made great strides 
in terms of strengthening customer
relationships, forming strategic alliances
and winning a series of impressive,
long-term business contracts.
We believe our endeavours have laid
the foundations for future success.
Rupert Hambro
Chairman
Chairman' s statement continued
4 Mayflower Annual Report 2002