 06
Private Label household 
and personal care products
Chief Executive ' s review
T otal sales at  505 million were a record for our core household
and personal care business and grew by 4.3%. The share of
sales outside the UK again represented more than half the
Group' s turnover at 55% versus 53% in the previous year . At
 31.1 million the Group' s operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and the joint venture was up 19.2%.
It is pleasing to report that the Group' s sales,
profit and cash generation have continued 
the improvements of last year particularly
benefiting from a strong Continental European
performance. The Group' s inherent strength is
its combination of scale of operations and the
unparalleled experience of the management
team. We have reinforced our Europe wide
market leadership by a combination of sales
volume growth, cost controls, increased
profitability and improved cash generation.
The Company' s objective is to improve
shareholder value by growing profits whilst 
at the same time reducing debt in the existing 
core businesses. The targets for sales growth
and major improvement in working capital
levels, are underpinned by specific country , 
site, product and customer targets.
Sales
T otal sales at  505 million were a record for our
core household and personal care business and
grew by 4.3%. The share of sales outside the
UK again represented more than half the
Group' s turnover at 55% versus 53% in the
previous year . Some help was given by the
stronger Euro but the underlying volume and
value growth in France and Spain were the
main sources of the increase in CE business.
Whilst the UK, as expected, maintained last
year' s sales, the strategy to expand sales in CE
resulted in growth of 8.6%. Reported sales for
Poland were adversely affected by the Zloty' s
weakness, although sales volume grew steadily .
Profit
At  31.1 million, the Group' s operating profit
before goodwill amortisation and the joint
venture was up 19.2%. The competitive
pressures between retailers and their
undoubted buying power again caused selling
price deflation. The Group' s strategy to focus 
on all variable and fixed costs to strengthen
margins in these circumstances, has again, led
to improved results. However , the marketing,
logistical and operational excellence of the
businesses is the best safeguard for future
results and customer service levels are the 
daily benchmarks of performance for all 
sites and functions.
Cash
Management' s rigourous approach to 
raising our performance in the management 
of cash ensured success and has given two clear
benefits; interest costs were reduced and the
level of borrowings are less than half those at
December 2000. We continue to benefit from
high levels of capital investment in the 1990' s.
Whilst capital expenditure was lower it 
reflected the on-going levels following the
completion two years ago of several major
projects. A key area of cash improvement after 
balancing debtors and creditors has been the
management of stock. Here the availability 
of detailed information for all finished goods
and raw material/packaging items from the 
SAP integrated systems, is helping to improve
controls thereby reducing stock levels and
improving customer service.
Stewardship
In the Finance Director' s review that follows 
the Group' s financial performance will be
described. It is, however , a feature of the
business that all sites, countries, product 
groups and increasingly customers are regularly
measured for profitability , return on sales, cash
flow where relevant and ROACE. A recent in-
depth independent internal audit, which is still
in progress, confirms the proper management 
of business risk throughout the Group.
T rade Relationships
In Private Label we are only as good as our
customers tell us and that is by the amount 
of business they award to us. In terms of
customer satisfaction it is very pleasing to
everybody involved in the UK business to have
achieved two outstanding  firsts' last year . For 
a record breaking third consecutive year the 
UK was voted by buyers as  Best in Class' for 
the household goods sector in The Grocer
magazine survey . This was followed in June by 
the Gold Award for Private Label excellence 
in competition between ten product 
sectors. The buyers voted McBride better 
than many well-known food, drink and 
non-food companies.
Whilst there are no equivalent awards in Europe
we do conduct surveys using independent
sources and the position of McBride as the
leading company in household and personal
care Private Label is well recognised, as
evidenced by the sales growth.
07
McBride plc
The market leaders
UK 
The market continues to be very competitive 
as the large retailers compete on all aspects 
of their customer offer . Last year saw Private
Label sales continue to grow their share of 
the household products sector as the retailers
increased their focus on building store traffic
and improving store margins.
Despite this growth, Private Label share 
in our sector still remains below that for  all
commodity' groups. This represents a significant
opportunity for our customers and McBride to
grow Private Label sales to our mutual benefit.
It is therefore encouraging that all Private Label
household products held a combined share of
23.7% with strong performance in McBride
core categories of laundry liquid sachets
+12.3%, laundry tablets +1.8%, auto
dishwashing tablets +3.3%, washing up liquids
and toilet care improving share by +0.9%. Our
business in the UK has leading shares in all these
categories with modest improvements in sales.
The personal care business had an excellent
year . Against a continuing backdrop of a
difficult market, initiatives were taken to
develop the Private Label and Minor Brand
offers. Our activities are focused on hair care,
bath and shower products and oral care. 
During the year Private Label grew it' s volume
share of the market whilst the value share 
was marginally lower resulting in slightly
reduced sales. 
It is against this market background that our
overall sales in the UK remained unchanged 
at  228.5 million. 
Having successfully established our position 
in the liquid laundry sachets sector , the business
has once again been at the forefront of
innovations with the launch of powder pods.
The initiative continues the development of
offering the consumer the convenience of
soluble sachets combined with the cleaning
power of laundry powders in an easy to 
use format. Initial sales of the powder pods 
are encouraging. 
The UK personal care business continued the
improvements in its operational performance
established last year as well as gaining new
retailer brand contracts. In addition to the
successful roll out of SAP , we are pleased 
with the Bradford site which delivered a 
strong performance.
APL 
Last year we reported that the aerosol joint
venture in the UK had been restructured and
although it was early days for the new phase of
the joint venture we were pleased to report that
the losses had been stemmed. It is therefore
particularly pleasing to report that our optimism
was justified and rewarded with a contribution
of  0.9 million (McBride share,  0.5 million) 
at the operating profit level. 
Sales of  30.1 million (McBride share  15.1
million) were in line with expectations and the
new management team have continued their
excellent work in the control of the cost base 
and are continually working to improve its sales
and operating performance. Customer service
levels are vastly improved despite some
persistent supplier performance difficulties.
Continental Europe
Our Continental European business (McBride
CE) sells in all member States of the European
Community in mainland Europe, with its head
office located in Belgium and production sites in
five member states. Last year we reported that
retailer consolidation led by the French multiples
and some German and Dutch retailers was
creating the right environment for Private Label
to grow.
In the most recent review of the European
Private Label market undertaken by 
AC Nielsen on behalf of the PLMA (Private 
Label Manufacturers Association) it was
reported that Private Label continues to grow
and for the first time, now accounts for more
than one in every four products sold in the 
UK, Germany , Belgium and Spain.
The report showed that the volume share of
Private Label products across all commodities in
2002 was 40.8% in the UK (-0.2%), Germany
33.2% (+2.2%), a record 27.3% in Spain
(+2.7%), France 24.7% (+0.4%), Italy 13.3%
(+0.3%), while The Netherlands and Belgium
fell slightly to 21.1% (-0.4%) and 36.5% 
(-0.2%) respectively . 
Mike Handley
Chief Executive
Minor Brands
The UK business continued its niche brand
development programme which saw Surcare, the
laundry products range, sales up 24% for the year .
This year has seen the relaunch of Clean'N'Fresh 
our value brand of household cleaners and the
launch of Captivate a personal care range.
These niche brands have a key role in the
development of sales to the convenience and
independent trade sectors where the lower 
absolute levels of volume inhibit Private Label
growth. By offering a range of value brands of 
good quality we believe there is a mutual
opportunity especially as some of the larger 
retail groups expand into this sector . 
The Grocer Gold Award for best Own Label 
supplier 2003