 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Behind the label
16
Chairman' s and 
Chief Executive' s interview
A year of transition 
and significant progress
Lord Sheppard, Chairman
Miles Roberts, Chief Executive
McBRIDE 14-34  20/9/06  1:39 pm  Page 16 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Behind the label
17
Lord Sheppard, Chairman,
and Miles Roberts, 
Chief Executive, reflect 
on a year of transition 
and on McBride's strategy.
How would you 
describe your first year 
as Chief Executive?
Miles Roberts: I am pleased with the progress we 
have made in many areas. We have strengthened our
management team and worked together on a clear
strategy for growth. I have spent a lot of time listening
to and talking with colleagues, customers, suppliers
and investors and there is a really good understanding
of what we can achieve and what we need to do. 
We have had some excellent examples during the
year of product development, customer service,
efficiency improvements and working together 
across functions and geographies. We have delivered
on all the key objectives we set ourselves - we have
closed a UK factory, restructured the Western
Continental Europe division, improved customer
service and product quality and launched some
excellent new products. However , we can do even
better and our financial performance in Western
Continental Eur ope was disappointing due to a mixtur e
of external and internal factors.
Lord Sheppard: The overall economic environment 
has been one of the toughest on record. The Board 
is certainly pleased with the progress made in the 
year . The foundations have been laid for improved
performance with a lower cost base, a much improved
organisation and great clarity on what we need to do.
What were the key learnings
during the year?
Miles Roberts: Th at our mark ets still h ave good gr owth
potential but that we needed to addr ess certain specific
shortcomings to r ealise this potential. Private Label
pr oducts have consistently gr own shar e in all markets 
f or many years; this is because they r epr esent excellent
value f or consumers and pr ovide attr active mar gins f or
our r etail tr ade customers. McBride' s success over the
years has been due to our absolute f ocus on working
closely with our customers to develop new Private Label
pr oducts and delivering excellent customer service. Our
analysis showed we had a significant opportunity to
gr ow sales with the har d discount sector r etailers and
also that we wer e not working closely enough with our
customers in most countries in Western Continental
Eur ope. In some cases our customer service had slipped
below acceptable levels. In the UK we identified the need
to incr e ase f urther our r at e of new pr oduct development,
particularly with r egar d to pr emium quality pr oducts. 
We also confirmed that although we ar e alr eady efficient
ther e is further scope to r educe costs and incr ease asset
utilisation. Finally , we identified a list of companies to
tar get as potential acquisitions to incr ease our market
cover age acr oss Eur ope.
Lord Sheppard: We have benefited from a very
thorough process to re-examine our objectives. It is
encouraging to see the progress so far . After a number
of years of good pr ogr ess on cost saving, asset utilisation
and customer service we do need to deliver more
organic growth. Across the business there is a really
good understanding of our str ategy and a commitment
to do whatever it takes to develop the quality and
reputation of Private Label products and deliver the
best results for our customers. This is augmented by
an open style of management that encourages
colleagues to greater sharing of knowledge and
genuine teamwork to develop the business.
McBRIDE 14-34  18/9/06  1:17 pm  Page 17 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Behind the label
18
What has been achieved 
to date?
Miles Roberts: The biggest changes are in Western
Continental Europe where we have recruited 
an experienced Managing Director and moved 
to a decentralised organisation structure which 
brings our people much closer to their customers. 
In the second half we completed this reorganisation
which also r esulted in 85 people leaving the business;
combined with factory savings this means that
headcount in Western Continental Europe has been
cut by over 10% in the year . We also invested in order
to restore customer service levels which ended the
year at a high level. In the UK we have developed
significantly better versions of many of our key pr oducts,
particularly in Personal Car e wher e we have launched
new premium ranges for a number of our key
customers, but also in Household where we have
launched much improved versions of washing up
liquid and fabric conditioner . I am really pleased with
the way our people have responded to the challenges
we have set and the increased momentum we have
behind our business at the moment. 
Lord Sheppard: I have been encouraged particularly 
by the progress in Western Continental Europe 
where we seem to have a renewed energy and 
sense of purpose. We have clearly benefited by
bringing in a small number of key senior people 
who have fitted very well into the Company and 
made an immediate contribution.
What other growth
opportunities do you
foresee?
Miles Roberts: In our more mature markets there 
is a limit to the level of organic growth we can
reasonably expect to achieve each year . Nonetheless
we need to return the Western Continental Europe
division to top line growth. 
During the past few months we have completed 
two small acquisitions in the UK, absorbing
production into our existing facilities, and benefits
have been delivered exactly in line with our
expectations. Beyond this we have a pipeline 
of prospects in several geographic markets for 
both small and larger scale acquisitions to strengthen
our market positions and we are confident that our
proven business model will enable us to create
significant value in this way .
The indications from particularly the second half
performance are for stronger growth in Household
products, both in the UK and Western Continental
Europe. By strengthening the organisation in Eastern
Continental Europe as well, I am sure we can maintain
our impressive momentum in this region.
What changes might we expect
in the Boar d?
Lord Sheppard: I am very confident in the future 
of the business. Europe' s consumers increasingly
appreciate the quality and value of Private Label
products in our sectors. Europe' s retailers need and
want to grow their Private Label products, not only 
to differentiate themselves from their competitors 
but also to improve their profitability . McBride alone
has the scale and technical expertise to deliver 
the Private Label products to meet this demand 
across Europe. Most importantly we have a strong
management team, focused and committed to deliver . 
I have been Chairman for over 13 years and I have
expressed my wish to retire once my successor has
been appointed. The process to identify a new
Chairman for the Group will be initiated in the near
future. I would like to thank all my colleagues at
McBride for their support and commitment in the
past year .
During the past few months we have
completed two small acquisitions in the 
UK, absorbing production into our existing
facilities, and benefits have been delivered
exactly in line with our expectations. 
Chairman' s and 
Chief Executive' s interview
continued
Could you comment on the
financial performance in 
the past year?
Miles Roberts: Financial performance in the 
UK was stable - growth of around 3% was driven 
by Personal Car e pr oducts which gr ew str ongly f ollowing
major product and range improvements with our 
key customers. We grew by almost 40% in Eastern
Continental Europe and by 9% in Personal Care
products generally but this was offset by price
deflation and declining sales of Household products in
France. External conditions were very challenging due
on the one hand to a law change in France which led
directly to price deflation, and on the other hand to 
a sharp increase in input costs on the back of the rise 
in the oil price. Raw material and energy related costs
increased and we were able to mitigate a good part 
of this by improved factory efficiency and cost saving
measures including product reformulations. Profits
were up in the UK and Eastern Continental Europe 
but these were unfortunately more than offset 
by the decline in Western Continental Europe. 
Over all, however , the r esults demonstr ate consider able
resilience in such a challenging environment.
Lord Sheppard: It was clearly a challenging
environment in France and it was important to take
the necessary actions as quickly as we did. The high
gr owth in Eastern Eur ope shows what can be achieved
organically in this region.
What do you expect for the
coming year?
Miles Roberts: Since the year end, trading has been 
as expected. Looking ahead, despite higher input
costs and investment in the future growth of the
business, the Group expects to make progress 
as we benefit from cost reduction initiatives and 
the recent acquisitions. Investments in support 
of our growth agenda will focus on marketing,
research and development and certain key
management positions. We will also increase 
capital expenditure with over half our spend 
on cost saving related projects.
McBRIDE 14-34  18/9/06  1:17 pm  Page 18