 We have achieved record
results once again.
At the interim results stage in April I reported
that we were confident we would deliver a 
further good year for shareholders. We have
turned in an excellent performance.
The following highlights stand out:
  Profit before taxation was  75.4m ( 60.5m),
an increase of 25%. Basic earnings per share 
was 49.2p (39.2p), an increase of 26%.
  The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.1p 
which, when combined with the interim 
dividend of 3.3p makes a total dividend for the 
year of 11.4p (9.7p), an increase of 17.5%.
  The Group's dividend cover is 4.3 times.
  Finished stock, work in progress and land 
amounted to 8,510 units (7,735), an increase of
10% equivalent to five years of sales at last 
year's sales rate.
  Cash balances at the year end amounted to 
 53.5m ( 66.5m) after early redemption of
 13m of Loan Stock, which was due to be 
repaid on 31 March 2004
  The Group's pre-tax return on capital on the 
basis of shareholders' funds at the year end 
was 32%.
These are excellent results.
Over the last five years we have achieved compound
increases in earnings per share of 33%, profit before
tax of 30% and dividends of 31%.
OVERVIEW
Our financial year began with uncertainty 
following the events of September 2001.
However, we finished the half year strongly and
the second six months of our financial year
enjoyed strong market conditions. We were able
to move selling prices forward and increase 
volumes. I am pleased at the progress of our
new Assisted Living business.
We had a good year for securing land. We
acquired approximately 2,300 units, nearly all of
which were conditional on securing satisfactory
planning. This provides us with total stock 
holdings to service five years of sales at last
year's sales rate and the ability to increase sales in
future periods.
We delivered a lower number of units to finished
stock than in the previous year, in part, reflecting
our concerns at the direction the economy might
take following the events of September 2001.
However, we have closed the period with a 
higher level of finished units and work in
progress. We have also had an excellent year in
terms of achieving planning consents.
PLANNING
I have referred in the past to the significant 
planning and social benefits that result from our
developments, not least in that they meet a 
specific and growing housing need and in that
effectively, 100% of our development takes place
on central urban brownfield land. Our form of
development remains highly sustainable and
complies fully with the fundamental aims and
objectives of Government planning policy.
McCarthy & Stone plc
Chairman's Statement
John McCarthy
Typical lounge 
Page 4 McCarthy & Stone plc The recently published findings of the 2001
Census have shown that 21% of the UK 
population (12.2 million) is now over the age of
60. This is a significant increase since the last
Census and it should be borne in mind that the
majority of older people now own their homes.
The Government, in recognition of the 
economic and social implications of an ageing
population, has made it clear that good quality
housing is a key to ensuring better health and
independence in later life. Through its Strategic
Framework,  Quality and Choice for Older
People's Housing', the Government seeks to
ensure that there is a sufficient range of housing
options available to older people so that they are
able to secure a home appropriate to their 
circumstances. In this regard, the Government
acknowledges that moving to good quality 
sheltered housing, in both the public and private
sectors, is a positive experience for many older
people, enabling independence in a home more
suitable to their needs whilst receiving support,
security and company. Hence, the challenge for
local authorities is to help meet the housing
needs of the elderly through housing and 
planning policies.
It is of great concern to me that only a handful
of local authorities across the country have 
properly examined the housing needs of older
people within their areas. The vast majority do
not have a housing strategy for older people.
With the absence of such an important housing
strategy, local authorities are unable to adopt
planning policies, that would ensure appropriate
housing choice for older people.
At present, the significant merits of our 
developments are not being given due weight or,
for example, being balanced more fairly against
the community's need for affordable housing .
Only when such due recognition has been
achieved, will we be able to operate on a level
playing field  in those local authorities where
demands for affordable housing , at present,
are only being met at the cost of other special 
housing needs.
I am nonetheless, pleased that we are represented
on the Government's Housing And Older People
Development Group, which is charged with the
implementation of the Government's Strategic
Framework. I am particularly encouraged by the
Government's intention to ensure that all local
authorities examine the housing needs of their
older population, prepare housing strategies, and
adopt appropriate housing and planning polices.
I certainly look forward to much greater 
recognition of the positive planning benefits that
our developments bring.
For far too many years I have found it necessary to
criticise the planning system for delaying and 
prejudicing our ability to develop our sites and to
deliver much-needed sheltered housing despite our
developments being in accord with the
Government's planning objectives as set out in its
Planning Policy Guidance and Circulars. I, like 
others in our industry, was pleased to hear that the
Government had at last recognised that the 
planning system needs attention. I was, however,
disappointed with the proposed reforms set out in
the Planning Green Paper published last December.
The planning system does not need radical
change. What is required is:
 
greater resources for local planning authorities;
 
a better understanding, interpretation and 
consistency in application of current planning 
policies by local authorities;
 
housing strategies for older people; and,
 
much greater discipline in the implementation 
of the system and in the behaviour of local 
planning authorities.
At present, far too many bad planning decisions
are based on local political interests rather than
sound planning judgement.
Government really must overcome the notion that 
development is evil and that the community
should be compensated for accepting 
development. This notion has encouraged the
excessive pursuit of  planning gain'. Any so called
gain  can ultimately only be extracted from the
land value. This can restrict the supply of land
coming onto the market as did Development
Land Tax in earlier years which, in turn, had to be
abandoned. We have already witnessed instances
of brown land  being withdrawn from the 
market by vendors when it becomes evident 
what the costs of development are.
Development, and in particular our specialised
form of housing, brings with it significant social,
economic and environmental benefits to society.
I sincerely hope that the Government 
acknowledges these benefits swiftly as, if it fails
to do so, the major shortage of housing 
provision, in particular provision that ensures
older people are able to secure and sustain their
independence in homes appropriate to their 
circumstances, will persist.
Jubilee Court, Dunfermline
McCarthy & Stone plc   Page 5 McCarthy & Stone plc
STAFF AND SUPPLIERS
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all
our staff. These are our best results ever, by a
large margin, and they could not have been
achieved without all their commitment,
enthusiasm and expertise. I am pleased that
these results have enabled all our staff, both at
Head Office and in the Regions, to share in the
success of the Group through the incentive
arrangements we have put in place. I am also
pleased to see that we have a very high level of
participation in our SAYE and SIP schemes.
We renewed our commitment to our Customer
Care programme and we have re-emphasised 
that message to our consultants, suppliers and 
subcontractors.
It is always difficult to ensure the highest levels
of service and quality from our suppliers but,
with some exceptions, we believe we have
achieved this in the year. Once again we were
delighted to recognise the contribution of our
suppliers, subcontractors and professional 
consultants with our annual awards.
We have had another outstanding year in terms
of the public recognition of our brand  and of
the quality of our homes. We maintain the 
highest quality rating with the NHBC, as we 
have done for many years.
Land and planning provide the essential raw
material for our developments. However, the
political and planning environment has become
ever more complex in the last 20 years making it
increasingly difficult to realise the development
potential of our sites. I am very pleased,
therefore, to welcome Gary Day as an Executive
Director with responsibility for land and 
planning from 1 October 2002. Gary has headed
up our Planning Bureau at Head Office since
1988 and has had overall responsibility for our
planning and its many achievements in 
recent years.
PROSPECTS
Looking forward, we continue to focus on 
our core retirement housing product.
The home-owing retirement community, which 
is now more affluent and more numerous, is the
market we serve.
The rate of house price increases over the last
year has been the subject of much public debate,
as has the high level of household and mortgage
debt but, with low interest rates, affordability
within the general housing market remains sound.
McCarthy & Stone has started the new financial
year in excellent health. We are enjoying much
higher levels of enquiries, visitors and net 
reservations compared to last year and have a
record forward sales position. This is extremely
encouraging. We have a land bank that will 
deliver us profitable growth and a balance sheet
that can finance it.
Given the present market conditions, the Group
can look forward with confidence to delivering
increased value for shareholders and sustainable
long term growth.
John McCarthy, MBE
Chairman
Chairman's 
Statement 
(continued)
Page 6 McCarthy & Stone plc
Typical Kitchen Kelburne Court, Paisley