 02 Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman and Chief  
Executive' s statement
James Lancaster
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Against a tough economic backdrop, 
we delivered another strong year - 
growing our revenue and profits, 
opening our 600th convenience 
store and continuing to play a key 
part in many local communities 
across the United Kingdom.
Delivering a strong financial performance
We delivered a strong financial performance in 2012 
- increasing both our sales and our profits. Turnover 
increased for the fourth successive year, by 5.0% 
to  844.7m. Our net like-for-like sales were up 2.6%. 
Operating profit increased by  2.1m to  15.8m. 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) increased by  2.7m to  
 36.1m. We had a good year for cash generation 
and, in turn, reduction in net debt.
These numbers were all the more rewarding, given 
the continued tough economic climate throughout 
2012 and the wettest summer on record.
Following the year end we carried out a successful 
debt refinancing, which was completed in March 2013. 
The refinancing was facilitated by our strong cash 
generation and debt reduction through the year.
Continuing to implement our strategy for growth
Our strong performance was driven by the continued 
implementation and success of our growth strategy. 
In line with our strategy we have added new products 
and services to grow revenues and footfall in our 
Retail space 2009
Convenience
(508 stores)
Newsagent
(744 stores)
49%
51%
Retail space 2012
Convenience
(655 stores)
Newsagent
(614 stores)
37%
63%
Note: 1,269 stores occupy 1.5 million square feet Note: 1,252 stores occupied 1.4 million square feet  Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03 
stores. We have also grown by increasing the number 
and proportion of more profitable convenience 
stores through conversion of existing newsagents 
and selective acquisitions. During the year we 
bought 30 new stores and converted 36.
In 2012 we opened our 600th convenience store, 
in Great Cornard near Sudbury, Suffolk. We took 
this opportunity to launch a new look and feel 
for our convenience stores - a brighter, fresher, 
more modern image to take our convenience 
proposition to a new level.
By the end of the year our total number of convenience 
stores was 655, which together with our 614 newsagents 
made an overall total of 1,269 stores in our group. For 
the first time, we now have more convenience stores 
than newsagents - a landmark in our growth strategy.
To fuel our growth in convenience stores, we 
introduced a new food and wine conversion format 
where we add a good range of grocery and alcohol 
products to existing newsagents in order to convert 
them efficiently and quickly into mini convenience 
stores. During the year we converted 36 newsagents 
using this format and we now have 50 of these stores 
in our convenience estate. This is proving to be both 
a great new way for us to increase our convenience 
store numbers and also to ensure that these former 
newsagents continue to serve their local communities.
Our strategy
Martin McColl provides local communities with  
a full range of amenities and neighbourhood 
services at a competitive price. We are focused 
on developing and expanding the convenience 
side of our business, which currently accounts  
for over half of the store portfolio.
The convenience side of our business is where  
we see significant opportunity for growth. Growth 
will be supported by the acquisition of further 
quality independent convenience stores as well 
as by converting our existing newsagent stores  
to convenience format. We will work to improve 
the customer offer across our convenience  
store portfolio, particularly in terms of fresh  
and chilled produce.
We will also expand the range and services in  
our newsagents and variety stores to cater for 
changing consumer needs, such as increasing 
the number of post offices we operate. Significant 
investment has already been made to improve 
store standards and the customer experience. 04 Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman and Chief  
Executive' s statement
Continued
In 2012 we also began a review of our supply chain 
in order to make sure we secure the best ranges of 
fresh food for our convenience stores. This review is 
set to conclude in 2013. This is a key example of how 
we are looking to strengthen our convenience offer 
from every angle - from making sure our stores are 
in the right local locations to ensuring they have an 
attractive look and feel, are staffed by well-trained 
friendly people and of course are stocked with a 
great range of competitively priced products. 
Playing a key part in local communities across the UK
We have a robust business that has continued to 
grow and to deliver similar levels of profitability and 
cash year on year throughout the downturn in the 
economy, underpinned by a large number of daily 
transactions. In good times and in bad, we provide 
local communities with many of their daily needs - 
from newspapers to bread and milk, from meat and 
vegetables to tobacco and wine. 
What's more, we provide many different services for 
the community, including lottery tickets, bill payment 
and internet collection points. We deliver newspapers 
to over 130,000 homes and businesses. We also 
operate more post offices than the Post Office and 
plan to increase this side of our offer. In short, we're 
the neighbourhood store for many local communities 
around the country. As a result, we have a lot of 
customers coming through our doors from early  
in the morning until late at night, with numerous 
transactions across our 1,269 stores. For us, local 
business is good business.
Meeting our responsibilities 
as a neighbourhood business
We play a key part in our local communities, not 
just by providing neighbourhood stores, but also 
by providing local employment to over 12,000 
people across the United Kingdom, and this doesn't 
include the 6,000 or more who deliver newspapers 
and magazines for us every day. The majority of our 
colleagues live in the communities in which they work. 
We invest in the training and career development of 
our people, for example through our Onwards and 
Upwards management development programme. 
We have launched a new initiative called Customer 
First focused on store standards and how to service 
our customers better. This is particularly important  
as we increase the number of convenience stores, 
which inevitably offer a more varied customer service 
and selling environment compared with a traditional 
newsagent. We want our colleagues to be able to 
really make the most of these environments and  
to deliver the best possible service to customers.
We launched an energy management initiative in 
2012 in line with our commitment to drive down energy 
use in-store. This clearly will deliver both environmental 
and commercial benefits. We are also looking at ways 
to improve recycling of packaging across our stores.
Customer numbers
Average number of customers  
per week 201 1 /12
4,941,182  Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05 
Valuing our people
Our customers regularly comment on how good 
our people are across our stores and I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues for 
their tremendous hard work and the difference that 
they make.
Following changes in 2011 we now have a stronger 
group board. Our operational board has been further 
strengthened through a combination of external 
recruitment and internal promotions. We have a 
great team at the top of our organisation to steer 
the business forward as it continues to grow.
Looking ahead
Looking ahead we aim to continue our growth at a 
more rapid pace, through the acquisition of more stores 
and the ongoing conversion of existing newsagents 
to more profitable convenience stores. Our aim is to 
have 800 convenience stores by 2015. 
The United Kingdom economy remains challenging 
for everybody. Having said this, the convenience 
sector continues to grow and we are well placed to 
meet our customers' local needs. Now that we have 
reached the point where more than half our estate is 
in convenience, the momentum is with us. So we are 
in a good position and I look forward to the group 
continuing to build on the successes of 2012.
James Lancaster
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Our 12,139 colleagues are at the 
heart of our business. They are the 
ones who make all the difference in 
providing great products and services 
throughout our neighbourhood stores.
Colleague numbers
Colleague numbers excluding home  
news delivery 201 1 /12
12,139 06 Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The UK's no.1 
independent 
neighbourhood 
retailer
With over 1,200 stores conveniently located throughout England, 
Scotland and Wales. Trading under our shop names of McColl's, 
Martin's and RS McColl, you can be assured that your store is proud 
to be serving your local neighbourhood.  Martin McColl Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07 
Freshly served for 
your convenience
Fresh fruit and vegetables, milk and 
chilled foods are important daily 
products that you'll find in our 
McColl's convenience stores.
Beers, wines  
& spirits
We've a wide range in-store to  
suit all tastes. From traditional 
favourites, to something more 
specialist, our range has been 
carefully selected to offer you  
great variety at prices you'll enjoy.
Saving you money 
on leading brands 
everyday
Offering you money-saving 
promotions throughout the year  
is at the heart of our trading 
values. Every day you'll find special 
promotions on leading branded 
goods. From confectionery to 
grocery, newspapers and 
magazines to alcohol, we have an 
extensive range for you to shop.