 Mears Group PLC  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 4
I am again pleased to announce record profits for the year
ended 31 December 2002.
Profits before tax and amortisation were up 43.1% at
 3,764,507 (2001:  2,631,153) on turnover up 15.0%
at  78,833,997 (2001:  68,579,597).
Earnings per share before amortisation increased by 35.7%
to 4.79p (2001: 3.53p assuming a full tax charge). Net profit
margins rose to 4.57% up from 3.66% in the previous year
and have increased in each of the last three years. The Board
recommends a final dividend of 0.75p per share making a
total dividend for the year of 1.0p per share, an increase of
25% from the previous year (2001: 0.8p per share). The final
dividend is payable on 1 July 2003 to shareholders on the
register on 6 June 2003. 
Trading review
The Group has enjoyed significant opportunities for growth
at improved rates where customers have bought a quality
 value for money' service. We continue to develop long-term
partnership strategies with our customers and have
strengthened further our relationships in all the core markets
in which we operate. Each of the divisions of the Group
traded ahead of expectations, and the non-cyclical nature
of the core business is underpinned by long-term contracts
which provide highly visible and robust revenues and
earnings. The order book currently stands at  300 million
which includes  165 million of future revenues at fixed
net margins.
The Group continues to enjoy buoyant trading conditions
in most areas. In the public sector from where the majority
of turnover derives, the central government initiatives to
improve the condition of the social housing stock continue
to bring significant opportunities. During the year the
Group was awarded contracts by Wigan and Leigh Housing,
Elmbridge Housing Trust, Warwickshire County Council and
Stonebridge Housing Action Trust demonstrating our ability
to win long-term partnership arrangements where the quality
of the service provided is paramount. It should be remembered
that the Group provides  essential support services' and is not
subject in the core business to any aspect of discretionary
spending from its customers.
Cash continued to be managed well with the generation of
 3.0 million of net cash inflow in the period. The Group has
no borrowings and had cash in the bank of  5.6 million at
the end of the year.
Operations
The Group operates principally in four sectors.
Public sector services
By far the largest part of the Group is the provision of a
range of maintenance services to the social housing and
central government sectors. The sector provides us with
significant long-term contracts with local authorities,
registered social landlords, housing associations and
government. The Group provides a mixture of both rapid
response and planned maintenance services on long-term
contracts, to deliver a total quality outsourced building
maintenance service. The contracts are let on a basis where
the Group does not compete with any other service provider
and the customer simply utilises a growing amount of
services throughout the contract period. As the contracts
near the end of their duration the Group has demonstrated
an excellent record of contract retention and renewal. The
Government has committed significant resources to improve
the country's social housing stock and the Group is in
Chairman's Statement
Order book stands at  300 million  5 Mears Group PLC  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
negotiations with a number of local authorities regarding
service provision.
Mechanical and electrical services
The business provides mechanical and electrical services in
the housing, education and healthcare sectors. The business
operates as Haydon and Company Limited and has been in
existence for 120 years building on excellent relationships
with its customers. The expansion of the business into school
and hospital works has broadened the sector involvement
away from the reliance upon housing. Whilst the London
based housing business has performed excellently, we are
confident that any downturn in the housing market would
be compensated by the ability of Haydon to expand into the
other sectors in which it operates. 
Facility management
The business provides a total building management service
to its customers where we manage a large range of services.
The Company which was a start up in September 2001
has performed in line with expectations in the year. The
Company was loss making but was successful in building
a solid customer base from where to develop a robust
profitable contribution to the Group. The Company
is expected to break-even in the current year.
Vehicle collection and delivery
United Fleet Distribution (UFD) provides a vehicle collection
and delivery service for commercial customers who typically
own a large vehicle fleet. The customers who comprise
leasing companies, utility companies and fleet managers
require that their end of lease vehicles be collected and
delivered to either auction houses or motor retailers. UFD
operates in excess of 500 trade plated drivers who collect
and deliver vehicles on a national basis. UFD holds some of
the largest contracts in the UK for these services and operates
from eight locations which provide storage and vehicle
inspection services. The business is the market leader for
trade plated driver services in the UK and has enjoyed
significant growth in 2002. 
Strategy and expansion
In the year the Group invested in FITE IT Limited (FITE) an
Information Technology (IT) maintenance business buying
49% of FITE, a central London based Company who provide
IT response maintenance to small businesses. Nick Lawrence
and the team are to be congratulated for their excellent start
to life as part of the Mears Group. I look forward to bringing
you news of the progress of FITE in the future.
In December the Group acquired M&T Group Limited (M&T)
and in turn welcomed back into the business Mike Turl, one
of the founders of Mears. Those who know the history of the
Group will be aware that Mike left the Group in 1998 to
pursue other interests. 
In April 1999 M&T acquired FWA (Southern) Limited and
later certain contracts from Mears following our purchase
of Haydon in September 1999. We have acquired Mike's
business on an earn-out basis, with the consideration linked
to future levels of profitability. In addition Mike is to help
build a national painting and decorating services business
where the Group has identified significant growth
opportunities. I look forward to bringing you news in the
future of the regional acquisition strategy we have planned. 
Throughout the Group we operate a reward based culture
with bonus and incentive arrangements in place at all levels.
Every employee is encouraged to contribute to a better and
Net cash inflow of  3 million  Mears Group PLC  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 6
Chairman's Statement (continued)
more cost effective way of working. In the year we increased
greatly our commitment to wider social responsibility,
sponsoring in excess of 30 local sports clubs, teams and or
individuals, living in those communities in which we operate
or intend operating in the future. It is our intention to extend
our community involvement and in conjunction with the
organisation Business in the Community we commenced a
paired reading scheme where employees of the Group visit a
local school and are paired with a schoolchild spending up to
an hour a week with a child to improve that child's reading
skills. This is the first of a number of initiatives to extend our
community based social involvement. In a joint venture with
a local based national charity we have committed to send
each year six of our junior managers on a sponsored walk of
the Great Wall of China to both raise much needed funding
whilst at the same time giving the managers a once in a
lifetime experience. This initiative is seen as a vital part of
the Mears management development program.
Through the success of our Group wide accreditation
for both Investors in People and the ISO 9002 Quality
Management system, there have been national training and
development initiatives for all employees. Again, the number
of training days recorded in the year exceeded previous years.
The Group has a proven, robust and sustainable business
model upon which to expand both the size of the Group and
the range of services provided. The demand for our services
has never been stronger and we continue to seek out those
customers who are looking to forge long-term relationships.
Our future earnings are highly visible whilst the excellent
generation of cash from our operations continues.
The record order book demonstrates a commitment to
building a long-term business in stable market sectors.
This commitment would not be possible without the positive
approach to business that our team ethos engenders and
all levels of staff are to be commended.
Again I should like to express publicly my most sincere
congratulations to all those involved in the progress of the
Group to date and to applaud those employees who have
invested in our third Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme,
and given their firm commitment to the future success of the
Group - well done.
The Board remains optimistic about the future and continues
to create an environment where there is good investor
interest in the Group. The strategy is simple, we have a
business where the attention to detail is paramount. We
have demonstrated each and every year that the Group has
a robust business model with a conservative and prudent
management team who are very capable of growing the
earnings year on year. The Group's biggest assets are its
employees and its customers. We are committed to creating
a long-term partnership ethos with them. Our Business in
the Community initiative and our recent long-term reward
schemes for staff demonstrate this commitment.
I commend the commitment of staff at all levels and I look
forward to being able to report another excellent year of
progress in twelve months time.
Bob Holt 
Chairman and Chief Executive
1 April 2003
The demand for our services has never
been stronger 