 04-05
Trading Overview
Mediwatch UK Limited
Sales in the period were affected by the factors outlined above,
however our focus on the export market remained and continues to
be a major priority for business development.
Despite increased pressure on gross margins, especially in the
European markets as a result of imports from the Far East, all costs
continue to be rigorously controlled and Mediwatch UK has reported
an improved underlying trading performance.
Development of the product range and adding new complementary
products is an on-going activity and, again, significant progress has
been made in the period, including:
  The Multiscan  was completed in December 2005. The innovative
Multiscan  provides clinicians with mobile, real time, ultrasound
imaging, accurate measurement and organ volume calculation of
the bladder, kidney and prostate. It has been designed to facilitate
further development which can be used in other areas of pathology,
vascular, emergency and veterinary medicine in particular.
  Considerable progress with the desk top derivative of the
innovative Multiscan . This higher specification version of the
Multiscan  will provide clinicians with a device suitable for detailed
assessment of bladder, kidney and prostate disorders in a hospital
or clinic environment. As with the complete family of Mediwatch
products, it will link wirelessly to other devices. It is anticipated that
the desk-top derivative of the Multiscan  will provide a platform for
several future products and is expected to be available early 2008.
  The new Portascan+ (Plus) - the second generation of the well
established and successful Portascan has been re-designed to give
it additional and greater potential in the marketplace. Marketing will
begin shortly.
Mediwatch Biomedical Limited
Progress continues to be made with Mediwatch Biomedical's
PSAwatch  quantitative point of care diagnostic test.
The increasing awareness of prostate disease is generating greater
demand for urology services and prostate specific antigen (PSA) test
requests, particularly in a primary care environment. PSAwatch 
coupled with the BioScan  reader takes testing for prostate disease
out of the laboratory environment and will reduce the time taken to
provide PSA results from days to minutes.
The quantitative point-of-care diagnostic test is reaching the final stage in
the application for CE approval which is expected to be received during
February 2007. Sales into the European market are therefore expected
to commence in the second calendar quarter of 2007. The US FDA
approval is being targeted for Summer 2007 and the Directors anticipate
that marketing in the USA will commence in the Autumn.
Research & Development
Over the last four years, the Group has invested  2 million on a
programme of research & development that has culminated in a number
of exciting and innovative products.
The major part of this programme has been completed and it is
expected that development in the immediate future will be limited to
the evolvement of these products, concentrating on developing
new applications and new areas of medical diagnostics. Chairman's statement (continued)
mediwatch Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Acquisition from Medtronic A/S
In September 2006, we announced the acquisition of certain
equipment, stock and licensing of intellectual property relating to
urology diagnostics from Medtronic A/S, which was completed on 
8 December 2006.
The value of the assets purchased was US$2.0 million ( 1.1 million),
which relates to stock, and will be satisfied by monthly payments
which commenced this month. These payments are based on the
amount of stock utilised but subject to minimum monthly payments of
US$100,000 ( 54,000).
Discussions with Medtronic relating to the Acquisition took
considerably longer than the Directors had originally anticipated.
However, this proved beneficial as during this period, Mediwatch was
able to enter into a Manufacturing & Supply Agreement with Medtronic
and commenced the manufacture of some of Medtronic's urology
diagnostic products in May 2006. We believe that this initial period has
provided our team with a much better working knowledge of the
products and the intellectual property acquired from Medtronic.
The acquired intellectual property relates to software and other rights
in urology diagnostic equipment which is complementary to the
existing Mediwatch range together with Medtronic's established
urology equipment customers and access to Medtronic's international
distribution network. Mediwatch also acquired tools and equipment
necessary to manufacture the urology products. The stock which was
acquired represents component parts for the manufacture of urology
diagnostics equipment and finished products.
The acquisition of the Medtronic urodynamic business brings a
number of complementary and well established capital equipment and
disposable products to our existing business.
International Distribution Agreement with T-DOC 
On 22 January, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a
distribution agreement with US based T-DOC. Under the agreement
which covers USA, Canada and the EU, Mediwatch will be distributing
the T-DOC range of disposable, pressure-sensing, air charged
catheters. These pressure sensing catheters are key to performing
diagnostic procedures with the new range of urodynamic equipment
recently from Medtronic Inc. and this relationship is a significant step
forward for our new urodynamics business.
Considerable, recurring sales of these disposable catheters in excess
of US$3.0 million per annum have already been established by
Medtronic over the last three years. Looking ahead, we believe that
the distribution of disposable catheters will provide Mediwatch with a
recurring income stream from within an established market, whilst also
strengthening our urodynamics business.
Strengthening our US presence
Since completing the Medtronic acquisition, we have established an
American-based sales, service and marketing operation to support our
urology diagnostic and consumable products business within this
Continental region including the recently announced International
distribution agreement with T-DOC. Our Florida based facility will be
fully operational in February 2007 and will employ 10 staff, some of
whom have joined from Medtronic's Urology Diagnostic Division.
Board Changes
Kevin Middis joined the Board of Mediwatch as Acting Finance
Director in March 2003, on a part-time basis, to assist with the
restructuring of the business. Following the recent developments it is
now an appropriate time to appoint a full time Finance Director and,
therefore, Kevin will not be offering himself for re-election at the AGM.
He will stand down at the conclusion of the AGM, but will remain 06-07
available to us to ensure a smooth handover. The Board would like to
thank Kevin for his tremendous contribution to Mediwatch over the last
few years and wish him well for the future. 
The Board expect to announce the appointment of a new Finance
Director shortly.
People
The Board would like to welcome the new employees who have joined
the Company during the last two months, both here in the UK and in
the USA and at the same time, thank all of the employees who have
worked unstintingly during the last 12 months or so to achieve the
current position and the opportunities to progress.
Outlook
Awareness of urological disorders and patient-specific disease
management is increasing with on-going advances in the quality and
specificity of diagnostic testing. Mediwatch is striving to develop and
market faster, simpler, and less invasive diagnostic products to save
lives and restore quality of life for people with urological conditions.
The Directors consider there is considerable optimism for 2007 and
beyond and, as we stated in our December trading update, the new
financial year (ending 31 October 2007) has started in-line with
management expectations and budgets.
The challenge now is to ensure that we have the resource and
capability to match the anticipated demand for the enlarged product
range and to this end, we have reviewed resources and made the
necessary changes to support our growth.
We have already commenced establishing independent relationships
with Medtronic's worldwide distribution network and as part of this
process we co-hosted an international dealer conference to introduce
the established Medtronic distributors to the new and extended range
of Mediwatch equipment. I am pleased to report that we have had
very positive feedback to date.
The Directors expect that there will continue to be an improving
trading performance in the current year following the acquisition of the
Medtronic Urodynamics business, the establishment of the US sales,
service and marketing operation coupled with the on-going
development programme and marketing of new products.
Overall, the Group is in an excellent position to exploit and benefit from
the opportunities it has already identified and we will keep
shareholders updated of our progress as appropriate.
Dr. John R. Forrest, CBE, FREng.
Chairman
31 January 2007 Directors and advisors
mediwatch Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors
P . G. Stimpson (Chief Executive)
Dr. J. R. Forrest (non - executive Chairman)
M. Emberton (non - executive)
O. M. A. Karim (non - executive)
K. J. Middis (non - executive)
Dr. G. W. Chong (non - executive)
Secretary
K. J. Middis FCMA
Registered office
Swift House
Cosford Lane
Swift Valley Industrial Estate
Rugby
Warwickshire
CV21 1QN
Registered number
3971079
Auditors
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP
Chartered Accountants
Centre City Tower
7 Hill Street
Birmingham
B5 4UU
Bankers
HSBC plc
15 High Street
Market Harborough
Leicestershire
LE16 7NN
Nominated Advisor and Broker
Canaccord Adams
Cardinal Place
7th Floor
80 Victoria Street
London
SW1E 5JL
Financial Advisor
Cattaneo LLP
One Victoria Square
Birmingham
B1 1BD