 3 Executive Chairman's Statement
Report and accounts 2008
Introduction
Since admission to AIM on 2 October 2007, we have
successfully started to deliver against our stated strategy. We
are reporting for the period from incorporation on 8 August
2007 until the year end, which reflects six months of trading
since the completion of the acquisition of Construction
Learning World Limited (CLW ) for  35m on 4 October 2007.
Our trading has been consistently ahead of expectations, and
we have twice upgraded our forecasts.
Revenue for the period was  7.83m, with EBITA* of  2.74m.
On a pro-forma basis** for the 12 months to 31 March 2008,
revenue was  14.19m, and EBITA* was  4.90m.
Basic earnings per share were 4.2p, and adjusted pro rata
earnings per share*** were 5.2p.
Fully diluted earnings per share were 4.1p, and diluted
adjusted pro rata earnings per share*** were 5.1p.
Profits have been converted efficiently into cash flow, with net
debt being reduced to  4.5m at 31 March 2008.
As set out in the Admission Document dated 1 October 2007,
your Board will not be recommending the payment of a
dividend for the period.
Strategy
At the time of the IPO, we set out a clear strategy that we
intended to:
  acquire profitable businesses with good reputations,
strong management teams, high learner achievement rates
and good sales and marketing capabilities;
  retain and incentivise the management teams of acquired
businesses;
  run acquired businesses as autonomous units, with an
absolute focus on operational excellence and strong
financial control; and
  obtain Group-wide benefits through the sharing of best
practice and funding body relationships.
We have made significant progress in executing the stated
strategy, having (i) acquired Construction Learning World in
October 2007, and (ii) set up Logistics Learning World in
January 2008.
The group continues to perform well,
and the Board looks to the future with confidence.
Adrian Carey Executive Chairman  4 Executive Chairman's Statement
continued
Report and accounts 2008
The Logistics Learning World team came in and worked around our
operation causing a minimum of disruption. The team has also been giving useful
advice on fuel efficiency and drivers' hours that can only be of benefit to our operation.
We now look forward to rolling the program out across the rest of our sites.
Transport Manager, Ennstone Johnston
The Board is making progress exploring and evaluating
potential value enhancing acquisitions, and we have a well
developed pipeline. We continue to focus on acquisitions 
in sectors which will have some or all of the following
characteristics:
  significant employer and learner demand for training and
assessment;
  regulatory or legislative drivers increasing demand for
training and qualification; and
  government identified  priority sectors' for training, as a
result of the very large number of unqualified workers.
Market
The market backdrop for vocational training in the UK remains
favourable. In the recent Comprehensive Spending Review,
the Government committed funding for adult skills and
apprenticeships of  4.3bn a year by 2010/11, providing over
seven million training places over the three year spending
period. Train to Gain funding will increase from  524m in 
2007/8 to over  1bn by 2010/11.
There have been a number of changes to the government
funding environment and some more fundamental changes 
are anticipated, such as the proposed replacement of the
Learning and Skills Council with other bodies including the
Skills Funding Agency and the National Apprenticeship
Service. Your Board continues to evaluate and, where
possible, engage in these developments and is confident 
of the potential opportunities they will offer to Melorio.
In the construction sector, I am pleased to report that the
industry carding schemes (CSCS and CPCS) continue to be
enforced with increasing rigour by both employers and the
Health and Safety Executive.
People
Core to our strategy is attracting, retaining and developing 
our people. Your Board believes that the Melorio team is first
rate, and appropriately incentivised to deliver good results for
shareholders. We have exciting momentum within the business
and I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone
within the Group for their hard work.
We have strengthened the Board during the period with the
appointment of Alex Sheffield as Group Finance Director and
Bob Fryer as Non-Executive Director. Prior to joining Melorio,
Alex was a Partner at international investment banking
boutique Livingstone Partners LLP where he co-led the firm's
industrials sector team. Bob has spent his career in adult
learning and is currently the National Director for Widening
Participation in Learning in the Department of Health
responsible for opening up access to learning and
employment in NHS professions. Prior to that, he was 
the founding Chief Executive of NHSU from February 2002 
to February 2005. Both Alex and Bob have brought a great
deal to your Board.
At the same time we have continued to invest heavily in the
team at CLW to support ongoing growth. Following the
acquisition of CLW in October 2007, we had 131 people
within the Group. At the period end the Group employed 
167 people.
Operating review
Construction Learning World (CLW )
We acquired CLW, the market leader in the construction sector,
for  35m on 4 October 2007. It is a first rate business and
differentiates itself through its national coverage, scale,
breadth of qualifications, employer and learner engagement
and its excellent relationships with funding bodies.
Quality of delivery is fundamental. I am pleased to be able to
report that quality levels have remained high, as evidenced 
by the results of ongoing external quality reviews throughout
our business.
We have strengthened the management team at CLW with
internal development and external recruitment. The Board is
confident that the team and structure we now have in place 
at CLW will enable the business to continue its strong growth
rates on a sustainable basis. Recruiting, retaining and
developing employees of the highest quality remains a 
priority for CLW. 5
Report and accounts 2008
Having worked with Construction Learning World for a number of years we have
found they deliver our qualifications to a very high standard. A major factor in their continued
growth has been their ability to identify employers' and learners' needs, and meet these in an
effective and efficient manner. They are an innovative, forward thinking provider.
Trevor Luker, Director , Edexcel
We continue to build new, and strengthen existing, employer
relationships. CLW has an enviable client list which includes
many of the major construction companies and remains on
track to fulfil its current funding contracts.
During the period, achievement rates (the proportion of
learners achieving their qualification) remained high, with the
latest figures for learners starting during the last funding year
to 31 July 2007 demonstrating achievement rates in excess 
of 80%, significantly ahead of both newly established
Government targets of 65%, and industry averages. CLW
continues to benefit from high levels of productivity and
economies of scale.
Our college partnership programme is continuing to grow 
and we manage our funding relationships and contracts
proactively, which helps us deliver consistently against funding
partner expectations. During the period, we have increased
our geographical penetration in England with additional
funding body relationships. Via a partnership arrangement
with Construction Skills, we have also started delivering to
learners in Wales, which helps us to service national
employers in the region.
Employer and learner demand remains strong notwithstanding
the widely reported slowdown in some parts of the
construction sector, in the residential house building sector in
particular. However, we have not witnessed any reduction in
demand for our services, due to the continuing high volumes
of unqualified workers. Our multi-skilled and geographically
mobile team gives us the flexibility to adapt to local or sector-
specific market conditions. The pipeline of identified
prospective learners has never been stronger.
During the period, we expanded the range of occupational
skills we deliver to include qualifications within Decorative
Occupations, Roofing Occupations, Road Building and Water
Jetting. In addition to the new occupational categories we
continue to add new qualification routes within existing
categories. We are also broadening our skills offering by
significantly expanding our delivery capability in the fast
growing area of Level 3 NVQs.
The Board believes that CLW's market share of Construction
NVQs has continued to grow from the estimated 12% share in
calendar year 2007.
Logistics Learning World (LLW )
In January 2008, your Board made the decision that it would
enter the logistics training market organically.
We have established LLW using CLW's management, best
practice operating model, systems and controls to provide
training and assessment services to the logistics sector.
LLW has had a strong start. It has been approved by Edexcel
to deliver logistics qualifications, secured its first major clients,
recruited its first assessor trainers and registered its first
learners ahead of schedule.
Since the period end, the Board is pleased to report
significant momentum within the business. We are now
delivering to major employers, with a good prospects list, and
our first successful qualifications were delivered in April 2008.
Your Board remains confident that LLW will make a major
contribution to our business over the coming year.
Outlook
Trading since the period end has been strong and in line with
our expectations. Visibility of revenue and profitability for the
current financial year is good with a strong pipeline of learners
from both existing and new employer relationships.
Your Board looks to the future with confidence, and I would like
to thank our shareholders for their continued support.
Adrian Carey
Executive Chairman
* EBITA comprises operating profit ( 2.05m) before amortisation of
intangible assets and share-based payment charge.
** Pro-forma results are presented on the basis of twelve months of
CLW trading to 31 March 2008, and pro-forma twelve months of plc 
costs ( 1.2m for twelve months).
*** Adjusted pro rata earnings per share comprise earnings before
amortisation of intangible assets and share-based payment charge,
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
since IPO.