 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to present this Annual Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2008, my first as
Chairman.
The period has of course been dominated by the extraordinary and unprecedented economic turmoil
worldwide, and which continues at the time of writing. In a situation where household brand names across
all sectors of the global economy are failing there is little we can do to influence events other than to focus
on our own concerns.
In that regard I am happy to report that your Company is in remarkably good shape. The vital question for
companies such as ours in current circumstances is the availability of funding, and in January this year we
were pleased to welcome Solomon Capital, an investment vehicle of Christian Candy, as a 29.9%
shareholder.
Solomon Capital has invested approximately  3.5 million in direct equity, and provided via a sister company
a loan facility of  8.0 million available for drawdown in the event that it is required. This provides us with
the funding we need to commit with confidence to the completion of a full bankable feasibility study on our
Runruno project, which is targeted to report early next year.
With Solomon Capital's investment, I welcome Tim Dean onto the Board of Directors. Tim has a First Class
Honours degree in Engineering from Oxford University, and in his early career worked in mining with
Gencor (as it was then) in South Africa. I am confident that Tim's technical knowledge, industry experience,
and financial acumen will make a material contribution to our decision making processes.
I also welcome Tim Wheeler to the Board in his capacity as Finance Director. Tim is an experienced Finance
Director, Chief Operating Officer and Business Manager with over 20 years' experience in investment
banking. Most recently he was Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer for Standard Bank Plc where
he was responsible for all Standard Bank's operations worldwide outside Africa, including responsibility for
offices in the Far East, Latin America and North America.
Tim's skill-set and experience are particularly relevant as we transform the Company from exploration
through to development, and I take considerable comfort from the unusually strong executive management
team we have in place for a company at our stage of evolution.
The reason I was honoured to accept the position of Chairman was because of Runruno. I have been involved
in the mining industry in various capacities for over 35 years, and in that time have assisted in bringing many
projects to fruition. It was and remains evident to me that Runruno has extraordinary potential.
We have already outlined a resource of 2 Moz of gold and 34 Mlb of molybdenum, of which nearly 40%
reports to the Measured and Indicated categories (under the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration
Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, 2004 (the JORC  Code)). Consequently we have great
confidence in the consistency of the resource, and this grows with every update.
During the year we completed two studies into the economic and technical parameters of a possible
operation. Both studies confirmed our belief in the potential of the project. The latter study, conducted to a
pre-feasibility standard, managed by the Company, and benefiting from the input of 48 external contractors,
envisages an operation producing 183,000 oz of gold and 1.7 Mlb of molybdenum annually at a cash
operating cost of $463 per oz of gold, which is in the middle of the current industry cost curve. By adding
the molybdenum credits, at whatever molybdenum price is assumed, that cash cost and net position on the
cost curve comes down significantly. We therefore know that the project is viable and robust.
Leaving aside its technical merits, the project also benefits from unusual buildability, by which I mean the
availability of essential infrastructure. Direct road access to site exists today, plentiful hydro power is
available from the national grid, process water is available from the local river systems, the topography lends
itself to a natural tailings solution, and communications, both physical and electronic, are excellent.
3
METALS EXPLORATION PLC In focusing our efforts on bringing the existing 2 Moz deposit into development, we should not lose sight of
the exciting potential of the wider volcanogenic complex at Runruno, all of which is within our permit area.
This potential has been independently confirmed by one of the world experts on such systems, Dr Eric Jensen
PhD, and we are determined to commit resources to demonstrating this potential as and when they become
available.
One aspect that particularly impressed me on joining the Company is the work that has been, and continues
to be, done in engaging with the local community. From the outset the Company has taken its corporate
social responsibility and environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. Evidence of this can be seen
daily on the ground, but it is also pleasing to see it recognised by the local community and regulatory
authorities.
In last year's report mention was made of the Special Award  presented to Ernesto Mendoza and his wife
Nanette at the Mining Journal Mines & Money  Conference in London in recognition of their exceptional
relief efforts in support of the community.
In the last year I am pleased to report that FCF Mining Corporation, the subsidiary which operates the
Runruno project, received the Kabalikat  award for its training and skills development programmes, the
Presidential Mineral Industry Environment  award for its environmental stewardship, and the Mines and
Geosciences Bureau Mining Forest Award  for its seedlings and replanting programme. These awards were
based on the policies of FCF Mining Corporation and the ongoing work of the Runruno Livelihood
Foundation, a non-profit organisation funded jointly by us and the Government of the Philippines.
We find the Philippines a most conducive jurisdiction in which to operate. The Government is committed to
supporting mining as a means of promoting economic development, and the regulatory framework clearly
and fairly outlines our rights and obligations. The permitting and approvals process is efficiently managed
by the authorities, and we reached a notable milestone recently with the endorsement of our application for
a Financial and Technical Assistance Agreement (FTAA), effectively the mining permit, by Secretary Lito
Atienza of the Department of the Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). The application now awaits
final sign-off by the President's office.
With all of the above noted, there is no doubt in my mind that Runruno, as a stand-alone 2 Moz gold/34 Mlb
moly project, and with its wider potential, is an extraordinarily attractive proposition.
The silver lining to the current economic climate is that as long as a company has sufficient funding, as we
do, then ironically it is easier to move projects forward than it was before the credit crunch because there is
greater availability of personnel and services, shorter response times from third party contractors, and lower
costs of key inputs. Consequently we are well positioned to forge ahead with development and bring
Runruno into production at just the time when most commentators predict that the economic storm clouds
will have cleared and global demand will have re-established.
This Chairman's Statement is perhaps longer than might usually be expected, but I believe it important to
have outlined in a degree of detail the basis for my confidence in this Company and our project at Runruno.
Shareholders understandably will focus on share price performance, and we cannot hide from the fact that
the last year has not been pretty. That said, we are not alone. On a monthly basis we monitor our share price
performance against a range of peers, and there is nothing that has happened to us that is not happening to
others.
I sympathise with loyal and long suffering shareholders whose entry price in many cases is materially above
current levels, and I applaud Solomon Capital for identifying the value proposition that prevailing levels
represent.
At the time of writing we are valued at approximately $10 per oz of gold, a valuation that gives no credit for
the molybdenum. Informed investors will know that a valuation of three or five times that level would not be
unreasonable in normal conditions for a project of our scale, maturity, and level of confidence in the
resource.
4
METALS EXPLORATION PLC
Chairman's Statement (continued) Recognising that we are in the grip of global economic storms, I would encourage shareholders to hold firm
if they are able. I have tried to explain the reasons for my own confidence in the Company, and at some stage
normal valuation metrics have to reassert, giving appropriate credit for what we already have, and have
achieved.
Irrespective of whether the market remains stubbornly depressed, I assure shareholders that our intent
remains to bring Runruno into production. At that point it is inconceivable that a company producing nearly
200,000 oz of gold per annum and associated molybdenum will not be appropriately valued.
This is certainly the view taken by Solomon Capital who, coming from a property development background,
have indicated that they intend to stand their corner all the way through to production.
No Chairman's Statement would be complete without giving due credit to the efforts of our dedicated
employees. A company is not just a legal entity, it is a living organism made up of those who entrust their
lives and futures to it. The current status of the project and progress made through the year is entirely down
to them and, as we move into the feasibility study, we welcome a number of highly qualified and experienced
new individuals into the Metals Exploration family. I have great confidence in our team and thank them all
for their contributions.
Finally, the Directors and employees of Metals Exploration extend their sympathies to the wife and family
of Ronnie Roasa, who died unexpectedly on 16th June 2008. Ronnie was one of the founding members of
the Company, and instrumental in helping the Company acquire the Runruno project. In recognition of his
contribution to the Company a service of thanksgiving was held, and the Company's central logistic facility
at Solano was renamed Ronnie's Yard .
I R Holzberger
Executive Chairman
19 March 2009
5
METALS EXPLORATION PLC
Chairman's Statement (continued)