 This year has been one of considerable change and progress for the Group following the acquisition of Freshfield
Lane Brickworks Limited (FLB ) in March 2010. Whilst the Group has always covered most of England and Wales,
we now have a very firm footing in the South East of England, where business has proved to be more resilient during
the recession.
I am pleased to announce that change and progress have contributed to the results for the year to 31 December 2010
in which the Group has produced an operating profit before restructuring charges of  504,000 against a comparative
loss of  374,000 in 2009.
The acquisition of FLB provided the opportunity, impetus and the scale to allow us to restructure the business and
position ourselves better to deal with the current market conditions, in what has become a constantly changing
construction industry. This has allowed the Group to:
  centralise the sales force enabling it to cross-sell all our products in new geographical areas;
  re-define the product range incorporating the enlarged family of products targeted at specific industry
sectors RMI, specified house building and merchants;
  centralise finance and administrative functions leading to efficiencies and cost savings;
  rationalise production at our Telford plant to focus on paver and specification wire cut bricks; and
  undertake a corporate rebranding.
We had operated previously, as a collection of businesses with centralised management and direction. The changes
implemented in 2010 have positioned the brick making operations of the Group as a single business, operating across
five manufacturing sites. These moves have focused the business on a strengthened sales offering, weighted more to
the very important South East markets which have been very well received by the Group's market place.
Financial Highlights
2010 2009
Turnover  23.3m  17.9m
Operating profit/(loss) before restructuring costs  0.5m ( 0.4m)
Operating loss, after restructuring costs  (6.9)m  (0.4)m
Total assets  71.5m  60.3m
Net assets  37.1m  30.4m
Net asset per share* 63.8p 75.2p
Gearing 35% 42%
* NA V following issue of 17.69 million shares in 2010
Following the acquisition of FLB, the Group took the opportunity to dispose of surplus land and property at FLB
for  2.6 million with an excess of  600,000 over the recent external valuation included in the acquisition agreement.
This  profit' is not included in the Group's Income Statement, but has been reflected in the fair value of the assets
acquired and has the effect of reducing the goodwill generated on acquisition being carried forward in the Balance
Sheet. The proceeds of the sale of surplus land effectively reduced the net cost of the acquisition of FLB.
The 2010 Income Statement comprises certain elements that make direct comparison with that of 2009 difficult,
including the addition of FLB for nine months of the year, reduced capacity at Blockleys for the whole of 2010 and
exceptional costs of the restructuring. However, the improved operating loss from continuing operations demonstrates
an improvement in the underlying contribution of our business in 2010 that is now enhanced as FLB brings additional
income while central costs are further reduced.
Operating cash flows are strong and show an improvement over 2009 and the disposal of the surplus land assets
acquired with FLB referred to above generated  2.6 million in cash. Inventories have been reduced by  430,000 to
 9.2 million, despite the increased size of the Group. Group net assets have increased through the issue of 17.69
million new Ordinary Shares as consideration for the acquisition of FLB and in an associated share placing at 30p
per share.
1
Michelmersh Brick Holdings Plc
IFRS Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement The Income Statement includes a number of exceptional costs associated with the restructuring of the Group,
comprising:
  the restructuring of Telford, our largest plant, due to the recessionary impacts of the last three years. This
led to the early mothballing and subsequent closure of Plants 6 and 7 at Telford. The one-off impact is
that plant and engineering stocks to the value of  6.6 million were written off. We are keeping all options
open for this site in the light of opportunities in the industry;
  redundancy and re-organisation costs amounted to  600,000. This included the cost of centralising all of
the Group's finance and administration functions at FLB's site but this will benefit future years by reducing
overhead costs; and
  other costs, including the cost of re-branding and the FLB acquisition costs which totalled  300,000.
The Group's term loan and overdraft facilities with Barclays Bank are due to expire in June 2011. We are currently
in discussions with Barclays which has confirmed that it expects to extend the facilities for at least 12 months. The
asset based funding from Venture continues to operate within terms and affords adequate headroom through the
trading cycle. Despite the acquisition of FLB in the year and the cost of restructuring, the Group has marginally
decreased its gearing over 2009. Headroom is comfortable but we continue to monitor and improve the balance of
our working capital. We work closely with both our principal banks and I would like to recognise their support.
Dividend
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year but it is our objective to return to dividend
payments as soon as reasonably practicable, when market and economic circumstances permit.
Land and Reserves Assets
We have continued to develop the potential of our residential land at Telford during 2010. We have completed the
S106 Agreement for the residential planning permission for 16 acres. We have a clear strategy to bring matters to a
conclusion in the near future to maximise shareholder value and to reduce debt. Overall there are at least 80 acres at
Telford which will eventually be capable of being developed.
All our sites have clay reserves for a considerable period of time and where appropriate we will add additional reserves
should the opportunity arise within the planning system.
The Board
The past year has seen a number of changes to the Board reflecting the changes to our business. Former FLB
directors, Frank Hanna and Alan Hardy were appointed to the Board in March 2010. Frank, who heads up the
commercial sales team, has contributed strongly to the product rationalisation, restructuring, centralising the
commercial operations and re-branding. Alan Hardy brings his experience to the benefit of the Group as a non-
executive Director.
Stephen Morgan joined the Group as Finance Director in November 2010 and has overseen the centralisation of
Finance and Administration. These changes to the Executive team give balance and depth to our operational
management.
People
We have a highly experienced workforce to which I extend my thanks. During the year, we have completed the process
of staff restructuring which has been a difficult period and I also thank those involved and especially those who have
moved or been directly affected by the reorganisation of the business.
I would like to thank a number of people who have served the Company for many years, who are retiring this year,
in particular Jim Spencer at Charnwood who has retired after some 29 years in the business although we are delighted
that he is still available to us as a consultant.
2
Michelmersh Brick Holdings Plc
IFRS Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement (continued) Outlook
We believe that economic conditions will for the foreseeable future, continue to be tough and activity in the
construction industry is likely to remain flat. Funding for developers is restrained and Government cuts in capital
expenditure have yet to be felt.
The brick manufacturing market is increasingly divided into premium products, which is our expertise, and volume
bricks, which can only be sold on price. It is the latter market that has been more adversely affected by the reduced
building programmes of the major house builders. In fact, these house builders have cut back severely on their starter
homes programmes and are concentrating more on higher value houses, which offers opportunities for us. We are
also seeing that our customers are increasingly conscious of their carbon footprint and seeking to use local and
regional suppliers.
Energy is becoming an even greater issue as recent political uncertainties in the oil producing regions have accelerated
the long term trend of energy cost increases. We are concerned about the lack of strategic decision making, by the
Government in particular, on long-term energy supplies and we are reviewing opportunities in respect of waste to
energy link ups with emerging suppliers. These issues will certainly impact future investment in the industry.
Against this background, the message is slowly getting across that traditional, quality bricks are a long lasting, energy
efficient, building material and their aesthetic qualities add value.
Our products are selling across a wider area and our market share is increasing, although industry pricing is holding
back profitability at this time. We do not believe that the current situation is sustainable and have commented on
many occasions that while the market is supplied by three multi-national manufacturers, there is a very strong
likelihood of further rationalisation, changes in ownership, or business combination.
As a result of all the changes within the Group in 2010 Michelmersh Brick is now a well invested business with a
high degree of complementary products, giving us a good defensive position from which we can prosper in the current
economic climate, benefit from any market upturn and be uniquely placed to participate in any restructuring of the
industry. There are some positive market indicators and our market place is proving resilient.
With our strengthened management team and the support of our banks and shareholders, together with the lack of
competition issues, we are of the firm view that we are ideally placed to take advantage of, or lead opportunities as
they arise.
Eric Gadsden
Chairman
3
Michelmersh Brick Holdings Plc
IFRS Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement (continued)