 MicroEmissive Displays is delighted to present its first set of results as a public company. These results mark a
turning point in the Company's history as we move from technology development to full volume ramp up of our
unique microdisplays for a variety of portable consumer electronics products.
During 2004 MED transformed from a promising University spin-out, to a public company admitted to the AIM
market of the London Stock Exchange. Though young, the company has developed a unique and competitive
technology which addresses growing mainstream consumer markets. The flotation in November 2004 was not an
exit of itself for any of our investors; many of them participated further in the placing.
MED is at an early stage and its most significant challenge will be to ramp production to meet a share of the
projected 29M unit market for microdisplays in 2006. Recent market updates reinforce this opportunity.
None of this can be realised without the skill and dedication of employees. It is my pleasure to acknowledge the
efforts of our staff, and to thank them for their continuing exceptional contributions.
IhavebeenprivilegedtoactaschairmanofMEDoverthepastfiveyears.Iintendtostepdownfromthisroleatthe
Annual General Meeting in June but remain as a non executive director where I believe that my semiconductor
experienceandknowledgeoftheconsumerimagingmarketwillcontinuetoaddvaluetothecompany.Christopher
Smith has been appointed as a non executive director of the company and it is proposed that his appointment to
therole of chairman of MED isconfirmed at thecompany's Annual GeneralMeeting. Christopher brings awealth of
experience in directing the boards of private and publicly quoted companies.
Results
Turnover for the year to 31 December 2004 was  12,000 (2003:  12,000) which in Q4 2004 included the first
revenue from sales of MED's QVGA resolution microdisplay products. During the year the company continued to
promote the design-in of its microdisplay into customers' new products through the sale of development kits.
Operating costs in the year increased by  1.2m (37%) to  4.4m (2003:  3.2m) due to the expansion in MED's
operating activities following the completion during H1 2004 of its pilot production line. Production staff for the pilot
line were recruited during H2 2004 and average staff numbers for the year increased to 31 (2003: 23). Costs
incurred in the development of the production process were a significant factor in the increase in the loss for the
year to  4.4m (2003:  3.3m).
Recoverable VAT contributed to the high debtor balance ( 0.5m) reported at year end. Due to the company's
anticipated level of VAT zero rated sales, MED is, and can be expected to remain, in a net repayment position for
VAT purposes.
MEDisalicenseeofCDTLtdwiththelicenceprovidingaccesstothefundamentalpatentsfororganiclightemitting
polymer technology. The expansion of this licence contributed to an increase in the value of our intangible assets
which after amortisation amounted to  2.1m (2003:  1.9m).
On 30 November 2004 MED was admitted to the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange. At the time of
admission, MED increased its share capital by way of a placing of ordinary shares raising approximately  13.5m
cash in net proceeds. New funding in the year also included approximately  3m in a venture capital funding round
completedinApril2004.Cashbalancesat31December2004were 12.7mandwillenablethecompanytofurther
expand its operations and begin to develop a significant share of the microdisplay market.
Markets
MED's initial market focus for its EVF and micro panel products is primarily in the high growth Digital Still Camera
sector.Independentmarketresearchers,InsightMediaandTechnoSystemsResearch,forecastthatthissectorwill
doubleinsizeoverfouryearstoreach100Munitshipmentsperannumby2007.SignificantlyforMED,itisreported
thatapproximately30%oftheseunitswillincludeanelectronicviewfinder.MED'smicrodisplayfeaturesetoflowest
power, excellent image quality and electronic integration offers our customers a competitive advantage in their
markets where these features are critical to added value and product differentiation. MED's ambition is to service
this sector as market leader by 2008.
MED'sproductshavealsoreceivedfavourablereviewsintwoemergingmarkets:personalviewers(oftendescribed
as wearable or headset displays) and night vision products. MED is confident that power consumption, image
quality and cost will remain the key drivers in microdisplay applications and that its products provide a platform to
secure market leadership.
MEDhavelongstandingrepresentativeandagencyagreementswithlocalcompaniesinTaiwan,KoreaandJapan
to service demand for its products. These three countries generate the majority of all Digital Still Camera designs
and development. MED intends to continue to expand its distribution channels during 2005.
MICROEMISSIVE DISPLAYS GROUP PLC
Chairman'sstatement
3 Product definition for the Personal Viewer market is more geographically diverse; however, much of the
development and manufacturing will be centred in Asia.
Customersandapplications
During 2004 the Company secured its first two design wins with companies who plan multiple products featuring
MED microdisplays. In meeting these multiple product requirements MED's display device represents a common
platform for the display component in all of these customer product variants. The display component requires only
minor changes to the display lens to meet the specific customer end product application.
ThefirstcustomerapplicationforMED'smicrodisplayisinanultra-compactUSB-enabledDigitalStillCamerawhich
can also operate as a video camera and MP3 music player. Developed by NHJ, a Tokyo-based company, the
product is a member of their   Cheez'' brand family, which is commonly available worldwide in retail stores and
through specialist catalogue distribution channels.
The second application is a British designed consumer night vision product used, for example by naturalists and
fieldsportsenthusiasts.This productto bemanufactured inAsia isthefirst inaseries ofsevenvariants plannedby
our customer. Initial response to this product has been better than expected as its low cost, high resolution night
time viewing characteristics is generating considerable interest for security applications.
Sincetheyearend,theCompanyhasreceivedanorderfromamilitarycustomerfordevicestobeusedintheearly
development of a new personal viewer.
Productdevelopments
In November 2004 MED initiated the development of a second microdisplay product which is planned for market
introductionin2006.ThiswillbetargetedatthepersonalviewermarketaswellasexpandingMED'sapplicationsin
digital still cameras.
IPR
At the end of 2004, applications were progressing internationally on 14 MED patent families, and during the year,
the first of these was granted in one jurisdiction (Europe). Additional applications, and possibly further grants, are
likely to be made during 2005. This is a strong showing for a technology company at this stage of growth, and
demonstrates the quality of our intellectual property asset base.
Followingtheplacing,ourlicencefromCDTLtdwasimprovedtoremovefromMEDtheobligationtolicensebackto
CDT new developments relevant to LEP devices. This gives MED greater independence and will safeguard and
enhance shareholder value.
Strategy
A key component of the Company's strategy, and a major reason for its flotation, is to secure a volume
manufacturing capability through partnership, acquisition or by commissioning new plant. The Company's
preference is to enter into partnership with a company already experienced in display manufacture. Putting this
resource in place, and ready to contribute revenue in 2006, is a crucial step for MED.
Followinganextensiveworldwidereviewofpotentialpartners theCompanyisinfinaldiscussionswithashortlistof
three organisations that have the skills and facilities to support MED's volume manufacturing. MED anticipate that
this selection will be finalised in Q2 2005.
A supply agreement is in place with Dow Chemical for the supply of polymer materials and in March 2005 we
announced UMC of Taiwan as our volume silicon wafer foundry.
Currenttradingandoutlook
MED commenced shipment of devices to support pre-production runs at two customers during the 1st quarter of
2005. Shipping the preproduction prototyping quantities enabled MED to finalise the customer and product
performanceobjectives,andourengineeringteamisnowworkingtowardsastablemanufacturingprocesstomeet
those needs. Commencement of volume shipments is anticipated in the second half of 2005. The Company enters
2005 with an encouraging order book.
The Company continues to work diligently to optimize production yields and considerable progress in this respect
has been made since production activities began in November 2004.
MICROEMISSIVE DISPLAYS GROUP PLC
Chairman'sstatement (continued)
4 Throughout 2005 the Company will ramp volume and yield, though we are unlikely to maximise our potential until
volume manufacturing capacity is brought on stream. The Company is on track to meet Directors' expectations.
PBDenyer Edinburgh
Chairman 15 April 2005
MICROEMISSIVE DISPLAYS GROUP PLC
Chairman'sstatement (continued)
5