 Mid-States PLC
Chairman and Managing Director's Report 3
We are pleased to report on the activities of Mid-States PLC for the financial
year ended 30 June 2007. During the year, the company became the parent of
a leading environmental technology group as a result of the acquisition of its
subsidiaries in October 2006.The financial information presents the
consolidated results of the Group, and includes those of its subsidiaries from
their dates of acquisition during the year.
The Group's new businesses
Inov8 Technologies Limited, acquired by the Group on 5 October 2006, is an established global leader in fuel
system testing equipment and technologies. Its equipment is used in 1,100 installations across 44 countries
around the globe by many of the world's major motor manufacturers and Tier One suppliers. It also
manufactures the Group's new air disinfection unit, the AD.
Inov8 Science Limited is the sales and marketing company for the AD, a new ground breaking technology that is
scientifically proven to be effective in the fight against hospital acquired infections such as MRSA, E. coli and
C.diff, and those associated with influenza and other common illnesses that impact our everyday lives. The
device, launched in June 2007, clears enclosed spaces of airborne bacteria and viruses.
The AD generates a continuous cascade of hydroxyl radicals (OH ) indoors, reproducing the same natural
disinfection effect as occurs in the outdoors and in our bodies. Hydroxyl radicals are essential to life and in the
body they are produced by cells to kill invading pathogens as an integral part of the body's own defence
systems. The device is suitable for use in a variety of environments including hospitals, care homes, offices,
hotels and domestic homes. Development work on the AD was completed during the year and production of
the device has now commenced.
Moving Sun Limited was also acquired by the Group and owns substantially all intellectual property rights
acquired by the Group.
Operations - Inov8 Science (The AD)
Mid-States has made significant achievements since it acquired the Inov8 companies in October 2006. We
finalised development of the AD, conducted further tests on the final product at Porton Down and Leeds
University, and re-validated the effectiveness of the product to levels above those achieved in our 
pre-acquisition investigations. We launched the AD in June, have now begun production and, following the
launch of our marketing campaign, have already secured an order from the Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust
as part of their efforts to combat hospital acquired infections. 
We are excited, not only by the opportunity this revolutionary product affords, but more importantly by the
initial acceptance it has received. Whilst our focus is on preventing the airborne transmission of infection,
potential purchasers of the AD have identified other uses for it. As an example, in response to a request from
several care home operators, it has been proven that the AD is highly effective in eliminating odours, which is 
an important concern to this market segment. Our discussions with a number of possible distributors give
encouragement that the AD will be an important part of infection control, initially in the UK, and thereafter in
major markets around the globe.
Our marketing campaign for the AD is given particular credibility as it is endorsed by our prestigious Scientific
Advisory Board, chaired by David Macdonald, the driving force behind the AD. Professors Hugh Pennington,
Clive Beggs and Derek Elwood, the latter the originator of the OH  air disinfection concept from his days at
Porton Down, provide us with invaluable input. Events such as our recent sponsorship of the global bird flu
conference in the USA (where David Macdonald delivered a keynote speech) and attendance at the September
2007 Health Protection Agency conference at Warwick University continue to form an important part of our
marketing. The detailed and insightful understanding of C.diff that Inov8 Science has developed is allowing us to
meaningfully participate in research studies into this now increasingly major concern for health agencies.
David Plucinsky
Chairman
Michael Heath
Managing Director Mid-States PLC
4 Chairman and Managing Director's Report
Apart from the AD, our R&D efforts continue to focus on ways of improving the infection control environment
in hospitals, care homes and other facilities. Work is progressing well on the development of additional
applications for the air disinfection technology that capitalises on our detailed understanding of how OH 
works. In all cases, the OH  concept underpins our technology. Whilst additional products are an important
part of our future, we continue to devote our full time and attention to making the AD a global success story.
The importance of the role of the hydroxyl radical in human and animal health, which has recently been further
validated by independent research published by organisations as diverse as the Wellcome Foundation and
Boston University, underpins our future product pipeline.
Operations - Inov8 T echnologies
The last twelve months have been challenging for the automotive industry and, in particular, for the Western
automotive manufacturers who have traditionally been our largest customers. They have seen falling market
share in addition to a tightening of emission regulation in the EU and US which has meant that investment in fuel
system testing technology has been delayed until they better understand ways to comply with these new
standards.
In response to these challenges, Inov8 Technologies has taken steps to reduce their impact and capitalise on the
changes in the market. In terms of ensuring a quality flow of revenues, we established a presence in new
markets where growth is being seen, in particular the Far East. The fruits of this effort are evidenced by the
installation of a high pressure common rail test stand incorporating our Akribis technology into a new
customer's development facility in Japan. Further, we have just completed the installation in China of an end of
production line test facility capable of handling 10 million fuel injectors per year. Inov8 Technologies has
established a relationship with the Beijing Institute to establish a state of the art research facility and reference
site. In addition, recognising the deferral of revenues in the short term, a cost reduction programme was
implemented towards the end of the financial year, which brought costs to a level that will permit us to achieve
profitability at lower revenues. 
This change in geographic focus and the cost reduction programme should stand us in good stead during the
coming year and complement our activity in our more traditional markets.
Results and dividends
As noted previously, the results of the Group incorporate those of its operating subsidiaries only for the period
since acquisition on 5 October 2006.
Revenue for the year was  4.1 million (18 months ended 30 June 2006:  nil). The loss for the year before
taxation was  3.0 million (18 months ended 30 June 2006:  0.1 million profit ). At 30 June 2007 the cash at
bank was  2.4 million (2006:  7.7 million) and shareholder's funds were  8.1 million (2006:  7.7 million). The
directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year (18 months ended 30 June 2006:  nil).
Our Finance Director's Review provides further details of the results for the year.
David Macdonald
Chief Scientific Officer and
Chairman of the Scientific
Advisory Board
The Inov8 AD 5
Mid-States PLC
Board changes
As previously reported, Mike Heath was appointed Managing Director of the Group on 5 October 2006. Mike
was, and continues to be an Executive Director of Inov8 Technologies Limited. Prior to joining Inov8, Mike had
25 years of experience of working in corporate banking and corporate recovery and has considerable
experience in working in China.
Andrew Tonks was appointed to the Board as Finance Director on 22 June 2007 having joined the Group as
Chief Financial Officer in March. Andrew has extensive experience having held senior finance positions within a
number of publicly listed groups including NSB Retail Systems, Alvis, ML Holdings and BTR.
Roger McCabe resigned from the Board on completion of the Group's acquisition of Inov8. Roger, the former
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, latterly served as a Non-Executive Director. We would like to thank
him for his services to the Company over many years and wish him every success for the future.
Outlook 
Since the acquisition of Inov8 Technologies was completed in October 2006, the newly combined Group has
made solid progress.
We will continue to market the AD in the coming months and we are in advanced negotiations with a 
number of potential UK distribution partners and expect to announce more details when these negotiations
are complete.
We believe that there is significant market potential for the AD in reducing high profile health concerns 
about viruses and bacteria such as MRSA, E.coli and C.diff, as well as those that impact our daily lives such 
as influenza.
We are seeing signs of increasing activity in the automotive industry and the Group is well placed to take
advantage of the growth generated by the tightening of emissions regulations in the EU and US and from the
expansion of the Chinese and Japanese markets. Development work on the next generation of our Akribis
technology is close to completion and will be brought to market during the coming year.
We look forward to reporting further over the coming year on sales of the AD and the growth in demand for
our market leading fuel system testing technologies.
David J. Plucinsky Michael E. Heath
Chairman Managing Director