  
1 
Milestone Group PLC 
 
Highlights and Chairman's Statement 
 
 
Highlights: 
 
  Group loss for the year on continuing activities reduced to  1.0m (2006:  1.3m) 
  Post balance sheet acquisition of The Flex and agreement of  0.5m loan facility 
  Appointment of Deborah White as Chief Executive and Ian Lodwick as Finance Director 
 
Chairman's Statement: 
 
Review of the year 
 
In line with the Board's strategy, the Group slimmed down its operations in 2006/07 in order to minimise 
expenditure whilst the strategic review was ongoing. The Group's loss for the year on continuing activities was 
reduced to  1.0m (2006:  1.3m) on a turnover of  0.05m (2006:  0.1m). 
 
Having previously disposed of the Group's traditional media assets in publishing and radio, the operating loss for 
the ongoing television division was marginally reduced to  0.1m (2006:  0.2m) on a  turnover of  0.05m (2006: 
( 0.1m underlying operating loss). 
 
Strategic Review 
 
The Board undertook a wide ranging investigation of acquisition opportunities during the year, a process which 
took longer than originally anticipated. Subsequent to the year-end, in January 2008, this review culminated in 
the acquisition of an 80 per cent interest in The Flex (International) Limited (The Flex ). 
 
Milestone Group PLC (Milestone  or the Group ) intends to use The Flex to develop a digital media portal 
capable of providing support to a portfolio of assets, subject to raising adequate additional finance. Whilst a 
further transaction is not a priority, the Board intends to continue to explore potential new business opportunities 
where these are regarded as complementary to the Group. This process will be overseen by the Group's new 
executive directors, Deborah White and Ian Lodwick. 
 
Post Balance Sheet Events 
 
1. Local Television on Freeview 
 
For the past three years, Milestone has been lobbying for its existing analogue local television licences (currently 
operating in Oxford and Southampton) to be converted to digital licences. In December 2007, Ofcom announced 
that it would allow existing local television licences to be converted from analogue to digital transmissions upon 
request. 
 
Milestone holds more terrestrial local television licences than any other company in the UK. Ofcom's decision 
now allows Milestone to launch local television channels on the Freeview (digital terrestrial) platform in all the 
areas in which it has been granted these licences: Oxford, Southampton, Reading and Portsmouth.  
 
The Board is exploring the opportunity to scale-up its television operations and re-launch services on Freeview. 
Milestone is confident there is considerable demand from viewers and advertisers for local television. However, 
given that Milestone's local television licences are due to expire in 2011 and 2012, it only leaves the Group three 
years in which to gain a commercial return on any new investment. 
 
 
   
2 
Milestone Group PLC 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
 
 
Significant questions remain about the opportunity for local television to develop in the UK following Ofcom's 
decision to withdraw the existing local television licensing regime when current licences expire. Milestone is 
playing an active role in United for Local Television , a new umbrella group which has been formed to lobby for 
adequate provision to be made to expand local television on Freeview. As of 31 March 2008, over 130 MPs had 
signed an Early Day Motion in Parliament calling on the Government to introduce a local Freeview channel in 
every part of the UK. It is understood that the Government intends to review its policy towards local television 
further in the coming months and Milestone intends to continue to play a leading role in these discussions. 
 
In the second half of this financial year, the Board intends to review the opportunity to launch local television 
channels on Freeview in the areas where it holds licences. The Southampton service is currently temporarily off-
air whilst contractual arrangements with the transmission site owner are formalised. The Board does not 
anticipate this impacting on any future re-launch on Freeview. 
 
2. Acquisition of The Flex 
 
On 15 January 2008, Milestone acquired an 80 per cent interest in The Flex for a nominal consideration.  
 
The Flex concept has been in development for over a year. Following discussions with Milestone, the company's 
founders (who are also shareholders in Milestone) felt the business would benefit from the oversight of a Board 
with experience in managing and nurturing young media enterprises.  
 
The aim of The Flex is to aid individuals to maximise the commercial exploitation of their own skills, talents and 
interests in a converged communications environment. The Flex plans to enable young talent to monetise their 
creative abilities by providing them with a platform upon which they can sell their own copyright. 
 
The intention is that The Flex will provide a platform for amateur and semi-professional artists to promote and sell 
creative content such as music, merchandise, art and film. Aspiring artists and talented individuals will be able to 
place their content and merchandise on The Flex website where it will be made available for direct sale to users. 
 
The Flex remains an early-stage, pre-launch, business and the Board intends to fully review its cost-base and 
business model. The Board does not intend to make a significant investment in The Flex until completing this 
review. One option under review is not necessarily to launch the full Flex platform as a standalone proposition but 
to seek to  bolt on' elements of its business model and technology to new ventures under consideration. The 
Board is also exploring the obvious synergies between The Flex and its existing local television operations. 
 
Board Changes 
 
There have been a number of changes to the Board's structure during the financial year and subsequent to the 
year-end. 
 
The Board's two executive directors, Andy Craig (Chief Executive) and Brian Chester (Finance Director), agreed 
to allow their full-time service agreements to be terminated in May 2007. Both continued to serve on the Board 
until March 2008 (Andy as a Non-Executive and Brian as part-time Finance Director).  
 
The services of both Andy and Brian were retained as Board Directors to help see through the Group's review of 
strategy to its current stages. A large number of possible ventures were explored and I am grateful to both Andy 
and Brian for their efforts in seeking to identify appropriate new opportunities for the Group, culminating in the 
acquisition of The Flex.  
 
Following the end of the financial year, in November 2007, Mark Levine resigned as a Non-Executive Director in 
order to focus on his international business commitments. In January 2008, the Board welcomed Jamie Bloom 
and Deborah White as Non-Executive Directors following the Group's acquisition of The Flex. Unfortunately, 
Jamie Bloom has been suffering from poor health in recent weeks and the Board accepted his resignation on 31 
March 2008. We wish him well and a speedy recovery. 
   
3 
Milestone Group PLC 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
 
 
I am delighted to report that Deborah White has agreed to step up to the role of Chief Executive from 31 March 
2008. Having built her own financial services company from scratch, Deborah has an exceptional track record in 
establishing and leading businesses. It has been a privilege to work with Deborah since she joined the Board in 
January, an experience which enables me to be confident she has the discipline, tenacity and inspiration to drive 
the Group forward. Deborah will initially work in a part-time capacity, becoming full time as soon as resources 
allow.  
 
I am also pleased to announce the appointment of Ian Lodwick as the new Group Finance Director from 31 
March 2008. Ian will initially be working for the Group in a part-time capacity, alongside his existing consultancy 
business. Ian has considerable experience working with developing media companies, including previously acting 
as the finance director of Viavision Limited, the satellite TV operator, which he helped to successfully build and 
sell. Most recently Ian has been acting as a financial consultant to a number of companies, including assisting 
Milestone in recent weeks following the resignation of Brian Chester. 
 
I would like to again place on record my gratitude to all of my colleagues who have demonstrated their loyalty and 
commitment to Milestone as it develops its new strategy. I wish my former colleagues all the best in their new 
projects and look forward to working closely with my new colleagues to develop Milestone's businesses.  
 
Finance  
 
The Group has a loan facility of  500,000 in place with Jamie Bloom, on  arms length' terms, which should enable 
it to continue to trade for the foreseeable future. Whilst this facility is regarded as legally binding, the Board is 
sympathetic to Jamie Bloom's current personal health problems and have not been able to draw down on this 
facility. The Board intends to use all reasonable endeavours to resolve this issue amicably but, if necessary, 
intends to take to take appropriate action to ensure the facility is honoured.  
 
The Board is in the process of considering further potential funding options to enable a more aggressive 
expansion of the Group and its businesses. As part of this process, a resolution is being tabled at the Annual 
General Meeting, to be held on 30 April 2008, giving the Board the authority to allot new shares to a value 
representing approximately 20 per cent of the issued share capital of the company. 
 
Outlook 
 
In the short term, the Group's new management intend to operate the existing businesses on a modest cost-
base. The Board anticipates that further investment will be required if revenues and earnings are to be 
significantly enhanced. The Board is reviewing funding options and intends to explore growth opportunities, both 
organic and via acquisition. The Board particularly intends to assess potential opportunities in the media, 
entertainment, leisure and related sectors. 
 
 
John Sanderson 
Chairman 
 
31 March 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 