 14    Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008
Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008   15
In June and July 2008, we detected a slowdown in the rate of growth in Asia and since 
then the Group has remained vigilant in controlling costs including a recruitment 
freeze and a halt on virtually all new capital expenditure apart from essential health 
and safety expenditure. We immediately took steps to implement cash conservation 
and profit protection plans for the Group. Through the successful implementation of 
these continued initiatives, I am pleased to report that, despite a softening of demand 
across all regions in which the Group operates, in the quarter ended 31 December 
2008, the Group has managed to partially mitigate the adverse market and financial 
conditions on the Group's hotel revenue and RevPAR.
Financial Performance
In reported currency, the Group's hotel revenues increased 7.1% and RevPAR increased 
7.6% for the 12 months ended 31 December 2008 while headline profit before tax 
increased by 6.4% to  125.9 million (2007:  118.3m) and headline operating profit 
increased by 2.4% to  143.5 million (2007:  140.2m).
In June the Group entered into a contract to dispose of CDL Hotels (Korea) Limited. 
However the purchaser was unable to complete the transaction and M&C recorded a 
 31.4 million gain arising from the forfeiture of the non-refundable cash deposit paid 
by the buyer, which boosted the Group's cash position by  27.3 million. 
The years immediately preceding the global economic turmoil and financial tsunami in 
2008 represented a period of high liquidity and relatively easy access to credit markets. 
This fueled an insatiable demand for real estate properties including hotels thereby 
contributing to an escalation in asset prices in many countries around the world. We 
adopted a conservative approach and have been selective in making our investments, 
with a particular emphasis on growing the Group's presence in key gateway cities in 
Asia.
While we have been less aggressive than many other investors, we have not been 
immune to the deterioration in the global markets. Arising from a critical review of the 
Group's investments in joint ventures in Asia, the Group's carrying value in the 30% joint 
venture in Beijing and 50% joint venture in Bangkok have been fully written down by 
an aggregate of  19.6 million in the fourth quarter. This is due to the difficult economic 
conditions and the over supplied hotel situation in Beijing post the Olympics and the 
chaIrMan'S StateMent
our actions have 
added stability and 
enhanced the Group's 
strength to withstand 
the current economic 
crisis 
14    Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008 14    Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008
Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008   15
unstable political conditions affecting business in Thailand. At the end of the year the 
Group took impairment charges of  15.5m on Sunnyvale, hotels in the UK and US, and 
land in India. The Group also recorded a loss of  20.4m which represents its share of the 
revaluation deficit (2007:  32.3m revaluation uplift) of investment properties of CDLHT, 
the Group's 39.0% associate in a Singapore-listed REIT. All these non-cash items have 
been separately identified in the income statement.
The Group's investment of  39.5m in China through First Sponsor, largely funded by 
surplus Australian dollars, benefited from exchange rate translation generating a 
currency gain of  14.3m which was credited to reserves.
Strong Balance Sheet and Capital Resources
The Group continues to maintain a strong balance sheet and low gearing at 16.4% 
(31 December 2007: 18.3%). As at 31 December 2008, the Group had total undrawn 
committed bank facilities available of  188.6m. Although the Group had repaid  40.0m 
of bank debt during the year, net debt increased by  23.0m from 2007 due to the effect 
of foreign currency translation.
Key Operational Highlights
During the year the Group opened seven new hotels; one in Beijing, two further 
hotels in China operating under franchise agreements and four in the Middle East 
region operating under management contracts.
In China the Millennium Harbourview Hotel Xiamen, a 352-room property, was 
contracted under a franchise agreement in January 2008. The hotel was formerly the 
Crowne Plaza Harbourview Hotel Xiamen. In April 2008 the Group opened its fourth 
Grand Millennium property, the 521-room Grand Millennium Beijing in China, and in 
May 2008 the Copthorne Hotel Qingdao, a 453-room property, was contracted under 
a franchise agreement. The hotel was formerly Hotel Equatorial Qingdao. In total, the 
Group has five properties in China. 
In the Middle East the Group opened four new properties under management contracts 
under three brands which are all new to the Middle East. The first property is the 
352-room Grand Millennium Dubai which was the third property in the Group to be 
launched under the Grand Millennium brand. The second is the Copthorne Hotel Dubai 
which has 163 rooms offering views over Dubai Creek and surrounding parks from 
private balconies. The third is the Al Jahrah Copthorne Hotel & Resort, the Group's first 
property in Kuwait. The Group opened its fourth property, the 108-room Kingsgate Abu 
Dhabi Hotel marking the first property trading under the Kingsgate brand outside of 
New Zealand.
The Group also announced the signing of a further eight management contracts, with 
seven in the United Arab Emirates and one in Kuwait. These properties are due to open 
between 2009 and 2011 and account for almost 2,300 additional rooms. This brings the 
number of rooms in the Group's worldwide pipeline to 5,168 rooms (17 hotels). 
The Group has largely completed a combined US$50.0m renovation project at the 
Millennium Bostonian in Boston and the Millennium Knickerbocker in Chicago to 
completely transform both properties to bring a stylish, high quality upscale look to 
both hotels.
Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008   15
chaIrMan'S StateMent 16    Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008
chaIrMan'S StateMent
Since the year end we have opened a new managed hotel in Sheffield and signed a 
management contract for two hotels in Liverpool.
Dividend
In this difficult trading climate, consistent with our focus on conserving cash, the Board 
is recommending a final dividend of 4.17p per share taking the full year dividend to 
6.25p per share.
CEO Appointment
We announced the appointment of Richard Hartman as Chief Executive Officer on 
7 April 2008. Richard joined the Board of Millennium & Copthorne on 7 May 2008.  
Wong Hong Ren reverted to his previous role as an Executive Director with responsibilities 
that include overseeing the Group's finance function.
Richard, aged 63 has over 30 years experience in the hotel and restaurant industry and 
has held senior positions at InterContinental Hotels Group where he was main Board 
Director from 2003 to 2007. He was also President of ITT Sheraton North America 
between 1992 and 1998. 
Looking Forward
Moving forward, global financial and credit markets are expected to remain volatile 
with the continued loss of confidence among investors, lenders and industry players 
alike. In this current uncertain climate, it is difficult to predict with accuracy how long 
these conditions will continue to exist and when a correction and improvement in 
market sentiment can be expected. We are cognisant of the fact that airline load factors 
are currently in decline despite the reduction in energy and fuel oil prices. Leisure and 
corporate travel are also facing great constraints. Group RevPAR for the first 5 weeks of 
2009 declined by 21.2% (New York -41%, Regional US -23%, Asia -20%, London -4%). 
Against this background, the Group is anticipating that the next few quarters will 
present challenging trading conditions which are expected to be partially mitigated 
by the fact that global rooms supply from new build hotels is limited due to the lack of 
debt financing. 
We have made some tough decisions in recent years, including changes in senior 
management, and have maintained our prudent approach to acquisitions, divestments 
and the way in which the Group is financed. Our actions have added stability and 
enhanced the Group's strength to withstand the current economic crisis. I believe that 
with a continued policy of tough, prudent and analytical management we can steer our 
ship through the roughest of waters. When calm returns to the world economic scene 
- as eventually it must - we will have secured an enviable competitive position from 
which we may exploit the best commercial opportunities that become available. 
Finally I would like to thank all our staff for their sterling efforts in 2008 and to express 
my sincere gratitude, as always, to our shareholders, for demonstrating their confidence 
in the Group, for remaining committed to our future, and for their belief in our ability to 
deliver further good results for 2009 and beyond.
Kwek Leng Beng
CHAIRMAN
17 February 2009
16    Millennium & copthorne hotels plc   annual report & accounts 2008