 4 MITIE Group PLC
This has been an exceptional year for MITIE. We have continued our
track record and delivered an impressive set of results, completed our
largest ever acquisition and won a series of new and exciting contracts
across a number of emerging and established markets. With a clear
corporate strategy, we are extremely well placed for the future.
Chairman's
Statement
MITIE provides a comprehensive range of support
services to both public and private sector 
clients in the UK. We will build on our success by
further strengthening the range of services we 
offer and by providing service excellence for 
all our customers. 
MITIE has achieved 19 years of consecutive
revenue, profit and dividend growth and now
employs over 39,000 staff. Our success is testament
to the Group's unique culture, which motivates both
management and staff to grow the business by
concentrating on the needs of our customers. 
The dedication of our employees, our core skills in
managing and motivating a large and diverse
workforce, and our passion to support our customers
is a real and valuable differentiator in the marketplace.
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome the
employees of our acquired companies to the
Group and thank everyone in MITIE for their
contribution to our success and their hard work 
over the financial year. 
Results
Turnover in the period rose to  935.6m (2005:
 799.7m), an increase of 17.0% on continuing
operations, while profit before tax and intangible
amortisation from continuing operations excluding
other operating income rose by 9.3% to  50.7m
(2005:  46.4m). Basic earnings per share (EPS)
increased by 11.6% to 9.8p (2005: 8.8p), whilst EPS
pre-amortisation, other operating income and
discontinued activities rose by 10.2% to 10.6p 
(2005: 9.6p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.4p
per share, which gives a total of 4.3p (2005: 3.4p) 
for the year. This represents an increase of 26.5%. 
The dividend will be paid on 29 September 2006 to
Shareholders on the Register at the close of business
on 8 September 2006. 
The dividend cover, based on the Group's profits 
for dividends declared in the year, is 2.5 times. 
The dividend cover for dividends paid in the year 
is 3.1 times.
Share buyback programme
We continued the share buyback programme
started in the previous financial year and purchased
992,305 MITIE Group PLC ordinary shares of 2.5p at
an average price of 162.6p. The highest price paid
was 164.0p while the lowest price paid was 158.5p.
All shares purchased have been cancelled. 
We will be seeking to renew the authority granted
by our Shareholders to purchase up to 10.0% of the
issued share capital of the Company, at our next
Annual General Meeting on 27 July 2006. 
Acquisitions
The year was exceptional in terms of our 
acquisition activity. 
Firstly, we made four external acquisitions in the year
at a total consideration of  91.6m, including Initial
Security Ltd our largest acquisition to date. 
Secondly, and in accordance with our unique
business model, we purchased the minority interests
in seven MITIE businesses for a total purchase
consideration of  9.4m. 
Three of our external acquisitions were in the security
sector, an area we have been strategically targeting,
and saw us purchase:
  Initial Security Ltd, the UK manned guarding
business of Rentokil Initial, for  70.8m (including
repayment of debt) in March 2006; 
  The Watch Security Ltd, a provider of manned
guarding and electronic security solutions in the
Midlands, for  8.0m in June 2005; and
  Intruder International Ltd, a specialist provider of
electronic security solutions in the UK, for  4.0m 
in May 2005. 
Profit before tax* ( m)
05 46.4
06 50.7
Dividends (p)
05 3.4
06 4.3
 101.0m
Invested in acquisitions in 2005/06
* Pre-amortisation and other 
operating income. providing security as a single service to Tate Britain in London.
Supplying gallery attendants to museums is a special niche in the security market.
Attendants do not t play a  traditional' security role, but are employed predominantly 
to be on hand to enhance the vi isitors' experience, providing information and
assistance in exhibition halls. The number of attendants needed at a museum is
subject to fluctuation and dependent on the type and scale of exhibition, which
means that MITIE may need to provide anywhere between three and 33 assistants
from day to day a at Tate Britain. We have been doing so since 1995, because we are
able to provide the right calibre o of attendant and value of service to meet the
customer's needs and demonstrate exceptional flexibilit ty.
we protect
creativity...
MITIE helps guide over 1.5 million people through Tate
Britain every year. providing a bundled service of cleaning and waste
management for Newcastle International Airport.
MITIE has been providing multiple services to Newcastle International Airport since
1997 and looks a after everything from the terminal and Air Traffic Control building 
to the freight village and on-site aviation academy. We help our client keep their 
facilities in top condition for both staff and t the public, providing services as wide
ranging as check-in desk and window cleaning, trolley collection and repair, and
waste and recycling. We have nearly 50 operatives working at the airport 24 hours s 
a day, 365 days a year, who make the building run smoothly, helping airport staff to
concentrate o on getting people off the ground. MITIE has added value to the customer
by being able to provide an e extensive and flexible portfolio of services, by adapting 
to their needs, and by understanding the a airport's mission statement,  One Team
Working Together', and making it our objective to fulfil it.
we support
take-off...
On average every MITIE employee on site walks
between five and six miles a day. at a PFI school in Darlington with our facilities 
management services.
Being part of the unique concept of bringing together a primary, secondary and
special needs school in one campus to enable the teaching of 1,400 students, 
was not only an exciting development for Da arlington and its local community, but 
for MITIE and the future of national education. We mobilised  the 25-year contract 
to deliver FM services in September 2005, partnering with our client to provid de 
better educational facilities for children and improved sustainable assets for local
communities. . With 40 employees on site we are responsible for a full range of 
FM services including helpdesk, c cleaning, catering, M&E maintenance, security and
grounds maintenance, as well as for the lifecycle m maintenance of all of the buildings.
MITIE was selected because we were able to provide the managemen nt and services
needed to support the facilities and property infrastructure.
we manage 
the future...
MITIE provides support services to 40 PFI schools 
across the UK. we inspire
passion...
in our employees through our ethos and culture.
MITIE understands that the business simply wouldn't have found the success it has to
date without it ts employees. Recognising that our people are our most valuable asset,
means we make sure that they a are treated as such. They are motivated, properly
trained and equipped, rewarded and respected. We provide opportunities for their
growth and in return they provide opportunities for ours; listening an nd responding 
to our customers and securing and retaining contracts year on year. Adding value,
ensu uring loyalty and providing quality services for clients, not only means that
customers are satisfied d but that shareholders are too; achieving sustainable
performance and long-term commitment.
MITIE employs approximately 39,000 individuals across
the business. MITIE Group PLC 9
Chairman's Statement continued
These acquisitions have transformed our Security
business into a strong nationwide operation which is
now ranked as the UK's second largest provider of
manned guarding. The integration of the businesses
is on plan. We are confident that our Security
business has considerable potential for the future.
Lyndhurst Services Ltd, a provider of external
grounds maintenance to commercial property 
sites across the UK, was also acquired by MITIE. 
The purchase of this company in February 2006, 
for  8.8m, has added to MITIE's regional coverage in
the landscaping market and has been an important
development in our strategy of growing that business.
Board changes
There have been a number of changes to the MITIE
Group PLC Board. Ruby McGregor-Smith, previously
Group Finance Director, was appointed Chief
Operating Officer in September 2005, while 
Suzanne Baxter was appointed Group Finance
Director, following the year end, in April 2006. 
David Jenkins and Ishbel Macpherson have both
joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors during
the period, bringing with them considerable
financial and professional experience. Manish
Chande has retired from the Board as Non-Executive
Director after four years of service. I would like to
thank him on behalf of the Board for his valuable
contribution to the development of the Group.
Pensions
In March 2006, the Group made a one-off
contribution of  7.8m to eliminate the actuarial
deficit on the MITIE Group PLC Pension Scheme. 
This is the Group's principal defined benefit pension
scheme and is now closed to new entrants. 
Corporate Governance 
The Board recognises its responsibilities in terms 
of ensuring that MITIE achieves high standards 
of Corporate Governance and conducts itself
appropriately in order to protect the interests 
of all MITIE stakeholders.
Corporate Responsibility 
This year we are acting to improve our communication
with MITIE stakeholders on matters concerning
corporate responsibility. We are therefore publishing
a separate report, that will also be available on our
corporate website, which expands further on the
areas already covered in this Annual Report. The
report will look in more detail at how MITIE motivates
and looks after its people, relates to the community,
works with charities and behaves in relation to our
environmental responsibilities. 
Outlook
MITIE has a solid track record in developing a
profitable business and it is our strategy to 
ensure that this continues. We will seek to grow
further organically and will make acquisitions 
within our chosen markets when appropriate
opportunities arise. 
We will continue managing our business in a manner
which facilitates sustainable growth and delivers
service excellence for our customers. We are
developing national coverage across the portfolio
of services we provide, which will enhance our
ability to work with customers across many sites
providing multiple services. 
The support services market is increasingly looking
for companies who are able to offer a wide range
of services with their own workforce and we are
clearly benefiting from that trend. As a result of this
we expect significant contract opportunities 
which, when combined with the energy and
commitment of our employees, will ensure MITIE 
will continue to prosper. 
We are well positioned for future growth.
D David C Ord
Chairman
 7.8m
C Contribution to pension scheme