  M J Gleeson Group plc 2006 Report and Accounts
Chairman's Statement
The Board remains 
convinced that the 
refocusing of the 
Group's activities 
will enable it to 
achieve a substantial 
and sustained 
improvement 
in its operating 
performance and 
to deliver to our 
shareholders higher 
and more consistent 
returns
The year to 30 June 2006 was one of rapid and far-reaching change, 
resulting from the Board's commitment to a radically revised 
corporate strategy. This is principally designed to reduce the Group's 
exposure to contracting in the construction sector and to strengthen 
its position in more attractive markets where it already has a strong 
track record.
As stated in the announcement of the outcome of the Strategic 
Review, issued on 31 March 2006, simultaneous with the Interim 
Announcement, the Group will henceforth concentrate primarily 
on three related areas: urban housing regeneration; commercial 
property development; and strategic land trading. These are all 
areas which are believed to offer considerable scope for sustained 
growth in profits.
During the year , or subsequently (in the case of Gleeson Engineering 
Division), the Group divested substantially all of its Construction 
Division. Additionally, by the year end, the greater part of the  
Group's investment property portfolio and of its holdings of non-
strategic land not yet under development had been sold and a 
substantial reduction in Gleeson Homes' traditional housebuilding 
activities had commenced. I am pleased to report that the substantial 
disposal programme resulting from the decision to narrow the 
Group's focus has generated substantial profits and cash. 
RESULTS
These are the Group's first annual consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Group's IFRS accounting policies have been applied in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements for the year to 30 June 2006, 
the comparative information for the year to 30 June 2005 and the 
preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 July 2004 (the 
date of transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
(UK GAAP)) to IFRS. 
The results show revenue relating to continuing operations of  386.7m 
(2005:  522.4m), an operating profit of  0.9m (2005: operating loss 
of  10.9m) and a loss before tax of  3.0m (2005:  17.8m). A post-tax 
profit from discontinued businesses of  12.3m was derived (2005: 
 3.2m), representing the gain on disposal of Gleeson MCL Limited 
and Concrete Repairs Limited (Gleeson Building Contracting Division 
and Gleeson Engineering Division being classified under IFRS as 
continuing, despite their sale, because of retained liabilities with 
regard to certain incomplete contracts). The basic and diluted loss 
per share from continuing operations was 5.10p (2005: 25.49p). 
The Group's profit for the year attributable to equity holders of 
the parent company, including both  continuing' and  discontinued' 
items as defined by IFRS, was  9.7m (2005: loss of  9.8m).
Year end shareholders' funds totalled  156.2m (2005:  150.1m), 
representing net assets per share of 303p (2005: 292p). Net debt 
fell sharply in the second half of the year , as a result of the disposal 
programme and a working capital review, to  14.7m at 30 June 
2006, compared with  102.3m at 31 December 2005 and  60.7m at 
30 June 2005. Since the year end, net debt has fallen further , and 
08
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  M J Gleeson Group plc 2006 Report and Accounts
Chairman's Statement
there is potential for the Group to be substantially cash positive in 
the latter part of the current financial year.
DIVIDENDS
A final dividend of 6.9p per share is proposed, payable on 11 January 
2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 December 2006. This 
represents an increase of 6.2% on last year's final dividend of 6.5p 
per share and reflects the Board's confidence in the prospects of the 
Group's retained businesses. Together with the interim dividend of 
1.6p per share (2005: 1.5p), paid on 30 June 2006, dividends for the 
year will total 8.5p (2005: 8.0p) per share, an increase of 6.3%.
POSSIBLE OFFER BY CASTLE ACQUISITIONS
On 10 January 2006, Castle Acquisitions, a much smaller AIM-traded 
company, announced a possible offer for the Company, substantially 
all in shares. This possible offer was withdrawn on 31 March 2006. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
All of the Group's continuing businesses strengthened their market 
positions during the year. In urban housing regeneration, we 
were particularly pleased to be appointed preferred bidder for a 
 70m social housing PFI project in Ashford, Kent, our first major 
regeneration project in the South of England. The restructuring 
of Powerminster Limited, whose operations have been rebranded 
as Gleeson Services, was completed and the company returned to 
profitability. Gleeson Strategic Land and the development activities 
of Gleeson Properties both performed strongly.
As forewarned in trading statements in May and July, Gleeson 
Homes' traditional housebuilding operations - which are being 
largely discontinued - were deeply disappointing. Much lower than 
anticipated sales volumes in the second half of the year , construction 
cost overruns and the need for a substantial write-down of  7.5m on 
the carrying value of a small number of sites resulted in an overall 
loss for this business.
Prior to being sold, Gleeson MCL Limited and Concrete Repairs 
Limited both performed satisfactorily and Gleeson Engineering 
Division's results for the year were very satisfactory.
BOARD CHANGES
Following the Strategic Review, it was decided to reduce the size of 
the Board and to ensure that henceforth its Non-Executive Directors 
are in a majority; also to reshape the Board to enhance its ability to 
lead and control the Group in its new form.
In order to make this possible, two Executive Directors, Steve Davies, 
the Managing Director of Gleeson Properties, and Tony Collins, the 
Managing Director of Gleeson Engineering Division, both resigned 
from the Board (but not the Company) in April 2006. In addition, 
Lord Selsdon retired, after 12 years as a Non-Executive Director , in 
July 2006 and John McKenna retired as a Non-Executive Director in 
October 2006. I would like to thank all four for their considerable 
contributions to the Company.
09
All of the  
Group's continuing 
businesses 
strengthened their 
market positions 
during the year  M J Gleeson Group plc 2006 Report and Accounts 10
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Paul Wallwork joined the Group in January and succeeded Colin 
McLellan as Group Finance Director on Colin's retirement after the 
AGM, later that month, after 27 years with the Group, the last 17 
of them as Group Finance Director. Paul was formerly at Inchcape, 
where he was the Managing Director of a business unit of a similar 
size to the restructured Gleeson Group, having originally trained as 
an accountant with Arthur Young, qualifying as an ACA. As announced 
in July 2006, Paul assumed the role of Interim Group Chief Executive 
on the resignation of Terry Massingham.
In August 2006, Edwin Lawrie, who remains as Company Secretary, 
was appointed an Interim Executive Director.
Finally, as regards the Board, I am pleased to be able to welcome 
two new Non-Executive Directors. Ross Ancell ACA(NZ), whose 
appointment was effective from 1 October 2006, is the Executive   M J Gleeson Group plc 2006 Report and Accounts
Dermot Gleeson
Non-Executive Chairman
Opposite: Grove Village, Manchester 
11
Chairman of Churngold (a groundworks, construction and recycling 
business), and from 1981 to 1996 was with George Wimpey, latterly 
as Managing Director , Wimpey Minerals, and a member of the Wimpey 
Group Management Board. Terry Morgan, whose appointment 
became effective on 1 November 2006, is the CEO of Tube Lines 
and previously was Group Managing Director - Operations (2001-
02) and Group HR Director (1996-2001) at BAe Systems. Both have 
extensive expertise and experience relevant to the development 
and implementation of the Group's new strategy.
EMPLOYEES
The disruption and uncertainty that have accompanied the extensive 
changes that have been made to the Group have tested the 
commitment of all of our employees. The Board would like to thank 
them for their resilience and patience in difficult circumstances.
PROSPECTS
There is much work still to be done to deliver the transformational 
change which our new strategic vision requires. However , the Board 
remains convinced that the refocusing of the Group's activities will 
enable it to achieve a substantial and sustained improvement in its 
operating performance and to deliver to shareholders higher and 
more consistent returns. In particular , the Group's risk profile will 
be very substantially improved by the disposal of both building and 
civil engineering contracting, by the scaling down of traditional 
housebuilding, by the narrowing of management's focus and by the 
elimination of material indebtedness.
The Group expects to remain strongly cash generative in the 
course of the current financial year. An option that therefore is 
likely to become available to the Board will be a return of cash to 
shareholders. The scale and timing of any such return will depend on 
our assessment of the returns that can be achieved by our continuing 
businesses and their capital requirements.