  2 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
OVERVIEW 
 
The financial year to 31 March 2008 was a 
transformational one for the MKM Group. The 
acquisitions of the Leapfrog business in Australia in 
August 2007 and the Promodus business in London 
in October 2007 more than doubled the Group's size 
and have broadened our geographic reach and 
strengthened our market offering. We now employ 
approximately 100 people in offices in the UK, 
Australia and New Zealand.  
 
The integration of both our acquisitions is now 
substantially complete. In the final quarter of the 
financial year, we adopted the Leapfrog name across 
our existing loyalty and sales promotion business, 
formerly MKM Concepts, and all our businesses 
now share common IT platforms and product 
development resources. These developments allow 
us to focus our development resources on core 
products such as StARS thus improving the 
competiveness of our client offer.  
 
As our results show, following the acquisition of 
Leapfrog, some 60% of annual Group revenues are 
now generated in the Asia Pacific region, a growth 
region for our services.  Additionally our 
management focus has shifted substantially towards 
the delivery of longer term, multi-year loyalty and 
Customer Relationship Management (CRM ) 
programmes as opposed to shorter, tactical 
marketing campaigns. These longer term 
programmes allow us to build productive 
relationships with clients and provide greater 
visibility of earnings. 
 
Whilst this strategic shift has been very positive for 
the business the market environment deteriorated, 
and in the second half of the financial year and sales 
across the business were below our expectations.  
 
Since the financial year end, we have continued to 
implement the strategy announced at the time of the 
Leapfrog acquisition and have begun to see the sales 
position improve. An important development in the 
first quarter of the new financial year was the launch 
of a new flagship product,  Airport Angel', which 
has strengthened our offering to customers. The 
launch was well received and I am pleased to report 
that we have secured some major contracts with 
large financial institutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW  
 
The full year results of the combined business on a 
pro-forma basis assuming that the acquisition of 
both the Leapfrog and Promodus businesses had 
been completed on the first day of the financial year 
show sales of  10.3m and an operating profit of 
 686,000. The pro-forma operating profit is struck 
after taking into account one-off charges in the 
businesses acquired that are not expected to re-
occur. The pro-forma sales of  10.3m are 
approximately 260% of the prior year statutory sales 
of  3.9m illustrating the impact of the acquisitions 
on the size of the Group. 
 
The audited results show sales of  6,970,000 (2007 
 3,888,000) and include 7 months contribution from 
the Leapfrog business and 6 months contribution 
from Promodus, being the results generated since 
acquisition. The loss from operations of  222,000 
(2007 profit  404,000) was primarily associated 
with poor performance from the Leapfrog Australia 
business during the second half of the financial year 
resulting from the loss of a major client and a 
reduction in the volume of promotional sales. 
 
We ended the year with a total cash deficit of 
 208,000 (2007: surplus of  1,906,000). The cash 
reduction is primarily associated with the financing 
of the two acquisitions. 
 
OPERATIONS  
 
The focus during the year has been on the 
completion of the two acquisitions and their 
subsequent integration into the Group. As part of 
this process, we have rebranded the UK business, 
previously MKM Concepts, as Leapfrog and also 
sought to simplify the structure of our Asia-Pacific 
operations. We continue to push ahead to fully 
integrate our businesses and exploit the benefits of 
their respective relationships with blue chip multi-
national clients.  These initiatives allow us to 
significantly improve the solutions we build for our 
clients and maximise the benefits we gain from our 
key staff.  
 
StARS 
 
Last year, the Group made a major investment in the 
development of StARS, its web-based database 
programme. The StARS programme allows us to 
hold comprehensive details of promotional offers on 
one database and readily supports the activity of 
multiple clients. StARS also enables our clients' 
consumers to access promotional offers easily and 
provides clients with enhanced management 
information on the results of marketing campaigns.    
 3 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED  
 
The launch of StARS represented a major step 
forward in the fulfilment of campaigns for clients 
and helped Leapfrog UK to win a number of 
accounts during the year. StARS is now being 
utilised to support all of our major clients in the UK 
and creates significant operational efficiencies.  
 
Leapfrog Australia is now using StARS to support a 
number of significant new business pitches.  We 
have continued to enhance StARS to meet the 
demands of new clients and the programme provides 
us with some significant advantages which allow us 
to differentiate ourselves from competitors. 
 
Loyalty Schemes 
 
The acquisition of Leapfrog strengthened our 
capability in the management of point collection 
loyalty schemes. Following the year end we signed a 
major three year contract in New Zealand with 
Genesis, the government owned utility, to run its 
consumer loyalty programme, servicing 550,000 
households. 
 
Airport Angel  
 
After the year end, in May 2008 we launched 
Airport Angel.  Airport Angel membership allows 
consumers to access airport lounges across the world 
and to receive a number of other support services 
aimed at enhancing their travel experience. The 
product includes an innovative text service which 
enables consumers to receive information on their 
mobile phones about their plane arrival and 
departure times.  
 
We have ambitious plans for the development of 
Airport Angel and over the next 12 months will be 
developing the product and launching it to 
international markets. At present, sales of the 
product are primarily focused on the retail banking 
and financial services sector. In these sectors, the 
product becomes an integral part of our clients' offer 
to their consumer. This in turn helps to support our 
strategy of increasing the proportion of our revenues 
derived from long term contracts.  
 
Airport Angel has been well received by the market 
and, since the financial year end, we have signed 
major contracts with UK based banks and are in 
discussions with a number of other major potential 
clients. 
 
 
 
Promodus 
 
The Promodus business, which provides a full range 
of marketing services specialising in servicing 
clients in the financial services, B2B and technology 
sectors, finished the year on a very positive note 
hitting the targets agreed at the time of the 
acquisition. As a result of this we paid a second 
consideration  125,000. 
 
Since the year end the Promodus business has been 
adversely affected by the economic slowdown. Their 
major financial service clients have cut budgets and 
in general are being more cautious with their 
expenditure. 
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
 
In February we reported that short term sales were 
disappointing but that the longer term pipeline 
remained strong. I am pleased to say that in the UK 
we have closed a number of the long term contracts 
that we were negotiating at that time and, since the 
financial year end, Leapfrog Australia has won a 
number of tactical marketing campaigns. Since the 
financial year end, the UK tactical business, which 
was under-performing, has been brought under the 
control of Brian Smillie who is now managing the 
sales force internationally. 
 
THE BOARD  
 
The composition of the Board has changed with our 
acquisitions.  In August 2007, we were pleased to 
welcome co-founders of the Leapfrog business, 
Brian Smillie and Richard Tenser, to the Board. 
Brian assumed the role of International Managing 
Director. In January 2008, Victor Koch stepped 
down from the Board and I would formally like to 
thank him on behalf of all the Directors for his 
contribution to the Group over many years. 
 
STRATEGY 
 
In my statement last year I explained that the 
acquisition of Leapfrog Group gave us the 
opportunity to build a first rate and robust loyalty 
and sales promotion business with substantial 
potential for growth. We remain focused on this 
objective. Our recent contract wins and the 
successful launch of Airport Angel have confirmed 
the validity of this strategy. We continue to focus on 
securing long-term loyalty and CRM contracts 
which provide greater visibility of future earnings 
and a more solid platform upon which to build. 
 
   4 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED  
 
Last year I also stated that we would continue to 
search for an acquisition that would enable us to 
build a second leg for the Group. However, given 
the current market and economic environment our 
primary focus will be on organic growth. Whilst 
there are acquisition opportunities we will focus on 
those that strengthen our existing offer.  
 
CURRENT TRADING & PROSPECTS 
 
The Company entered the current financial year with 
a larger and broader business base and greater 
critical mass in key areas such as information 
technology and product development. Whilst it has 
taken longer to achieve our targets than we had 
hoped at the time of the acquisitions, we now have a 
good platform upon which to build.  
 
Traditionally, in a tough economic climate, the 
market focuses more on exploiting sales promotion 
and direct marketing tools which have measurable 
results. Thus whilst the economic slow down has 
increased the time taken to close large contracts, we 
believe that we will be able to build our business 
through providing clients with innovative and cost 
effective campaigns with measurable results. 
 
We view prospects for the group positively despite 
the difficult economic environment. 
 
ANDREW JOHNSON 
CHAIRMAN 
 
29 September 2008 
 
 
 