 19 Molins PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
I am pleased to have this opportunity to report to you on the responsibilities and 
activities of the Board. Earlier in this document we have explained how the Group 
has performed in the year, how it is structured and what its strategic objectives are.  
I explain below how the Board goes about ensuring it performs its duties effectively.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all employees for their commitment 
and their contribution to the performance of the Group during the year.
The Board's activities
The Board met seven times during 2013. The directors consider that the Company 
complied throughout 2013 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and those contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the Large and 
Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
and with effect from 1 October 2013 the Large and Medium  sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
The Board is responsible for:
  Group strategy, business planning, budgeting and risk management; 
  monitoring performance against budget and other agreed objectives; 
  setting the Group's values and standards, including policies on employment, 
health & safety, environment and ethics; 
  relationships with shareholders and other major stakeholders; 
  determining the financial and corporate structure of the Group (including 
financing and dividend policy); 
  major investment and divestment decisions, and approving material contracts; and 
  Group compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
Day to day management of the Company's businesses is delegated to the executive 
directors and in turn to business unit managing directors or general managers in 
accordance with a clear and comprehensive statement of delegated authorities. 
The Board reviews at each meeting comprehensive financial and trading information 
produced by management each month and considers the trends in the Company's 
businesses and their performance against strategic objectives and plans. It also 
regularly reviews the work of its formally constituted standing Committees as 
described below and compliance with the Group's policies and obligations.
The director recognised as the Senior Independent Director for the purposes of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code is currently Mr Moorhouse. The Board also considers 
Mr Davies to be an independent director. The non  executive directors met with me as 
Chairman on a number of occasions during the year without the executive directors 
being present.
In furtherance of the principles of good corporate governance, the Board has 
appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each with formal 
terms of reference, which can be read on the Company's website at www.molins.com. 
The current memberships of the Committees are shown on page 18. All members of 
the Board and its Committees attended all meetings held in 2013.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and of the Remuneration Committee report 
on their activities on pages 21 and 23 respectively. The Nomination Committee,  
which I chair, is responsible for formulating and reviewing proposals for the 
appointment of directors and making recommendations thereon to the Board. 
It met once during 2013 and intends to meet at least once a year to review the 
structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board and its Committees 
(including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the need for 
succession planning or membership of the Board). 
The directors attend seminars from time to time as appropriate to assist with training 
in their awareness of compliance issues facing boards of quoted companies. 
Directors have ensured they maintain awareness of current issues and skills 
development, through membership of professional associations where appropriate. 
Chairman's report
Avril Palmer-Baunack
Chairman 20 Molins PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors are set out in the Remuneration report. The non  executive directors' 
terms of engagement are set out in their letters of appointment. In each case, compensation for loss of office of a non  executive 
director is specifically excluded by the letter of appointment.
Mr Davies and I are both non  executive directors of Helphire Group plc. The Board has reviewed this and believes that no conflict 
arises as a result.
Board performance evaluation
The Board carries out a formal review each year in respect of its performance over the previous year. The evaluation is informed 
by detailed questionnaires completed by each director. In addition, as part of the annual process of performance evaluation 
undertaken by the Board, the Senior Independent Director leads a review of the performance of the Chairman of the Board.
Relationships with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining regular dialogue with institutional shareholders to ensure that its strategy  
is communicated and any concerns can be addressed. In addition, all shareholders have the opportunity to attend the Annual 
General Meeting where the Group's operations can be discussed with the directors. The Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director make themselves available for meetings with analysts and representatives of the major shareholders on the day of the 
announcement of the preliminary results and the half  year results or shortly thereafter and upon request at other times of the 
year, and they report accordingly to the Board on shareholders' views. Any shareholder wishing to meet with the directors 
should make themselves known to the Secretary. The non  executive directors are available to attend meetings with major 
shareholders thus enabling the shareholders to draw their attention to any views that they consider need special emphasis.  
The non  executive directors can be contacted through the Secretary.
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and has established a framework of financial and other 
material controls that is periodically reviewed in accordance with the Turnbull guidance for its effectiveness. The Board has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended 31 December 2013 and intends to review 
controls annually, having ensured that appropriate control mechanisms and review processes are in place.
The Board has taken and will continue to take appropriate measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities 
occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in the Group, fostering  
an open environment and ensuring that financial analysis is rigorously applied. Any system of internal control can, however,  
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The major elements of the system of internal control are as follows:
  major commercial, strategic and financial risks are formally identified, quantified and assessed by each business during the annual 
budgeting exercise and presented to and discussed with executive directors, after which they are considered by the Board; 
  there is a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting, reporting and monitoring of the Group's businesses. This includes 
monthly management reporting and monitoring of performance and forecasts. Monthly reviews are embedded in the internal 
control process and cover each principal business. Monthly reviews require each business to consider, among other things, 
business development, financial performance against budget and forecast, health and safety and capital expenditure 
proposals, as well as a review of longer term business development and all other aspects of the business. They are attended 
by executive directors and other Group personnel as appropriate; 
  there is an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
  each business is required to comply with defined policies, financial controls and procedures and authorisation levels which  
are clearly communicated;
  a regular programme of internal control reviews and specific investigations is carried out by Group finance personnel.  
These are followed up during regular executive management visits. The internal control reviews include assessments of 
compliance with Group policies and procedures and findings are reported to the Audit Committee and Board as appropriate;
  there is a whistleblower procedure of which all employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line 
management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside line management; and 
  a formal risk management audit is regularly carried out by Group personnel and external risk management consultants,  
which covers physical damage, environmental and health and safety risks together with business continuity issues.  
Formal reports including recommendations are sent to each business for action and reported back to Group management. 
Progress reports are issued to the Board for review and monitoring.
Avril Palmer-Baunack
Chairman
26 February 2014
Chairman's report continued