 Chairman's Statement
Introduction
It gives me great pleasure to report on Appian and the progress the Group has made over the last year. The year has been very
positive for the Group, which is demonstrated in the financial results which show our inaugural profit. 
Overview
  Turnover up 77.5% to  5.15 million (2005:  2.90 million)
  Gross profit up to 52.4% at  2.70 million (2005: 49.1% and  1.43 million) 
  Profit after tax of  106,000 (2005: loss of  941,000)
  Market for traffic management and terror related surveillance technology is
growing
  Substantially increased order intake in the UK particularly amongst government
bodies and police forces
  Further progress in international markets with sales to police and security
customers in Canada, USA, Mexico and a number of Middle Eastern countries
  Acquisition of Genesis UK Limited (Genesis) in July 2006 for an initial  1.40 million giving enhanced product range
and client base and fundraising of  2.33million
  Broadened core middle management team to cater for increased business
  Listed on AIM in January 2006 raising  2.08 million before expenses 
  Well positioned to take advantage of continued growth in UK and international Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR)
related markets
  New COBRA camera recently introduced and other ANPR based products in development
Appian operates in the rapidly expanding security and traffic management markets supplying a range of products based on its
leading Talon ANPR engine and its recently acquired Shark ANPR products and back office systems. Customers are mainly police
forces, national and local governments as well as corporations both in the UK and internationally. Our initial focus was on the
UK market where we now have a wide presence. We continue to broaden our penetration into international markets which
show good growth potential. Appian has an excellent research and development team who are committed to keeping our
products at the forefront in their markets and applications.
Results
The year ended 30 September 2006 was another year of significant progress for Appian and one which saw the Group make
an inaugural profit after tax. Order intake increased significantly, rewarding the investment we have made in recent years in
sales, marketing and product development.
Turnover increased to  5.15 million (2005:  2.90 million), and gross profit margin increased to 52.4% (2005:
49.1%). 
Profit after tax for the year was  106,000 (2005: loss  941,000) which is equivalent to  0.001 per share
(2005: loss  0.016 per share).
Other operating expenses increased to  2.65 million (2005:  2.40 million). The increase in operating expenses
of  0.25 million included the operating expenses of Genesis of  0.16 million for the period since its acquisition
on 20 July. The increase in operating expenses in Appian of  0.09 million related principally to costs associated
with improving operational management, research and development and sales and marketing.
Market
In my report last year I stated that, as a Group specialising in security products, we have a market opportunity that is large and
at an early stage in its lifecycle. This remains valid and is reinforced by the substantial increase in order intake during the last
year and the continuing pipeline of potential business.
The UK market has shown growth during the past year, where our business is primarily focused on providing fixed and mobile
ANPR systems to a range of police forces and commercial customers. The acquisition of Genesis in July 2006 has expanded
3
In 2006 Appian
experienced
substantially increased
order intake from UK
police forces who
deployed Appian's
Automatic Number Plate
Recognition (ANPR)
systems in marked and
unmarked vehicles, vans
and motorbikes.
City of Mexico Police
squad car fitted with
onboard camera and
Appian's ANPR system.
Mexico is one of several
overseas markets were
Appian made further
sales progress in 2006.
Year ended 30 September 2006 Chairman's Statement
our customer base and introduced the Group to new markets particularly in petrol
forecourt surveillance. The Directors believe the outlook for these markets is positive.
Appian has also made very good progress in the international market during the
last year and the prospects for the Group remain positive. The Group has increased
its exposure to world markets, making sales to police and security customers in
Canada, USA and Mexico, as well as a number of Middle Eastern countries.
Prospects for sales growth in the international market remain very good and the
Group is currently tendering for a number of international contracts. Genesis was
successful in its tender with joint venture partners to provide a road user charging
scheme for Malta, which will be an excellent reference site and provide us with
avenues into other countries.
Spending on sales and marketing in international markets has been increased to deliver sales increases going forward. The Group
also intends to increase its focus on the traffic and transport markets in forthcoming years.
As a result of the above activity, we are positive about future market growth.
Products and Research & Development
Research & Development was focused during the year on continuing improvements and internationalising our core ANPR engine,
improving its ease of use and user interface, bespoke developments for specific customers and continuing specialist camera
development, particularly our new Cobra Camera. We are also investing in new ANPR based products which are expected to
increase our sales and margins, which we will be introducing in the current year.
The acquisition of Genesis in July 2006 broadened the Group's product range especially
with a new, easy to use hand held ANPR device and back office systems which can
make valuable use of the data captured by ANPR cameras.
Management
Development of the management team continues as the Group grows. We
have experienced considerable growth during the past two years and we expect
this to increase in years to come. With this in mind, the focus of management
team development is now to ensure that core senior and middle management
is effective in:
  ensuring that our sales and marketing efforts are effectively manned 
  delivering the sales growth
  supporting our maintenance customers
  managing research and development and 
  ensuring financial management and systems effectively deal with the increased
workload
Increasing our senior and core middle management team and sales resources
has resulted in a necessary increase in costs. The acquisition and integration of
Genesis also increased our staffing and added additional valuable management
resource to the Group.
We have recently strengthened our management team in research and
development, operations and maintenance and customer service.
4
The specialist COBRA
camera developed by
Appian Technology's
Research and
Development team for
use with Appian's ANPR
systems.
Appian's range was
extended to mobile
phone captured ANPR
with the acquisition of
Genesis and its mShark
range,  the world's
smallest ANPR system. Chairman's Statement
AIM and Placing
In order to increase our market awareness and raise our profile internationally, Appian
was admitted to trading on AIM in January 2006. At that time we raised  1.68 million
net of expenses in additional equity in order to fund the expansion of our business and
take advantage of the business opportunity in ANPR.
Acquisition of Genesis and Placing
In July 2006 Appian acquired ANPR developer and supplier Genesis
(UK) Ltd for an initial consideration of  1.40 million. The acquisition
was paid for by  699,000 in cash before acquisition expenses and
the remainder by issue of ordinary shares in Appian. Deferred
consideration of up to  1.55 million based on the profits before tax of Genesis for the years ending 31 December 2006 and 2007
may be payable. At the discretion of the Company, up to 50 per cent of the deferred consideration is to be satisfied by the issue
of new ordinary shares at the prevailing market price subject to a minimum price of  0.0925 per new ordinary share, with the
balance to be satisfied in cash. 
At the time of the acquisition the Group raised  2.33 million by way of placing.
This acquisition expanded our market penetration in the UK and internationally and significantly strengthened the Group's strategic
customer base in the UK police market. It also increased Appian's product range and service offering with back office and hand
held systems in the policing, security; counter terrorism, traffic management and commercial markets. 
Board 
Apparatus bellis fortiter iocari oratori. Vix saetosus rures libere fermentet fiducias, quamquam plane fragilis agricolae conubium
santet Medusa, et pretosius matrimonii suffragarit adfabilis oratori, utcunque matrimonii
neglegenter conubium santet optimus tremulus syrtes. Octavius imputat chirographi.
Aquae Sulis pessimus frugaliter conubium santet vix verecundus saburre, iam pretosius
syrtes deciperet fragilis matrimonii. Augustus insectat suis, quod quadrupei iocari
Medusa, semper fiducias corrumper
In accordance with the provisions of the Company's Articles of Association both ABC
and XYZ will go forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
John Finan who has served as a non executive director with Appian since 1999 has,
following a review of his portfolio of work, decided to step down as a non executive
director on the Board of Appian. We thank him for his contribution to Appian and wish
him well.
Outlook
The outlook going forward is very positive. There is considerable growth potential in our markets in the UK and Internationally.
We have an excellent product range which we are expanding with complimentary and margin enhancing products. Business in
hand to date is ahead of last year and the Group has a growing pipeline. We are looking forward to a further increase in sales
in the year to September 2007, which gives the management and Board at Appian the confidence to look forward very positively
to the future.
Pat Ryan
Executive Chairman and CEO 
8 December 2006
5
The screen interface
provide by Appian's Big
Fish back office server
system. It can manage
and control multiple
ANPR assets, including
ANPR vehicle fleets,
multiple fixed ANPR
camera systems,
handheld ANPR devices
and portable ANPR
devices.
Roof-mounted ANPR
camera system on a
Canadian Mounties
squad car - one of three
North American markets
were Appian made
further sales progress
in 2006.