 04
Morson Group plc annual report and accounts 2009 www.morson.com
GeRRy Mason
non-executive chaiRMan
read the chairman's statement online at 
aR09.MoRson.co M/chai RMan
chairman's statement
int RoDuction
The worldwide recession and its impact has 
seen the general UK economy suffer notably 
over the last two years with unprecedented 
liquidity issues and it is against that backdrop 
that I am pleased to report that we achieved 
solid results in challenging market conditions. 
The effects of this market decline on 
Morson Group PLC (the Group  or Morson ) 
have been tempered by several factors including 
the relative greater resilience of the sectors 
in which we operate, the impact of specific 
project demands and through having a strong 
business model with significant bias towards 
temporary contractor resource, as opposed 
to being reliant on permanent fee income. 
Looking back on 2009 whilst we experienced 
a strong first quarter, margins and contractor 
numbers declined during the remainder of 
the year . However Morson Projects continued 
to trade strongly throughout the year 
producing robust results and developing 
further exciting opportunities within 
Power, Nuclear and Aerospace. 
Overall, the fundamentals of our business 
remain sound and our business model 
has adapted well to current conditions 
and Morson remains significantly profitable 
and cash generative. Whilst at the adjusted profit 
before tax level Group results are down by 8.0% 
for the year, to  10.8 million, we consider 
this result, within the current environment, 
to be a good outcome, retaining our position 
as a leading performer in our sector. 
It is also pleasing to report that despite 
these challenging and competitive times 
we have maintained a reasonable level of 
contract wins during the period and secured 
extensions and some renewals to existing 
contracts. These include contracts with Thales, 
London Underground and Airbus. Our current 
order book is strong and importantly the pipeline 
of opportunities remains promising. However, 
we remain cautious about 2010 as we await 
clearer signals that the recessionary trading 
environment is coming to an end.
Results 
Key financial highlights include:
b  Group revenues up 1.2% to  436.6 million 
(2008:  431.4 million);
b  Group net fee income down 5.3% 
to  34.8 million (2008:  36.7 million);
b  adjusted operating profit decreased by 9.0% 
from  13.5 million to  12.3 million*;
b  operating profit decreased by 5.5% from 
 11.3 million to  10.7 million;
b  adjusted profit before tax down 8.0% 
to  10.8 million (2008:  11.7 million)
 
;
b  profit before tax up 22.5% to  9.7 million 
(2008:  7.9 million);
b  profit after tax up 24.4% to  7.2 million 
(2008:  5.8 million);
b  adjusted basic earnings per share down 
10.5% to 18.48 pence (2008: 20.64 pence)
 
;
b  basic earnings per share up 24.5% 
to 16.07 pence (2008: 12.91 pence);
b  Group net assets increased from 
 52.9 million to  57.4 million; and
b  proposed final dividend of 4.0 pence 
per share (2008: 4.0 pence).
*  Before amortisation of  1,222,000 (2008:  972,000) 
and exceptional head office relocation cost of  434,000 
(2008:  1,280,000).
 
  Before amortisation of  1,222,000 (2008:  972,000), 
exceptional head office relocation cost of  434,000 
(2008:  1,280,000) and fair value gain regarding 
the derivative financial instrument  530,000 
(2008: fair value loss  1,593,000).
A reconciliation of adjusted operating profit 
and profit before tax to the Consolidated 
Income Statement is provided within the 
Business Review.
Our staff have yet again 
continued to apply themselves 
with energy and passion and I am 
impressed with everyone's spirit 
and enthusiasm. We continue to 
be encouraged by the performance 
of the Group and the dedication 
and capability of its employees 
at all levels and the strong 
team culture that prevails both 
across the Group and with our 
valued customers.
I am pleased to report that we achieved solid results 
in challenging market conditions. The effects of the 
recession on the UK economy have been widespread 
but for Morson Group PLC have been tempered by several 
factors including the relative greater resilience of the sectors 
in which we operate, the impact of specific project demands 
and through having a strong business model with significant 
bias towards temporary contractor resource.
_1_MRN_ar09_FRONT.indd   4 07/04/2010   09:20:13 05
Morson Group plc annual report and accounts 2009 www.morson.com
business review corporate governance financial statements
04 chairman's statement
05 chairman's statement
in-depth 
experience
st Rate Gy
Looking forward our strategy continues to 
focus on the provision of engineering-based 
support services, which utilises our technical 
engineering resources and human capital 
expertise, complemented by our professional 
project management and consultancy skills. 
Acknowledging the economic downturn, 
during 2009 the Board has reviewed 
the delivery of this strategy and reduced 
overheads through headcount reductions 
in certain areas and via one office closure. 
At the same time this is blended with a balance 
of investment into new niche areas for future 
growth, for example within Rail and Information 
Communication Technology (ICT).
A key part of our strategy is to further 
develop Morson Projects' differentiating 
consultancy offering which provides project 
engineering and design services through 
managed outsourced work packages, 
delivering higher operating margins. We will 
also continue to develop new business within 
our Managed Vendor recruitment offering. 
In particular, we aim to increase our revenue 
from overseas business, along with further 
investment into new areas such as Power, 
Automotive, Highways, Support Services, 
Utilities and other complementary disciplines.
We are in a stable position due to the quality 
and visibility of earnings, strong operating cash 
flow, a solid order book and a robust balance 
sheet. We have an opportunity to grow areas of 
higher value services and other complementary 
skilled sectors. The Board remains confident 
about the current year and beyond and still sees 
opportunity for the future in diversifying the 
business, both geographically and by discipline, 
primarily through organic growth and where 
appropriate selective acquisitions. 
DiviDenDs 
The Board proposes a final dividend of 
4.0 pence per share (2008: 4.0 pence) giving 
a total dividend for the year of 6.0 pence per share 
(2008: 6.0 pence), maintaining the levels of the 
previous year. This reflects the confidence the 
Board has in the Group's financial position and 
their view that the Group remains well placed 
to continue to develop and grow. The final 
dividend, pending approval, will be paid on 
28 May 2010 to shareholders on the register 
at 7 May 2010.
people 
Our staff have yet again continued 
to apply themselves with energy and 
passion and I am impressed with everyone's 
spirit and enthusiasm. We continue to be 
encouraged by the performance of the Group 
and the dedication and capability of its 
employees at all levels and the strong team 
culture that prevails both across the Group 
and with our valued customers. These are 
very important strengths as we engage 
together in large infrastructure projects 
and maintenance programmes.
It is a privilege on behalf of the Board to 
thank all our valued staff, contractors and 
customers for their continued support. With 
their loyalty and commitment we have yet again 
out-performed many of our competitors and 
maintained our leading edge. Well done also 
to those who have received their 10 year and 
20 year service awards who join many of their 
long-term colleagues in this achievement. 
This is something that we are very proud of, 
demonstrating our record of retaining key 
talent and providing real long-term career 
progression and opportunity. 
outlooK
We believe that general economic conditions 
will remain very challenging and anticipate 
further tightening of major companies' spend 
and further reductions in Government-funded 
budgets. In addition to this there is the 
impending General Election which adds 
to the economic uncertainty. 
However, the Board remains confident 
about the long-term future, particularly in 
relation to high demands for skilled engineers 
within the forthcoming nuclear new build and 
decommissioning activity which we are in 
a prime position to support.
Our business model is strong and has seen 
us through many economic cycles. We have 
excellent visibility of earnings, driven by the 
requirements of major key UK infrastructure, 
wider European and International opportunity 
and a strong order book, coupled with a robust 
balance sheet.
As in previous economic downturns whilst we 
have reduced headcounts, we have maintained 
our market presence and continued to make 
selective new investments. These decisions 
enable us to build market share and enhance 
the resilience of the Group so that we are able 
to benefit when economic conditions improve. 
The current economic climate is challenging 
and whilst its upturn is hard to foresee we will 
once again aim to maintain, develop and grow 
our market presence while managing our cost 
base to maximise future opportunies. 
GeRRy Mason
non- executive chaiRMan 
26 MaRCH 2010
the board remains confident 
about the long-term future, 
particularly in relation to high 
demands for skilled engineers 
within the forthcoming nuclear 
new build and decommissioning 
activity which we are in a prime 
position to support.
our business model is strong 
and has seen us through many 
economic cycles. We have 
excellent visibility of earnings, 
driven by the requirements of 
major key uK infrastructure, 
wider european and international 
opportunity and a strong order 
book, coupled with a robust 
balance sheet. 
_1_MRN_ar09_FRONT.indd   5 07/04/2010   09:20:13