 Morson Group PLC  Annual Report 2011
8
www.morson.com
Gerry Mason
Non-Executive Chairman
The Board's view is 
that the current year 
will again be 
challenging. We 
expect our core 
markets to remain 
solid but margin 
pressures to continue. 
Chairman's statement
Introduction
In a challenging year, it is pleasing to be able to 
report further growth in revenues and Net Fee 
Income (NFI ), albeit there has been considerable 
pressure on operating margins and hence profits at a 
lower level. Compared with 2010, revenue exceeded 
 0.5 billion, increasing by 11.0% to  507.9 million 
and NFI increased 10.9% to  38.9 million. Adjusted 
profit before tax
+
 decreased by 12.4% to  7.1 million, 
reflecting continued pricing pressure, ongoing 
investments in new areas and a reduced contribution 
from Morson Projects, our engineering consultancy 
division. Profit before tax decreased by 38.9%  
to  5.7 million.
At an operational level, our core markets have held up 
well, particularly in Aerospace, Marine and Defence. 
All material contracts which were up for renewal 
during the year were won and the Group continued 
to grow the numbers of contractors placed and to 
expand our offering both in the UK and overseas.
The year 2011 has been one in which much of the 
business community has experienced continuing 
challenges with financial constraint and economic 
uncertainty and we have seen this impact business 
confidence, strategy, investment and performance 
in some areas of our client base. As a leading 
provider of talent and services, across sectors, to 
many of the UK's largest engineering businesses the 
Group is in a strong position but this inevitably 
impacted our performance with some areas of our 
business being affected more than others.
Morson has had to be cognizant of the impact of 
the trading environment in each of our areas of 
activity and has planned and managed the business 
in 2011 to deal with market conditions. During the 
year, we concentrated on delivering increased 
market share whilst investing in niche areas that 
should deliver returns in the future.
The Group has also faced notable challenges during 
the year and addressed a need for change and 
investment within our engineering consultancy 
division Morson Projects, including welcoming  
a new Managing Director and Finance Director.  
This is  a key aspect of developing the Group's 
future relationships and capabilities.
The Group balance sheet remains strong. The 
increased levels of revenues and expansion into  
new markets have increased the working capital 
requirements of the business during the year.  
This and the  4.0 million acquisition of the non-
controlling minority stake in Morson Wynnwith 
have contributed to increased net debt levels to 
 33.3 million (2010:  23.2 million) at 31 December 
2011. This level remains well within facility limits.
Results
Key financial and business highlights include:
Financial Highlights
Solid trading performance in a competitive market 
place aided by the breadth of our offering:
 > Group revenues exceed  0.5 billion, up 11.0%  
to  507.9 million (2010:  457.6 million)
 > Group net fee income (gross profit) up 10.9%  
to  38.9 million (2010:  35.1 million)
 > Adjusted profit before tax* down 12.4% to  7.1 
million (2010:  8.1 million)
 > Profit before tax down 38.9% to  5.7 million 
(2010:  9.4 million)
 > Adjusted basic earnings per share* down 12.7% 
to 12.27 pence (2010: 14.06 pence)
 > Basic earnings per share down 36.2% to 10.01 
pence (2010: 15.69 pence)
 > Net debt at year end up 43.7% to  33.3 million 
(2010:  23.2 million)
Business Highlights
 > Average contractor numbers engaged up 700 
to 10,900 
 > Strength in core markets
 > Excellent client retention rate + See derivation in table on 
page 18. 9
Delivering skills - Applying expertise
Business Review
Morson Group PLC  Annual Report 2011
 > Continued expansion and investment for the 
future:
 > Aberdeen recruitment office and Bristol design 
centre opened
 > Growing niche areas of IT, Oil & Gas and 
Telecommunications 
*  Before amortisation of  866,000 (2010:  620,000), 
exceptional gain on acquisition of businesses  nil (2010: 
 1,249,000), exceptional restructuring costs  110,000  
(2010:  404,000) and fair value loss regarding the derivative 
financial instruments  391,000 (2010: gain  1,063,000).
Strategy
The markets in which we operate are competitive. 
We differentiate our service on the basis of quality, 
excelling at what we do and providing efficient, 
cost saving solutions for our clients. We are not 
complacent and constantly innovate and develop our 
services to retain these long standing relationships.
Within recruitment many of our sectors are mature 
and with high volumes generate low margin returns, 
but run efficiently. The Group has sought to maintain 
these core strengths and position Morson for organic 
growth as market conditions improve. This has 
included ongoing investment in our business systems, 
operations and sales development teams.
Contemporaneously the Group has also invested in 
chosen developing markets that offer increased 
opportunities for return and growth. This includes 
activity with clients in overseas locations both 
through subsidiary operations and via our 
established UK offices. It has also included seeking 
to increase our permanent recruitment activity and 
whilst this area has developed at a slower pace than 
anticipated, in 2012 we will refocus resource to niche 
skillsets where we feel demand is higher. Whilst 
these developing initiatives will require investment in 
terms of cost and working capital the Board believe 
they will form an increasingly important part of 
Group activities in the years to come.
Whilst 201 1 was a difficult year for Morson Projects, in 
recent years it has delivered good revenues and grown 
our capability and skillsets across several exciting 
emerging engineering markets. It is also, of course, an 
internal Group client for our recruitment activity. We 
have high quality clients, both in the UK and overseas, 
involved in cutting-edge, innovative engineering 
projects and have a wealth of design skills to call on. 
We wish to increase the returns we achieve on this 
business and have initiated review, change and internal 
goals and aspirations to achieve this.
Employees
Our staff continue to work hard and display great 
loyalty and commitment to what we do at Morson. 
As we enter our 43rd year in business and see many 
staff with 10 and 20 years of service, and even 
second generations joining us, it is a great testament 
to them and the business culture and environment in 
which we all work. I am pleased on behalf of the 
Board to pass on our appreciation and sincere 
gratitude to them all.
Dividend
In December 201 1 the Board took the decision that a 
final dividend for the year ended 31 December 201 1 
would not be proposed. As we set out at that time, 
investments in the business and maintenance of core 
business and client relationships is key and we are 
mindful of the need to manage cash resources 
appropriately. As we have previously announced, the 
Board will not be reviewing its decision to suspend 
dividend payments until the time of the publication of 
the interim 2012 results which is expected to be in 
September 2012. However, shareholders should be 
aware that, for the reasons we have set out, there can 
be no guarantee that any dividend will be paid in 
respect of the current financial year.
Outlook
The Board firmly believes that engineering talent will 
be in demand in the global economy in the years to 
come and that the UK has a role to play in that 
market. Our highly qualified engineers, designers 
and technical staff are respected throughout the 
world market and Morson intends to play a pivotal 
role in supplying this talent, expanding our footprint 
overseas and constantly improving our delivery and 
expertise. Clearly as we have several large key 
contract renewals and extensions that fall due in 
2012 this will also be a major focus.
We expect our core markets to remain solid in the 
coming year. Aerospace, particularly on the civil 
side, is performing well and remains the largest 
business sector for us. Rail has recently seen 
government support for further future rail 
improvement programmes. We expect nuclear 
power to become a key contributor to the UK's 
energy needs and that there will be an increasing 
resource requirement in the near future entailing, 
not just new nuclear stations but also the site 
support facility, control environment and the 
upgrading work needed on the UK power 
transmission grid and infrastructure.
Importantly, all of Morson's core areas have 
underlying maintenance requirements that have a 
very long term future engineering need. Coupled 
with this, our investments into new areas and 
improving our returns on design consultancy should 
enhance our performance.
Your Board's view is that the current year will again 
be a challenging one. We will plan for the longer 
term growth and development of Morson to 
maintain our reputation, standards and market 
share and to continue to deliver expert and flexible 
solutions and services to our clients.
Gerry Mason
Non-Executive Chairman
29 March 2012