 Motivcom Annual Report & Accounts 2006 6
Chairman's Statement
Colin Lloyd
Trading Results
I am pleased to report to shareholders that the
Group has made excellent progress in 2006 and
achieved record results. Group operating profit for
the year ended 31 December 2006 grew by 34%
to  2,660,000 (2005:  1,992,000) ahead of
market expectations on a gross profit up by 29%
to  14,026,000 (2005:  10,900,000). Profit before
tax increased by 34% to  2,704,000 (2005:
 2,025,000) in line with market expectations and
basic earnings per share increased by 36% to
7.57 pence (2005: 5.57 pence). These results
reflect a combination of organic growth, led by our
strategy of ongoing new product development,
and the acquisition of Summersault
Communications Limited and The Voucher Shop.
As I have set out in my previous statements, the
Group uses gross profit as a better measure of
performance than sales, which contain client pass
through costs and fluctuate depending on our
clients' requirements for the financial management
of their programmes. Group sales were
 76,752,000, an increase of 65% (2005:
 46,385,000). 38% of this increase,  17,784,000,
was contributed by the acquisition of The Voucher
Shop, which provides its clients with high street
vouchers for incentive and flexible employee
benefit programmes.
In view of this performance and the cash
generative nature of the Group's business the
Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of
0.90 pence, making a total dividend for the year of
1.25 pence per share (2005: Final maiden
dividend of 0.75 pence). Subject to shareholder
approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final
dividend will be paid on 23 May 2007 to
shareholders on the register at close of business
on 30 March 2007.
As a result of Group performance the Group's
balance sheet has strengthened and equity
increased by 30% to  7,828,000 (2005:
 6,027,000).
The results for 2006 demonstrate a very pleasing
35% compound annual growth rate in operating
profit in the 4 years between 2003 and 2006.
Group Operations
My 2005 report to shareholders set out our
decision to structure the Group into three
operating divisions headed by John Sylvester,
Nigel Cooper and David Lebond. The three
divisions are:
- Motivation and Incentives
- Incentive Travel and Live Events
- Sales Promotion and Employee Benefits.
This structure has now been operating for the last
12 months delivering excellent results and greater
efficiency and accountability for our clients and the
Group. It is our intention to continue to build each
of the divisions through new products and
services and appropriate acquisitions. I am
therefore pleased to give shareholders a review of
the operations of our three divisions.
Above: Hazel Ormonde is
one of the team responsible for
taking care of participant queries. Motivcom Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 Chairman's Statement
Motivation and Incentives
The Motivation and Incentives division has
continued to build on its sound client base of blue
chip clients who have recognised the need to seek
new and innovative ways to motivate their
employees. The division's growing expertise in the
call centre market led to a number of important
new client gains during 2006 and the quality of the
work was again recognised by the industry
through another series of award wins.
In mid 2006 the division launched Spree , the
first prepaid reward debit card to operate in the
UK using the Visa prepaid platform. This
development has been a great success with many
thousands of cards issued and seven new client
card programmes due to launch early in Q2 2007.
A recent market report has forecast that the
European pre-paid card market will be valued at
 75bn by 2010. The development of this
capability has highlighted a number of new market
areas, which are expected to provide excellent
future opportunities.
The Voucher Shop, which was acquired in
February 2006, has now been integrated fully into
the division. It has provided a sustainable base of
over 250 new high quality customers from which
cross-selling opportunities have already been
developed and further synergies have and
continue to be realised. This acquisition made an
excellent operating profit contribution of  342,000
in 2006 and has won a number of new clients
throughout the year, which will deliver further
growth in 2007.
Incentive Travel and Live Events
P&MM achieved a successful year in a mature
market, with gross profit increasing by more than
10%. The division operated over 300 incentive
travel programmes and live events from one day
gala dinners and conferences through to three
month product launches and global adventures.
The division was also successful in winning many
new clients and consolidating its market leading
position. The majority of these events require
implementation throughout the world to highly
exacting client standards delivering important
creative brand experiences to their audiences. It is
pleasing therefore that the division's programmes
are constantly recognised in industry awards and
in the last 12 months the P&MM brand has won
more awards than any of its competitors.
Archer Young Limited, acquired in 2004, has
continued to perform well and exceeded our
internal targets. It is now a stable and vibrant
creative agency in this market and in 2006
received significant recognition at both the
Motivation Awards and International Travel &
Meeting Awards for operating the Most
Successful Programme  and Best Integrated
Solution .
Sales Promotion and Employee Benefits
Summersault
Summersault Communications Limited, the
Group's employee communications and publishing
subsidiary acquired in January 2006, continues to
be recognised by the communications industry
winning a record number of awards in the year
and gaining many new accounts. It enters the
current year with a healthy new business pipeline.
It has been integrated fully into the Group and
excellent cross-client referencing opportunities are
in prospect.
Fotorama
2006 saw Fotorama firmly reinforce itself to be
once again a leading player in the fixed fee
promotions market with a record year with more
promotions across more clients than ever before.
The World Cup was an event the division targeted
as a source for new business opportunities. As a
result the World Cup has created many new client
relationships, which are repeating in 2007,
together with two more major events in 2007  
the Cricket and Rugby World Cups   creating a
similar climate for client development.
Travel & Leisure Promotions
Entice , the Group's Loyalty and Affinity product,
was launched during the year, with three major
new clients. This retention and acquisition product
enters 2007 with 1,500,000 consumers on the
scheme. The Group expects this to grow many
fold.
Source-e  was launched during the year. This
initiative formalises the Group's worldwide
sourcing capability and allows us to move into the
substantial business gifts and merchandise
market.
Cinema promotions continue to grow at a pace
with the Group securing exclusive relationships
with four of the top five UK cinema chains Motivcom Annual Report & Accounts 2006 8
Chairman's Statement
continued
operating over twenty cinema related promotions
during the year. The Group is the UK's largest
provider of cinema related promotions with
ambitious plans to enhance its offering and
presence in the future.
The division's new product pipeline creates an
excellent foundation for the current and future
years.
HR Benefits
Our core brand Lifestyle  continues to set the
industry standard for Voluntary Benefits and saw
further development during 2006. For example, it
is the first product of its type to be fully compliant
with the new Disability Discrimination Act. The
product continues to attract many new clients
from the public and private sectors. It is
particularly pleasing that client retention remains
strong at 96% with many clients extending their
product suite purchase in 2007. Five Major
Industry Awards were won in 2006 for our
programmes. The division has successfully
launched a unique Childcare Voucher Service
Childcare-Plus  and rapidly gained listings with
many public and private sector employers. Over
800,000 employees throughout the UK now enjoy
the benefits of the Group's award winning Lifestyle
programme which is now the preferred choice for
many other major Employee Benefit consultancies
including Watson Wyatt, Gissings, Personal Group
and Vebnet. Further new partners are expected to
come on board during 2007.
Acquisitions
We continue to seek good quality earnings
enhancing acquisitions.
Summary
Your Group has achieved much in 2006 with
acquisitions integrated, new clients and awards
won across all divisions, many new products
successfully launched and relationships
established across the world. Our strategy of
consolidating and innovating, in what I have
branded the B2E market (business to employee),
has made excellent progress. By way of
endorsement of this market sector we were
quoted recently by one of the leading financial
publications as the only pure-play B2E quoted
company . Our multi-billion sector is now gaining
recognition in a wider community. We look forward
to continuing progress for the Group in 2007.
Early indications show good visibility of forward
contracts and the Group exceeding its internal
gross profit forecasts.
Finally, on behalf of my fellow directors, I would like
to thank our employees for their contribution to
the Group's continuing success.
Colin Lloyd
Chairman
21 March 2007