 I am pleased to announce the results for the
year ended 31 December 2007.
Business Environment
The UK independent television production
sector grew by an estimated 9.4% in 2007,
with revenues up by  184m, giving a total
market size of  2.14 billion. With greater
numbers of channels increasing the level of
internal competition, broadcasters are
continuing to allocate significant budgets to
original productions. There is no sign yet of a
downturn in overall headline expenditure for
commercial broadcasters, with ITV increasing
spend on independent productions last year by
 45m to  285m, whilst Channel 4 increased
spend by  2m to  325m. The BBC increased
its spending on independent productions last
year by  94m to  436m.
I have in the past noted the   exuberant'' prices
paid by some consolidators in our sector, and
our reluctance to join in the process. From
Motive's perspective, one of the few benefits of
the current   credit crunch'' is that, over the last
quarter, public market valuations for
independent production companies have fallen.
Whilst our share price is of course not immune
from this process, we are now finding that our
valuations of private market companies (our
main targets) are now more in line with sellers'
expectations.
Business Review and Principal Activities
The Group is now well-positioned to take
advantage of growing global demand for
content and to participate in the continuing
consolidation of the independent television
production sector.
Despite the high price expectations for
independent production companies since
Motive's last annual report we have increased
the number of television production companies
controlled by the group from two to five.
In the year under review, on 22 June 2007 we
acquired a 50% interest in Luminous
Productions Limited. Luminous is a new
independent television production company
that will target the UK entertainment market.
Luminous is led by Cillian de Buitle  ar whose
expertise is in the creation and production of
entertainment and chat shows.
Motive also announced on 21 August 2007 the
acquisition of a 50.6% interest in Manchester-
based Scarlet Television Ltd for a purchase
consideration of  15,000, plus transaction
costs. Led by award-winning producer Paula
Trafford, Scarlet was established three years
ago and has already produced many highly
regarded programmes for a wide range of UK
broadcasters.
Post year end, on 6 March 2008, we acquired
a 50% interest in Rumble TV Ltd, a new
independent television production company
that will target the UK factual entertainment
market. Rumble TV is led by Visual Voodoo's
former head of programmes, Tony Moss, and
his deputy Ben Devlin.
In making these investments we have identified
individuals who are capable of developing
businesses which can achieve significant levels
of growth and profitability whilst contributing to
the Group as a whole.
Detailed operational review
A notable highlight was on 22 August 2007,
when three of the expanded Group's
programmes were broadcast on the same
night: Little Miss Jocelyn (BBC2), Diana's Last
Summer (ITV 1) and What's Eating Victoria
Beckham (five life).
The Group's Irish acquisition, Motive Television
Ltd, based in Dublin, was in production on four
programmes during the year (The Opening
Hour; No Place Like Home; The Ernst & Young
GOAL Challenge, all for RTE
 
, and Part of What
We Are for Setanta Sports). Two new pilot
programmes are currently being considered by
RTE
 
: The Byrne Ultimatum, starring Jason
Byrne; and Summer in the Sun. We are
optimistic about prospects for the company.
Motive's first acquisition in the UK, Brown Eyed
Boy, traded profitably during the period. It
completed production on series 2 of its
comedy series for BBC 2, Little Miss Jocelyn,
starring Jocelyn Jee Esien. The first series was
nominated for a Bafta and was repeated in
August 2007 on BBC2. Three new pilot-stage
comedy programmes were produced for
broadcasters during the period: Dan Clark's
motive television plc annual report and accounts 2007 1
Chairman's statement How Not To Live Your Life; and Splitting Cells,
(both for BBC3); and Meet the Bandais, for
Channel 4. How Not To Live Your Life has now
been commissioned by BBC3 as a 6-part
series. In addition, since the year end, U.S.
broadcaster CBS has commissioned a pilot
script for an American version of the series.
Luminous Productions was engaged in early
development of a large number of programme
ideas and did not, as was budgeted, make a
contribution during 2007. Managing Director
Cillian de Buitle  ar intends to develop these
programme ideas in 2008. Luminous is
currently co-producing (with Motive Television
Ltd in Dublin) a pilot for a new family
entertainment show, The Byrne Ultimatum.
Scarlet Television signed up actor Richard E
Grant to present a number of new programmes
for ITV3. The first two documentaries, Roald
Dahl's Revolting Rule Book and Elementary My
Dear Viewer: The Sherlock Holmes Story were
broadcast during the year. ITV also
commissioned a major, undisclosed
documentary, and the Crime and Investigation
Network commissioned a factual series, Making
a Monster, in which forensic psychologist Kerry
Daynes investigates the world's most notorious
serial killers. Towards the end of the year SKY
Broadcasting commissioned three primetime
programmes including: 50 Greatest TV
Endings, presented by entertainment doyenne
Cilla Black, and 50 Ways To Leave Your TV
Lover, fronted by This Morning's Fern Britton.
Both programmes feature a gallery of stars
from some of our best loved TV shows
including, John Simm (Life on Mars), Chris
Tarrant (Tiswas), Faye Ripley (Cold Feet), John
Thomson (Cold Feet, The Fast Show), Tony
Blackburn (Top of the Pops), John Mahoney
(Frasier) and Shelley Morrison (Will and Grace).
Britney: Speared by the Paps was
commissioned as a fast turnaround film by
SKY's Director of Programmes, Richard Woolfe.
Presented by Heat magazine's TV Editor, Boyd
Hilton, this one hour documentary looks at the
unique relationship between Britney and the
paparazzi who follow her 24/7.
It is anticipated that all three programmes will
air on peak time on SKY One.
Financial Highlights
With the addition of Scarlet Television, and with
excellent organic growth at Brown Eyed Boy
Ltd, our group turnover for the year increased
by 136% to  3,135,363. Gross profit increased
by 112% to  751,393. The bottom line loss
reflects both un-recovered headquarters
overhead and investment in development of
new programmes by group companies, (which,
rather than capitalizing, we write off as it is
expended) and the costs incurred by Luminous
Productions and Scarlet Television in their initial
development phases. Cash at bank and in
hand at the year end was  1,073,237.
Key Performance Indicators
* We aim to increase sales year on year.
Groups sales have increased by 136%.
We aim to achieve gross profit margins of
22% on productions. During 2007 our
production companies achieved average
gross margins of 24%.
*
Each company should make a
contribution to group overhead. During
the year only Brown Eyed Boy and Motive
Dublin made such a contribution.
Luminous Productions incurred a pre-tax
loss during its initial start up phase whilst
Scarlet incurred a small loss during the
first few months of ownership during
which a restructuring exercise was
implemented.
*
Corporate overheads should not markedly
increase year-on-year as we operate with
a   flat'' management structure.
* We aim to retain all rights in programmes
in the UK and exploit programme rights
internationally. This was achieved in 2007.
* Awards bring notice and acclaim and
improve the reputation of the group.
During the year we won an Irish Film and
Television Award (  Ifta'') for our sports
documentary about the life of Irish Gaelic
games commentator Michea  l O
 
Muircheartaigh,   The Sound of Sunday''.
Gary Reich, Managing Director of Brown
Eyed Boy, and Jocelyn Jee Esien were
nominated for a British Academy of Film
2 motive television plc annual report and accounts 2007
Chairman's statement and Television Award (  Bafta'') in the
category of Best Comedy Programme for
Little Miss Jocelyn.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
*
The Group needs to ensure
commissioning of new programmes.
Creative teams are constantly developing
new programme ideas to ensure a healthy
pipeline of new productions.
*
Staff are key to the Group's long term
well-being. All senior staff are rewarded
with share options and when acquiring
companies the Group ensures that key
personnel are tied in through long-term
service agreements, share ownership and
performance-based rewards.
*
Existing series may be cancelled through
changes in commissioners; creative
executives meet frequently with a wide
range of commissioners in order to
mitigate this.
* A severe downturn in television
advertising revenue could negatively
impact on the Group. BBC commissions
would be unaffected, however, and the
Group seeks to ensure that the BBC is a
key customer.
Corporate Strategy
We will continue to try to identify and complete
a transformative transaction in the UK
independent television production sector. We
will also seek strategic stakes in small and
medium-sized television production and
distribution companies, whilst at the same time
attempting to establish start-up companies with
successful television producers. These
production companies now retain the
intellectual property rights in their content,
which can be exploited across multiple
platforms and multiple territories. It is expected
that programme libraries will generate cash
flows for longer periods and that the   long-tail''
effect will increasingly apply to television
content, enhancing long-term value.
The Board is unwilling to over-pay for
acquisitions but regularly reviews the market
and the Group's strategy and has adjusted the
strategy as set out above in view of the over-
pricing of businesses in the sector until the
end of 2007. Valuations have now fallen to
acceptable levels and we are much better
placed in the coming year to identify and
acquire businesses that are reasonably priced.
Management believes that consolidation in the
sector will continue and that Motive is still well-
placed to take advantage of any attractive
opportunities for value creation that may arise.
Outlook
With the post-balance sheet acquisition of a
50% stake in Rumble TV Productions Ltd,
Motive Television is now a growing group of
five television production companies, led by
talented and ambitious producers.
Motive is now well-positioned to expand and
has:
* five operating subsidiaries
* expertise in comedy, factual, factual
entertainment, multi-cultural, sports and
entertainment shows
* representation in three main production
centres, Dublin, Manchester and London
* an active and broad customer base that
has expanded to include all the major UK
and Irish broadcasters as well as
overseas broadcasters.
The board believes that 2007 was a turning
point for the group and that your company is
now better-placed than ever to grow and to
deliver its strategy.
M J Pilsworth
Chairman
2 April 2008
motive television plc annual report and accounts 2007 3
Chairman's statement