 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
Mouchel Group plc 04
Chairman's Statement
Chairman' s  
Statement
In 2007/08 we have further strengthened  
our position in the consulting and business 
services sector. Mouchel is increasingly  
seen as one of the UK's leading providers  
of professional services to the public sector 
and to industries regulated by government. 
Over the last few years we've enjoyed strong performance and steady 
financial growth in our core markets. In the last 12 months this has 
continued. But we have also taken steps during this period to diversify 
our activities, acquiring businesses that move us into related markets  
of business process outsourcing (BPO) and service transformation. 
The expanded Mouchel business is still positioned in public service 
markets that are relatively inelastic in the face of a general economic 
slowdown; working for clients who, we believe, will increasingly look  
to the private sector to help strengthen service efficiency and improve 
value for money for their end-users. We expect to maintain the growth 
rates we have achieved in the recent past and we believe our business 
model remains robust.
Performance
Revenue in 2007/08 reached a record level of  656.7 million  
and underlying operating profit increased by 27% to  41.7 million.  
Adjusted earnings per share was up by 22% to 25.7p. Operating 
margins fell, as expected, to 6.4% following the acquisition of HBS;  
but we are confident that, following the successful integration of that 
business into the Group, margins will resume their upward trend 
towards our 8% medium-term target.
At the end of July 2008, our forward order book and bidding pipeline 
stood at  2.1 billion and  2.2 billion respectively. At more than three 
times our 2007/08 revenue, this level of orders highlights the visibility  
of our future earnings, which provides great comfort to staff and 
shareholders alike, particularly in the current general economic climate. 
Strategy
Our investment in building a wider range of service offers, directed 
predominantly at the UK public sector and public service industries, 
has proved to be effective. Organisations in these sectors, faced by 
tighter budgetary constraints and under pressure to improve service 
efficiency, are turning to companies like Mouchel in still greater 
numbers. Our investment in highway technology skills places  
us at the heart of the debate on managing movement. 
Richard Benton
Chairman 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
Mouchel Group plc 05
Chairman's Statement
Our strengths in water and environment are valuable at a time when  
the water industry has published plans for higher levels of spending. 
Local authorities are continuing to outsource non-core services and  
the extension of our presence into the BPO realm has been timely.  
Our broadened management consulting offer opens new markets  
for Mouchel in central government, health and education and the  
reach of this business into many of our existing markets is also  
proving important. 
Investment in our operations in the Gulf - where revenues have grown 
by over 100% this year - gives us a new dimension to our consulting 
business and is beginning to present some important new opportunities 
in the longer-term, managed services arena. The Gulf economy  
remains strong and investment levels remain high, particularly in Dubai 
and Abu Dhabi.
Business environment
At a time when economic downturn is becoming a reality and the 
attention of the world is increasingly drawn to matters of sustainability 
and global warming, Mouchel is particularly well placed to offer more 
effective management and delivery of those services that form the fabric 
of modern society - transport, water and energy, local services, flood 
defence, health and education. 
The government continues to invest heavily in many of these areas. 
Spending in education and health remains high. The increasing use of 
technology to manage movement on our roads and railways presents 
continuing opportunity for us. As the climate changes, flooding has 
become a more regular occurrence so that investment in flood 
protection schemes will become an important area of investment  
for local authorities and the Environment Agency. 
The public has come to expect much more from local services provided 
by their councils and utility companies, and in a digital age the means  
of delivering those services has begun to change. Mouchel's investment 
in the skills that can facilitate that sort of evolution is especially important 
and underpins our acquisition strategy during the past year.
Organic growth, alliances and acquisitions
Over the last five years we have achieved growth in the range of 20%  
to 25% per annum and this remains our target for the next five years. 
We expect organic growth to account for between 10% and 15% per 
annum, as a result of the further development of existing partnerships, 
new contract wins, inflation, and increasing market share across a 
broader range of services. Acquisitions will continue to account for  
the balance.
Current year and prior year acquisitions contributed  147 million to 
revenues in 2007/08. In August 2007 we acquired the BPO specialists 
HBS Business Services Group Limited (HBS). This move was intended 
to achieve lateral growth in the business, extending our services into 
many of the back-office processes that local authorities need to 
provide, not only for the community but also for their own employees.
Our second acquisition in 2007/08 was that of Hedra plc, a specialist 
management consulting business that operates exclusively in the public 
sector market. Hedra provided Mouchel with the chance to achieve 
rapid vertical integration in many of our existing markets, and access  
to new markets in which we had no prior position. In addition, Hedra 
offered a good fit with our existing management consulting and project 
management business and the combined new business now presents 
a very substantial force in its markets. 
The successful integration of both of these businesses is complete  
and we have realised total savings in annualised operating costs of 
around  4 million.
Brand
In December 2007 we gained the permission of the shareholders  
to rename the business as Mouchel Group plc, a change which  
allowed us to retain some of the history and heritage of the firm but to 
modernise our identity and clarify our positioning. The Mouchel brand 
now envelopes all of our activities, including those carried out by the 
former HBS and Hedra companies acquired during the year.
People
Our people have done a superb job for the business this year and we 
are proud of what we have achieved together. It is through their hard 
work, commitment, vision and ideas that we have been able to deliver 
these results - something we never lose sight of at the higher levels of 
the organisation.
In return, what we have been able to offer to our people are improvements 
in the working environment at our offices and sites, benefits packages 
that match the very best in our sector, and opportunities that will fulfil their 
own aspirations for challenge, enjoyment and security. Our success and 
our growing size and scale mean that we can attract really talented people 
to work for Mouchel; this is of crucial importance to the continuing 
development and prosperity of the Group. 
Mouchel employed 11,341 people at 31 July 2008, some 39% more 
than a year before. 
We were delighted, this year, to have gained a place in the Sunday 
Times  Best Big Companies to Work For' league table. We believe  
this reflects the commitment we have made to our people but we are 
also using the feedback provided by this exercise to further improve  
the level of staff engagement across the Group.
Outlook
For some years now, clients in all of our markets have been looking 
to place contracts which offer more work to fewer suppliers for longer 
periods of time. With the advent of tougher economic and trading 
conditions in the UK, we expect this trend to gather pace. Our strategy, 
to focus principally on the UK public sector, has served us well and has 
positioned Mouchel well to withstand the impact of these conditions. 
The diversification that we have achieved this year through the 
acquisition of HBS and Hedra strengthens our position still further. 
Our resilience is also supported by the fact that most of our activities 
are connected with asset management and the maintenance of 
essential infrastructure and services, rather than investment in building 
new facilities and capital expenditure. We are operating in markets that 
generally still present us with opportunities. Our order book is close  
to its all-time high and provides excellent visibility of future earnings.
Looking to the future, many of our clients will continue to face challenges, 
including efficiency improvements, service level enhancements, effects  
of climate change and budget cuts. As a business we are well equipped 
with the professional knowledge and expertise needed to help them 
meet these challenges; our talent pool improves daily. As such we 
continue to remain confident in our future prospects. 
Richard Benton
Chairman