 6
OVERALL RESULTS
I am pleased to report a record result for a
second consecutive year. Profit for the year rose
to US$46,630,000, compared with US$26,102,000
in 2006. Earnings per share (continuing and discontinued
operations) increased to 82.32 cents from 49.75 cents.
The increase was largely attributable to the robust
palm-oil price, to the increase in value of the biological
assets in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS ), to exceptional gains
related to property disposals and to increases in
associated-company profits.
The plantation associates benefited from the high palm-
oil prices. With regard to the other associates there was
a significant non-recurring gain from the sale of some
sizeable parcels of land owned by the 40%-held
Bertam Properties Sdn. Berhad (Bertam Properties ),
and a sharply-improved result by the 29.64%-held
The North Australian Pastoral Company Pty. Limited
(NAPCo ). Offsetting these gains were a decline in
the Group's f.f.b. crop, a small loss recorded on the
Group's Australian property, Woodlands, and net
exchange losses arising primarily in Indonesia where
the Rupiah has weakened against the US Dollar.
The accounts have, this year, been drawn up in a
different way from previous years, with the comparative
figures for 2006 re-stated accordingly. As explained in
more detail on pages 8 and 9, IFRS has been adopted
and, in addition, the accounts are now presented
in US Dollars, the currency in which the majority
of the Group's earnings and a significant proportion
of costs are denominated.
DIVIDEND
The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend
of 5.00p per share, which, together with the interim
dividend of 2.00p paid in November 2007, makes 7.00p
for the year, compared with 6.50p in respect of 2006.
The dividend will continue to be paid in Sterling.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
It remains the board's target to achieve a total area
under oil palms in Indonesia of some 70,000 hectares
and to continue to add value to, and expand, the
Australian beef-cattle portfolio. In order to fund these
expansionary objectives, the Group will continue to
raise cash by disposing of its remaining Malaysian
plantation and property investments, as well as by
securing additional bank finance.
In Indonesia, the Group now owns some 10,000
hectares of mature oil-palm plantations, together with
a minority holding in 25,000 hectares - equivalent to
8,000 hectares - in Sumatra. In addition, a land bank of
12,000 hectares on Bangka Island and 24,000 hectares in
East Kalimantan has been secured. Of this new land, over
2,000 hectares on Bangka and over 2,500 hectares in
East Kalimantan have been planted to date. Some delays
in the planting programme have been experienced
either for weather-related reasons or, in the case of
Bangka, as a result of protracted negotiations relating
to smallholder land-compensation issues. The Group's
aim is to clear and plant, in an environmentally and
socially responsible manner, the balance of the land
bank as quickly as possible. The aim is also to acquire
additional land of 15,000 - 20,000 hectares, preferably
also in East Kalimantan, thereby achieving the target of
70,000 hectares and ultimately enabling some 400,000
tonnes of crude palm oil per annum to be produced.
In Australia, the Group's acquisition of Springmount,
a 7,581-hectare beef-cattle and arable property,
for a total of A$9.30 million (US$8.16 million) was
completed in March 2007. Springmount adjoins the
Group's existing properties, known as the Woodlands
aggregation. The addition of Springmount has increased
the size of the aggregation to 31,000 hectares and has
enabled further economies of scale to be achieved
both in the fattening of cattle and in the cultivation
of grain crops for commercial sale. Greater emphasis
than hitherto is being placed on the latter option in
Chairman 's
statement
A record result for
a second consecutive year.
The increase was largely
attributable to the robust
palm-oil price, to the increase
in value of the biological
assets, to exceptional gains
related to property disposals
and to increases in associated-
company profits. 7
ANNUAL REPORT 2007
view of the current high world price for grain - up to
8,000 hectares can be utilised for grain production. I am
pleased to report not only a sharp increase in the Group's
share of NAPCo's post-tax earnings, to US$2.84 million
from last year's loss of US$0.41 million, but also a
significant increase in Australian rural property values.
This has impacted favourably on NAPCo's net asset
value which increased to US$15.10 per share from
US$10.47 per share at the end of 2006.
In Malaysia, two important sales were agreed during
the year. First, the balance of Perhentian Tinggi Estate
(745 hectares) was sold for RM66.27 million
(approximately US$21.00 million). Completion has
recently occurred and the whole transaction will therefore
be accounted for in 2008. Second, the sale of Sungei
Kruit Estate (828 hectares) was agreed for a total of
RM72.28 million (approximately US$22.90 million).
Completion is expected to occur in mid-2008 and
should, consequently, be brought into the 2008 accounts.
Thereafter, there will only be two remaining assets of
significant value in the Group's Malaysian portfolio;
the 40% share of Bertam Properties and the remaining
74 hectares of Bertam Estate. The board believes
that these assets command a combined value of
US$55 million and it is planned for these two to be sold
in due course to contribute to the funding of the Group's
continued expansion into Indonesia and Australia.
PALM-OIL ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
The palm-oil industry enjoyed a very successful year
in 2007 with the average Rotterdam cif price increasing
to US$781 per tonne, compared with US$475 in 2006.
Continuing strong demand from the emerging Asian
economies combined with competition for land
use arising out of the increase in the production 
of bio-fuels have resulted in low vegetable-oil stocks
and upward pressure on prices.
The Group's crops of oil palm f.f.b. were lower than
in 2006. This arose from the loss of crop from the
Malaysian estates which had been sold in 2006, from
the damage caused by the unusually severe flooding
on Simpang Kiri Estate in Sumatra at the end of 2006
and from the effects of the labour strike on the estates
in North Sumatra (since settled).
BEEF-CATTLE ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
As has been the case in recent years in Australia,
beef-cattle prices in 2007 were predominantly
influenced by seasonal and currency fluctuations.
Given the volatility of these two factors, the cattle
market fluctuated accordingly but prices ended the
year around the middle of the year's range.
Woodlands benefited from substantially better rainfall
in 2007 than in 2006 and, as a consequence, was able
to grow a wheat crop. This, together with similar cattle-
fattening profits to 2006, resulted in a reduced loss this
year. Good progress was also achieved on the farm's
pasture-development programme, which will enable
considerably more cattle to be grazed in future years.
NAPCo recorded a pleasingly sharp increase in its profit,
resulting from an increase in the value of the company's
herd by some US$10.05 million, which is a product
of higher cattle prices, heavier cattle and the 7.6%
growth of the company's herd to a record 198,000
head. One of the company's growing-out properties
was also profitably disposed of during the year.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Palm-oil prices continued to strengthen into 2008
reaching a high of around US$1,395 per tonne in March
before retreating to the current level of around US$1,200,
which is, nevertheless, somewhat higher than the
year-end level of US$1,000. A progressive export-tax
has been imposed by the Indonesian Government but,
despite this, the fundamentals in the palm-oil market
remain strong, helped by the recent abolition of the
previously high import tax imposed by India.
F.f.b. crops on the majority-owned estates have started
the year strongly and are ahead of the same period
last year and in line with budget. Crops on the
associated-company estates have been ahead of both
the same period last year and budget. It is too early
to make accurate predictions as to the outturn for the
whole year but it is hoped that the full year's crop will
be in excess of that for 2007.
Conditions on Woodlands have continued favourably
following beneficial rainfall and NAPCo's backgrounding
properties, in central Queensland, have been enjoying
a similarly good season. However, NAPCo's breeding
and growing-out properties in the Northern Territory
and more northerly parts of Queensland have been
suffering from a severe drought which means that a
significant number of young cattle will have to be sold
before time. Cattle prices - in particular for grass-fed,
pre-feedlot  cattle, such as are produced by Woodlands
- have continued to be as volatile as in 2007, largely
in response to seasonal fluctuations, whilst the market
for grain-fed cattle - as produced by NAPCo - has on
average traded at historically-high levels.
The board is of the view that, in the light of the ever-
growing global demand for vegetable oils, bio-fuels,
food and protein, the prospects for both the palm-oil
and beef-cattle markets remain favourable and that
2008 will prove to be another excellent year.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
On behalf of the board, I should like to express our
appreciation to the managers, staffs and workforces in
all of the Group's areas of operation for their dedication
and hard work, often in trying circumstances.
Richard Robinow
Chairman
2 May 2008