 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
OVERALL RESULTS
I am delighted to report a record result for a third
consecutive year. The profit for the year increased
to US$53,596,000, from US$46,630,000 in 2007.
Earnings per share (continuing and discontinued
operations) rose to 96.26 cents from 82.32 cents.
The balance sheet remains strong with healthy cash
reserves of US$56 million at the year end. The increased
profit was largely attributable to the substantially stronger
palm-oil price, to higher oil-palm f.f.b. crops, to the
non-recurring sale of two Malaysian plantations and
to the increase in the value of the biological assets.
This was offset by a reduced profit recorded by Bertam
Properties Sdn. Berhad (Bertam Properties ) and a
loss for both Woodlands and the associated company,
The North Australian Pastoral Company Pty. Limited
(NAPCo ), as a result of adverse weather in Australia.
DIVIDEND
The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend
of 5.00p per share which, together with the interim
dividend of 2.00p paid in November 2008, makes 7.00p
for the year - the same as for 2007.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
Indonesia
36,000 hectares of new, environmentally-suitable land
have been secured to date in Indonesia, of which
24,000 are located in East Kalimantan and 12,000 on
Bangka Island. Significant progress has been achieved
on these new projects areas with some 8,500 hectares
in total now planted; 6,000 in East Kalimantan and
2,500 on Bangka of which 1,200 have been planted
so far in 2009. It is hoped that a further 3,500 will
have been planted by the end of the year, thereby
bringing the total to 12,000 hectares. It is planned to
plant a further 6,000 hectares in 2010. Whilst many
other companies are now reining back their rate of
development as a result of cash-flow constraints, the
Group has the financial means to proceed with its
2009 and 2010 programmes, as scheduled. In view of
diminished competition, this now represents a
favourable time to negotiate with contractors for
clearing, planting and building works alike.
Discussions are now in train with a number of
prospective loan providers regarding the longer-term
development programme but it is clear that finance
will not be as readily obtainable as was the case
when the projects commenced. The longer-term
development programme will therefore be governed
by the extent of funding available at that time.
Australia
The board is seeking to continue to expand its beef-
cattle interests in Australia. During the year, a further
4.73% of NAPCo was acquired, increasing the Group's
share to the current level of 34.37%. The cost to date
of the Group's investment in NAPCo is approximately
A$8 per share which compares favourably with the
company's net asset value at the end of 2008 of some
A$17. Active consideration will be given to further
share acquisitions in NAPCo as and when suitable
opportunities present themselves. The board now
believes that this represents a more suitable means
of expansion than via the continued ownership of the
Woodlands aggregation. Considerable value has been
added to this aggregation, comprising four contiguous
properties, over the past few years, particularly in the
form of both pasture and infrastructure development.
The board has taken the view that Woodlands no longer
represents a core asset and that the time is now right to
capitalise upon its value and, as a consequence, the
process of selling the property has recently commenced.
The Woodlands aggregation was valued two years ago
at A$33.50 million.
Malaysia
The sales of the last of the Group's significant-sized
Malaysian estates, Perhentian Tinggi and Sungei Kruit,
were completed in 2008 for a total consideration of
US$43.91 million. Since the start of the divestment
programme in 2005, a total of some US$100 million
has been realised, leaving assets with an estimated
value of some US$50 million still to be sold. The sale
of these assets has funded, and will continue to fund,
the Group's expansion within the oil-palm sector of
Indonesia and the beef-cattle sector of Australia.
PALM-OIL ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
The early part of 2008 saw the palm-oil market climb
to unprecedented heights. In March, an all-time high
of approximately US$1,400 per tonne Rotterdam c.i.f.
was touched. Although this resulted partly from genuine,
fundamental demand for vegetable oils worldwide, most
notably from China and India, it also arose from a
6
Chairman's statement
Another record result
and continuing good
progress on the new
Indonesian projects strong element of speculative buying. The surge in the
price of petroleum, and thereby biofuel, no doubt
added to the buying frenzy, despite the fact that only
a tiny proportion of palm oil (currently around 3%)
is used for biofuel. The very robust prices of both
vegetable and mineral oils could not, however, be
sustained and palm oil eased back during the rest of
the year to some US$525 per tonne by the year end.
Nonetheless, the average price recorded during the
year, of US$941 per tonne, was substantially higher
than the 2007 average of US$781 per tonne and,
indeed, than the 20-year average of US$486 per tonne.
The Group's crops of oil-palm f.f.b. were 11% higher
than in 2007 for its majority-held Indonesian estates
and similar to 2007 for its Indonesian associates.
The welcome recovery resulted both from an increase
in yields from the younger areas and from a general
upturn in the yield cycle. It was also attributable to
the resolution of the workers' strike on three of the
Group's estates which had impacted negatively on
yields in 2007.
BEEF-CATTLE ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
In the very early part of the year, Australian prices for
grass-fed, lighter-weight cattle, such as those produced
by Woodlands, increased markedly following welcome
rainfall in central and southern Queensland. The rainfall
improved the pasture conditions and enabled more cattle
to be run on the property. Seasonal conditions then
deteriorated and prices, in turn, softened accordingly.
Despite the better start to the season and the early
promise of a good wheat crop, the outturn proved to
be disappointing. Costs of fertiliser and transportation
were substantially higher than expected following
the sharp hike in the mineral-oil price. Furthermore,
the wheat crop was adversely affected by rainfall
at the time of harvest which diminished its value.
As a consequence, an increased loss was incurred.
Prices for grain-finished, heavier cattle, such as those
produced by NAPCo, were largely buoyant during the
year, trading around the upper end of the last five years'
range. Prices were, however much lower for younger,
weaner cattle and for cows. In view of the unseasonally
dry conditions on many of the NAPCo properties,
management took swift action and sold some 35,000
of these ahead of time. Prices for even the heavier
cattle then declined quite sharply towards the end
of the year as a consequence of the general economic
environment and following a dry season in many
other parts of Australia. The combination of lower
stock numbers at the end of the year, valued at lower
prices, resulted in the company recording a loss.
However, it is anticipated that the current rebuilding
of the herd will have the opposite effect to this in the
coming years.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
During the early part of 2009, the palm-oil market
recovered from the year-end level of US$525 per tonne
to the current level of around US$745 per tonne. This
was in response to a decline in stocks for both palm
oil and other vegetable oils, the latter partly arising from
a lower-than-expected soybean crop in Argentina in
the wake of severe droughts suffered there. The
Group's f.f.b. crops on the majority-owned Indonesian
estates for the first quarter are broadly in line with
those achieved last year and some 15% lower on
the associated company estates, owing to a seasonal
downturn in the yield cycle being experienced by
PT Agro Muko. Clearing and planting work continues
apace on the Group's new Indonesian oil-palm projects.
Beneficial rain has fallen both on Woodands and
on the majority of NAPCo's properties. Prices for the
lighter-weight, grass-fed cattle have increased following
the rainfall. However, they have eased back for
the heavier, grain-finished cattle as these are more
aligned to the export market where demand has
slowed in line with the global economic downturn.
Notwithstanding this, demand appears to be holding
up well for good-quality pastoral properties and
pastoral companies.
In view of, inter alia, the expected lower average
palm-oil price and reduction in, or lack of, Malaysian
property sales, the results for 2009 are likely to be
lower than for 2008.
MANAGEMENT
I am pleased to report that Mr Chandra Sekaran joined
the Group in mid-2008 and has been appointed
President Director of the Group's Indonesian operations.
He is Malaysian and has had extensive experience of
both the Malaysian and Indonesian plantation sectors,
especially with regard to new Indonesian oil-palm
developments in recent years.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I am sure shareholders will join the rest of the board
and me in expressing our appreciation to the managers,
staffs and workforces in the Group's various fields
of operation for the valuable contribution they have
made towards the achievement of another record
year's results.
Richard Robinow
Chairman
30 April 2009
7
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT