 OVERALL RESULTS
I am delighted to report that the profit for the year
increased to US$24.45 million, compared with
US$20.71 million in 2009. Earnings per share
increased accordingly to 41.17 cents (2009 - 34.94
cents). The significant improvement in the result was
attributable to a number of factors, the most notable
of which were the exceptionally robust palm-oil
price, an increased crop of oil-palm fresh fruit
bunches (f.f.b. ) and a strong Australian beef-cattle
market, buoyed by an excellent season. Offsetting
these positive factors was a biological-asset-value
decline on PT Agro Muko.
DIVIDEND
The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend
of 5.50p per share which, together with the interim
dividend of 2.00p, paid in November 2010, makes
7.50p for the year, an increase of 0.50p on last year.
A scrip-dividend alternative is, again, being offered
this year.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
Indonesia
Since the start of the Group's expansionary initiative
in 2005, substantial progress has been achieved in
Indonesia. New oil-palm development areas have
been secured both in East Kalimantan and on Bangka
Island. The total new areas developed by the Group
at the end of 2010 amounted to some 10,900
hectares, in addition to which some 4,200 hectares
have been developed on behalf of smallholders'
co-operatives, which will be managed by the Group
and whose fruit will be processed by the Group's
mills. Of these total areas, 1,200 hectares were
planted during 2010 in East Kalimantan, plus 450
hectares for the co-operatives, and 450 hectares
planted on Bangka, plus 200 hectares for the co-
operatives. During the latter part of the year,
harvesting of the first plantings in East Kalimantan
commenced (harvesting on Bangka commenced in
2009) and the new palm-oil mill in Kalimantan is
scheduled to be commissioned at the end of 2011.
In the meantime, the Kalimantan fruit, like that on
Bangka, is being processed by an external mill.
Largely as a result of the development and planting
of the new project areas, and without taking account
of any further plantings, production of f.f.b. from
the Group's majority-owned estates is forecast to
increase from the 2010 level of some 200,000 tonnes
to some 300,000 tonnes in 2012 and 500,000 tonnes
in 2015. These are very significant increases and,
subject to palm-oil prices remaining at healthy levels,
are likely to impact extremely favourably on the
Group's revenue in the near future, and to provide
the means to maintain the Group's continuing
development programme.
It is hoped to continue to develop and plant new
areas at a rate of approximately 3,000 hectares per
annum but this is by no means guaranteed, as agreeing
compensation terms with the local people, and settling
other land-title issues on areas which the Group plans
to develop, is increasingly complicated and time-
consuming. It continues to be hard to determine what
land areas covered by the initial permit are available
to be developed. It is currently estimated that
approximately a further 5,000 hectares are available
in East Kalimantan (plus 1,500 hectares for the
co-operatives) and a further 3,600 hectares in Bangka
(plus 2,800 hectares for the co-operatives). Management
is seeking to secure additional, environmentally-suitable
land, ideally in the vicinity of the East Kalimantan project.
Australia
Whilst the Group's shareholding in The North Australian
Pastoral Company Pty Limited (NAPCo ) remained
unchanged during the year, the board continues to
review any opportunities to acquire additional shares
in the company as and when they arise.
Two strategic initiatives at NAPCo are still under way.
The first is the expansion of the company's feedlot,
Wainui. Some delays were experienced as a result
of the heavy rainfall and flooding in the latter part
of the year and in early 2011, and it is currently
M. P. EVANS GROUP 6
                
Chairman' s statement
Stronger palm-oil prices and much-
improved results at NAPCo have
contributed to another successful year estimated that the work will be completed by mid-2011,
a few months behind the original schedule. The
expansion will give rise to further economies of scale
and improve the capacity to manage fluctuating
seasons by bringing cattle into the feedlot at younger
ages when conditions warrant it. The second initiative
is the continuing programme of drilling new boreholes,
principally on the company's main breeding property,
Alexandria Station. Another five bores were drilled
during 2010. This allows more breeders to be run
on the property and has helped to lift its value.
Woodlands, like NAPCo, benefited from the significant
rainfall during 2010. Pasture improvement and new
fencing previously carried out reaped handsome
dividends, with a magnificent body of feed produced
during the year. This enabled a substantially-larger
herd to be grazed and, accordingly, it increased to
some 10,200 head at the end of 2010 from 3,700
at the end of 2009.
Notwithstanding the attractive prospects for Woodlands,
it remains the board's intention in the longer term to
sell the property, once market conditions are more
propitious, and continue, if possible, to build on the
Group's investment in NAPCo.
Malaysia
The Group's divestment from Malaysia continued
in 2010 with the Group's sale of its 20% interest in
Kennedy, Burkill & Company Berhad. The Group's
two principal remaining interests in Malaysia are the
70-hectare Bertam Estate and its 40% share of Bertam
Properties Sdn. Berhad (Bertam Properties ), which
are estimated to have a combined value of some
US$50 million. It is planned to sell both these interests,
in favour of continued expansion in Indonesian
palm oil and Australian cattle, as and when market
conditions are suitable.
PALM-OIL ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
After fluctuating around the US$800 per tonne mark
in the first half of 2010, palm oil staged an impressive
upsurge during the second half when it reached near-
record highs. This strength was deemed attributable
to continuing strong demand, especially from India,
China and the EU, and to a decline in production
following heavy rainfall in some parts of South East
Asia. A lower-than-expected US soybean crop also
contributed to a vegetable-oil supply imbalance.
F.f.b. crops on the Group's majority-held Sumatran
estates, and on Bangka, at 190,300 tonnes, were
pleasingly 11% ahead of last year, while this figure
was enhanced by a further 6,100 tonnes, representing
the first fruit harvested in Kalimantan. The extraction
rate from Pangkatan's crude-palm-oil mill also
increased - from 22.4% to 23.0% - as field-collection
and mill standards continued to improve. Crops from
the Group's two associates declined a little, by 3%
to 317,900 tonnes for PT Agro Muko and by 7% to
48,200 tonnes for PT Kerasaan Indonesia.
BEEF-CATTLE ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
Prices for lighter-weight cattle, such as those fattened
on Woodlands, rose sharply during the course of 2010,
in response to growing demand from graziers with an
increasing abundance of good pasture following the
excellent seasonal conditions. Prices for the grain-
finished, heavier cattle, such as those produced by
NAPCo, increased markedly too, despite the strength
of the Australian Dollar which would normally reduce
demand from the company's traditional export
markets, Japan, Korea and the USA.
As a result of both the stronger prices and the improved
weight gains derived from the much better season,
both Woodlands and NAPCo enjoyed sharply-
improved results in 2010, compared with 2009.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Since the end of 2010, the palm-oil price increased to
over US$1,300 per tonne (cif Rotterdam) - close to the
all-time high of US$1,400 per tonne reached in 2008
- before easing slightly to fluctuate around the
US$1,150 mark - still a very attractive price in spite
of the export tax which continues to be imposed by the
Indonesian government. With the outlook for demand
continuing to be strong, and the supply of vegetable
oils generally remaining tight, price prospects appear
favourable for the short to medium term. With regard
to production, 2011 has got off to a good start. F.f.b.
crops on the Group's majority-owned estates to the end
of March were 54,400 tonnes compared with 39,900
tonnes for the same period in 2010, a 36% increase.
I refer earlier to the exciting, sharp increase in the
Group's f.f.b. crops projected in the next few years.
Cattle prices too look set to remain firm, in view of the
continuing shortage of supply, not least since the size
of the US herd has now diminished to its lowest level
since 1958. This augurs well for the growing production
on both Woodlands and the NAPCo properties.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I should like to express the board's appreciation to the
Group's managers, staffs and workforces in our various
operations in Indonesia, Australia and Malaysia for
their hard work and dedication, sometimes in difficult
circumstances, in what has proved to be another
successful year.
Peter Hadsley-Chaplin
Chairman
21 April 2011
2010 ANNUAL REPORT 7
                