 Multi Group plc Annual Report
The period under review has been one of intense activity and the Board has worked hard to build the Group by completing a number of
acquisitions. Despite this activity Multi has reported a significant loss for the period which is clearly disappointing.
The directors believed that there was considerable scope to build a profitable group and to achieve economies from bringing together a
number of smaller operators within the highly fragmented staffing and recruitment industry. The strategy was to use Multi as a vehicle to
consolidate existing operators within selected sectors. It was also a part of the strategy to create an efficient central back office
function, which initially would enable operators within businesses acquired to focus on the generation of new business and would in time
enable the Group to derive benefits from economies of scale.
Later the strategy was refined to focus on the specialist health and care sectors which were seen to benefit from positive market forces
such as an ageing population within the UK and an increasing public expectation that each year greater levels of healthcare and other care
services would be delivered to them.
In March 2005 the directors announced the Group's first step into the recruitment sector with the acquisition of Berry Recruitment Holdings
Limited a private company providing both general staff and of more interest to the directors, personnel to the medical and care sectors. 
In June 2005 the directors announced the acquisition of the business and assets of Grays Personnel, principally because its four branches
were geographically complimentary to and filled gaps in Berry's existing branch network. This business was then fully integrated into
Berry Recruitment and became a part of that business.
In October 2005 the directors announced the acquisition of a ninety percent interest in 1st 4 Locums Limited, trading as The Locum
Partnership (TLP ), with an option to acquire the remaining ten percent on an agreed valuation basis at any time during the next three
years. TLP was a private company operating from a single branch in Ilford, supplying a range of allied health professionals on a contract
basis to the NHS and to the private sector.
In February 2006 the directors announced the acquisition of Global Medics Limited, together with its newly acquired subsidiary, Doctors
on Call Limited. Global Medics was a private company trading from offices in London and in Yorkshire, supplying consultants and senior
grade doctors on locum or substantive contracts to the NHS and to the private sector. Doctors on Call provided a similar service and was
an approved supplier under the recently introduced National Framework Agreement. Historically both businesses were fast growing and
highly profitable. This was the largest acquisition made to date and was intended to be the cornerstone upon which the future
development of the Group would be based. The transaction was in effect the floatation of Global via Multi and as such involved an even
higher degree of scrutiny than usual by all concerned.
In March 2006 the directors announced that the Group had disposed of Berry Recruitment Limited, the Berry Group's loss making
general recruitment business, to that company's management team as its continued ownership was not consistent with the Group's
focus on the health and care sectors. The turnover in the period attributable to this business was some  8.49 million on which the
Company reported an operating loss before depreciation of  459,000. The enterprise value of this transaction to Multi was  1.51 million,
which figure includes the cash consideration of  550,000 and the  1.01 million of net debt assumed by the purchasers. The results for
this business are shown under  discontinued operations  in the profit and loss account.
In addition to the acquisitions made the directors investigated and pursued to varying degrees a number of other opportunities, including a
potential bid for a substantial IT resourcing services group, which did not come to fruition. As a consequence of this activity one-off costs
amounting to some  158,000 have been incurred and these have been written off to the profit and loss account in the period. 
At this stage the directors were of the opinion that a solid, profitable, cash generative base had been established upon which to continue
to develop the Group.
However in July 2006, after the end of the period under review, the directors were obliged to announce to the London Stock Exchange
that it had become apparent that Global Medics' performance for the year to March 2007 was likely to be significantly below the level
portrayed to the Company by the Global Vendors at the time of the Acquisition. It was also announced that Justyn Randall, who had been
appointed to the Board as Managing Director Medical upon completion of the acquisition, had resigned with immediate effect. The
immediacy and scale of the underperformance was such that rather than contributing significantly to the Group's profitability and cash
generation as had been anticipated the acquisition instead posed a threat to the ongoing viability of the Group.
Having considered in detail the various commercial and legal options open to them the Board subsequently concluded that it would be 
in the best interests of the Group if the Global Vendors were to repurchase the entire issued share capital of Global Medics together 
with its various subsidiaries including Doctors on Call. Terms were then negotiated and agreed with the original vendors and a circular
detailing the terms of the disposal and giving notice of an EGM at which shareholders consent for the disposal will be sought has been
sent to shareholders.
Executive Chairman's Statement
for the period ended 31 March 2006
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Multi Group PLC
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
As a consequence the directors have concluded that the carrying value on the Company's balance sheet at 31 March 2006 of the
goodwill associated with the acquisition of Global Medics should be substantially reduced. 
The  7.88 million provision against the value of goodwill, which is explained in greater detail in note 22(c) to the accounts, has had a
major adverse impact on the reported results for the period.
On page 5 shareholders will find a pro-forma balance sheet for the Group as at 31 March 2006 which shows the position as it would
have been had the proposed disposal been completed prior to that date.
The results for the period under review can be broken into four main parts; the operating loss incurred as the directors continued the
assembly of the Group, the one off costs associated with the investigation of acquisition opportunities, the losses incurred by the 
general recruitment business prior to its disposal in March 2006 and the significant provision that has been made to reduce the 
carrying value of goodwill. 
Results for the period
During the fifteen months to 31 March 2006, with only partial revenue contributions from companies acquired or sold in the period, the
Group reported turnover of  15.98 million on which it achieved gross profit of  4.02 million or 25.2%. Of this  7.48 million relates to
the turnover of continuing businesses, including Global, on which it achieved gross profit of  2.02 million or 27%. Comparison with
previous years is not considered meaningful as the Company was then operating in a different industry sector.
The operating loss, prior to depreciation, amortisation and a provision of  7.88 million against the carrying value of the goodwill
associated with the acquisition of Global Medics Limited, incurred during the period as the directors continued the assembly of the Group
amounted to  780k. This sum includes the aggregate cost of  158k of investigating other acquisition opportunities. The losses, before
depreciation and amortisation, associated with the general recruitment business sold in March 2006 were  459k. Thus in aggregate the
Group has reported an operating loss of  9.50 million.
FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation
In preparing the accounts the Group has adopted for the first time the presentation requirements of FRS 25. The principal impact of this
has been for the  2.6 million of preference shares issued to the vendors of Global Medics to be shown on both the Company's and
Group's balance sheet under the heading of Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  rather than under Capital and
reserves. In addition  700k of contingent consideration payable in equity shares relating to the acquisition of TLP has been included within
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  rather than under Capital and reserves.
On this basis at 31 March 2006 the Group had net assets of  1.34 million. Had FRS 25 not been adopted the net asset position of the
Group would have been some  3.3 million higher.
Change of accounting reference date
Following the disposal of the general recruitment business in March 2006 and the acquisition of Global Medics in February 2006, Multi
changed its accounting reference date from 31 December to 31 March. This change was to ensure that future results will more
accurately reflect the composition and focus of the Group. 
The future
Following the severe set back resulting from the acquisition of Global Medics and to ensure the Group's survival the directors, and in
particular the Group's recently appointed Operations Director Janet Barn, intend to focus on improving the performance of the Group's
remaining businesses. They will also focus on reducing the Group's central cost base so as to enable Multi to return to profitability as
soon as possible. 
It is also intended that in due course the role currently fulfilled by the Company's Executive Chairman will be split into two roles, being
those of Chairman and of Chief Executive and that a new Chairman will be appointed to the Board.
Once this has been achieved the directors' focus will turn once again to the development of the Group.
Oliver Cooke
Executive Chairman
23 October 2006
Multi Group plc Annual report
Executive Chairman's Statement (continued)
for the period ended 31 March 2006