 Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2013 
3 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
Financial review  
 
Murgitroyd has delivered growth for the twelfth consecutive year with turnover increasing to  36.0m (2012: 
 35.7m). Organic expansion and tight cost controls have delivered positive results whilst enabling continued 
investment in the sustainable long-term growth of the business amidst a difficult macro economic environment. 
 
Operating profit rose by 2.2% to  4.6m (2012:  4.5m) excluding the Group's head office building revaluation 
(2013:  115,000 uplift, 2012:  30,000 uplift).  This year marks the last distortion due to the annual revaluation as 
the charge to the Income Statement made in 2009 of  355,000 has now fully reversed, and as such, any future 
upward revaluations will be credited directly to equity.  
 
Profit before income tax increased by 4.5% to  4.6m (2012:  4.4m) reflecting organic growth and a  
continued tight control on costs.  
 
As highlighted at the time of the Interim Results, the change of sales mix has seen the gross margin percentage 
fall from 67% in 2008 to 58% in the current year, and reflects both the pricing pressures that exist in the market 
for professional services and the business development strategy adopted over the last few years.  This strategy 
has seen the Group concentrate on winning new filing work from larger corporate clients, predominantly in the 
USA.  The success of this strategy, notwithstanding the recessionary environment of the last five years, has 
been seen in both the growth in overall sales and earnings, but more specifically the increase in sales to US 
clients.  Revenues from US clients have increased from  3.1m in 2008 to the  10.2m reported for 2013.  
Securing instructions to file large volumes of Patents and/or Trade Marks is both profitable and as importantly 
accrues downstream work, over a three to five year period, as applications are subsequently examined, 
prosecuted and granted.   
 
Basic earnings per share increased to a record level of 38.2p (2012: 36.8p).  Once again, the increase in 
earnings per share can be partly attributed to the continuing reduction in UK corporate tax rates.  
 
Net cash flow from operating activities remains strong at  2.1m.  Net debt continues to fall and at 31 May 2013 
stood at  1.9m (31 May 2012:  3.2m). Murgitroyd continues to operate well within all of its banking covenants.   
 
   Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2013 
4 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Operating review 
 
Murgitroyd operated fifteen offices in eight countries worldwide during the year and we continue to look to 
develop this global network.  As well as driving organic growth, the Group has continued significant investment 
in business development, which is critical to securing future new work.  This has seen the establishment of a 
second US business development hub in the San Francisco area, now with two members of staff, as well as the 
expansion of sales and marketing staff in Durham, NC, and here in Europe. 
 
The Group has continued to recruit and train paralegals, specialist formalities staff, and Patent and Trade Mark 
Administrators.  This has enabled us to complete fee earning work of the highest standard at competitive prices 
to existing and new clients alike whilst keeping tight control of costs.  This also reflects a key restructuring of how 
the Group delivers services to clients, particularly relevant in a recessionary environment, and has both enabled 
the winning of work at lower prices and delivered an effective expansion of fee earning capacity without 
increasing the number of Attorneys employed as work has transferred from Attorneys to non-Attorneys. 
 
Selective and strategic recruitment of Attorneys does, however, remain a key component of the Group's 
expansion plans, and during 2013 we have continued to grow Attorney numbers in our new offices in Munich 
and the City of London.   
 
Following the year end, in August, the Group was also pleased to welcome John Liu who has brought his 
practice to the Munich office.  John is an experienced German Patent Attorney with an established client base 
which will both complement and add to our growing German operation.  He joins a growing Attorney group, now 
numbering four, in Munich whose growth has been overseen by Executive Director Graham Murnane who 
returns to the UK later this year after a two-year secondment. 
 
We also continue to develop the London City office, which remains another specific focus for growth in the years 
to come and complements our existing established presence in south London.  
 
Continuing the growth in Munich and central London are important parts of the Group's future strategy.  
 
Under the European Union's agreement on a Unified Patent Court (UPC), London and Munich will each be 
home to a section of the central division of the UPC.  The third location will be in Paris and, as stated previously, 
we will monitor developments concerning the introduction of the new Unitary Patent - likely not now until 2015 - 
to determine what is the most advantageous strategy for Paris.  Any new Paris presence would complement the 
Group's established French operation in Nice. 
 
As previously highlighted, sales to US clients have grown by circa 19% in 2013.  Much of this new business 
comes from larger corporate clients utilising the Group's IP Portal Patent national phase filing service.  Filings 
made using this service accrue significant savings to the instructing client, as well as downstream work for the 
Group.  
 
In the year under review, the Group invested in additional sales people in both Durham, NC and on the US West 
Coast.  The strategic importance of the USA as a source of business cannot be overstated, US applicants still 
accounting for almost a quarter of all European Patents (EP) filed according to European Patent Office (EPO) 
statistics.   
 
Furthermore, investments have also been made in systems development by our own team of in-house systems 
and IT developers, with a view to continuing the sustainable growth of the business.  Much of this investment is 
again geared towards both the lowering of the costs of delivering services to clients and streamlining the Group's 
interactions with them, and in ensuring the scalability of the Group's unitary operating model as expansion 
continues.  
  Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2013 
5 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
The market  
 
The markets in which Murgitroyd operates continued to display growth.  As reported in the Interim Results, 
statistics available from the European Community Trade Mark Office (OHIM), showed an increase in 
Community Trade Mark (CTM) applications in 2012, up on the number of applications in 2011, a year that had 
seen the previous record high number of filings.  This growth has continued in 2013 with the number of CTM 
applications up just under 5% in the first six months of the calendar year. 
 
The EPO preliminary filing statistics for 2012 published in January 2013 reported an annual increase of 5.7% in 
EP applications, to 258,000 applications, setting a new record.  Of these, 63% came from applicants based 
outside Europe, with 24.7% of filings coming from the USA.  
 
Whilst the market as a whole remains buoyant as regards the numbers of Patents and Trade Marks being filed, 
price pressures remain.  In short, clients expect the same, if not more, for less, from their professional advisers.  
Therefore, it is increasingly important that winning new business is prioritised whilst costs are tightly controlled 
as the work is processed. 
 
People 
 
These results would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment shown by our staff; we 
would like to take this opportunity to thank all of them. 
 
Staff numbers increased slightly and in 2013 the Group employed 240 staff on average (2012: 235). Attorney 
numbers fell slightly during the period reflecting the increased levels of work given to the paralegal teams 
already mentioned. 
 
We remain committed to continued investment in our employees, including the recruitment of graduates to train 
towards qualification as Attorneys. 
 
Share price  
  
During the period, the middle market price of the company's shares fluctuated between 313p and 518p.  The 
current middle market price is 525p. 
 
Dividend 
 
An interim dividend, of 3.75p per share, was paid during the year, reflecting the Board's confidence in the 
continued performance of the Group.  A final dividend of 8.75p per share is being proposed, giving a total 
dividend for the year of 12.5p (2012: 12p), an increase of 4.2% year on year. 
 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 4 November 2013 to 
shareholders on the register on 11 October 2013.  The ex-dividend date is 9 October 2013. 
 
  Murgitroyd Group PLC 
Directors' report and financial statements 
31 May 2013 
6 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
Outlook  
 
We are pleased to once again report growth for the year at a time when the economic environment remains 
challenging.  We are encouraged by these results and the investments made for future growth, are confident we 
can continue to grow the business, and are therefore optimistic about continuing the delivery of long-term 
sustainable growth.  The focus remains to generate value for shareholders through organic growth, however the 
Board will also consider acquisition opportunities if they are complementary to the Group's existing offering and 
immediately earnings enhancing. 
 
Ian G Murgitroyd, Chairman 
9 September 2013 