 Nasstar plc 
Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2012 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
 
3 
 
Highlights 
 
 Turnover  2.4m (2011:  2.3m) 
 60% increase in Hosted Desktop subscribers to 3,200 at period end (2011: 2,000) 
 EBITDA* of  106,000 (2011:  336,000)  
 Loss after tax  313,000 (2011: loss  111,000) 
  306,000 new equity raised during the year 
 Awarded Citrix European Service Provider of the Year 2012 
 Transformation programme to operate the Hosted Desktop platform from two data 
centres in progress and set to become operational in Q1 2013 
 New App Portal  designed, strengthening the Company's intellectual property 
 New version of the Hosted Desktop platform offering Microsoft Lync 2013 as an app 
with optional Voice over IP (VoIP) service integration being developed for launch in 
2013 
 
*Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and share-based 
payments 
Chairman's Statement 
 
Turnover increased to  2.4m, with subscribers of the Company's key product, Hosted 
Desktop, growing by 60% during the year. Hosted Desktop has a number of Unique Selling 
Points (USPs ). Our Hosted Desktop platform enables us to deliver a wide variety of apps 
from multiple software vendors, offering real value to businesses wishing to move their IT to 
the cloud. Invariably companies who decide to take advantage of all the benefits of cloud 
computing, such as anywhere access to their desktop and data, will need to migrate their 
bespoke or industry specific software apps to the cloud. This is where Nasstar's Hosted 
Desktop platform can be leveraged because it provides a single access point through which 
each customer can access both the most commonly used apps, such as Microsoft Office, as 
well as the customer's key suite of business apps. The ability to deliver apps of all shapes 
and sizes to end users in a single place is the reason we have focused our resources on 
developing the Hosted Desktop platform, because this offers a service of real value and is 
one that cannot be commoditised easily by any single software vendor. As versions of apps 
change and new apps are released, Hosted Desktop remains the constant - a delivery 
platform for all the apps used by a business, all centralised in the cloud and accessible on 
almost any device via Hosted Desktop.  
 
A further USP of Nasstar Hosted Desktop is that we have our own intellectual property in the 
architecture of the platform and in the App Portal, the device by which customers are able to 
manage key aspects of desktop usage and apps for their business using a simple browser-
based management tool. The App Portal provides customers with control over their users' 
desktops, apps and data. 
 
Revenue analysis 
Our revenue is generated from monthly subscriptions to our cloud services, Hosted Desktop 
and Hosted Exchange. Hosted Desktop revenue consists of per-user-per-month 
subscriptions, cloud storage of customers' data and hosted apps. Hosted apps include 
standard software such as Microsoft Office and apps bespoke to the customer's business or 
industry.  
  Nasstar plc 
Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2012 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
 
4 
 
Hosted Exchange is the name given to a hosted version of Microsoft's Exchange email 
software, which provides a mailbox that users can access from their desktop, through a web 
browser or on a mobile device. Hosted Exchange revenue is derived from a monthly fee per 
mailbox.  
 
It is important to appreciate that a Hosted Exchange mailbox can be sold as a stand-alone 
product whereby a company just takes hosted mailboxes without Hosted Desktop. However, it 
is also a key app used by most customers who take the full Hosted Desktop service. So, for 
Nasstar, Hosted Exchange email is both an app for Hosted Desktop users and a  stand-alone' 
product where a customer just wants a mailbox. Hosted Exchange revenue is therefore 
divided into two types - stand-alone mailbox revenue and hosted app revenue. As explained 
below, it is the stand-alone mailbox revenue that is non-core and which has reduced during 
the period. When Nasstar sells Hosted Desktop, customers can use either a Nasstar hosted 
mailbox or their own mailbox solution hosted by a third party. One of our largest partners, for 
example, sells our Hosted Desktop service with its own Hosted Exchange service. We 
specifically developed Hosted Desktop to be flexible enough to plug into third-party Hosted 
Exchange solutions such as those of partners and Microsoft Office 365.  
 
We have operated our own Hosted Exchange platform since 2004 and it was the main focus 
of our sales between 2004 and 2008, whilst we developed our Hosted Desktop platform and 
tested it with a small number of early adopters. The result was that by 2008 nearly all of our 
revenue was from stand-alone mailboxes. In 2008 we switched our sales focus to Hosted 
Desktop in order to ensure that we built a business with our own IP and service that was 
substantially less susceptible to commoditisation. 
 
Hosted Desktop revenue, which has risen 50% since 2010, was  1.5m in the year. This was 
63% of total turnover in the year compared to 52% in 2011 and 42% in 2010. We expect 
Hosted Desktop revenue as a percentage of total turnover to continue to increase in 2013.  
 
During 2012, revenue from mailboxes fell by  0.24m to  0.74m. This reduction, from 50% of 
our turnover two years ago to 29% in 2012 was almost exclusively from the loss of stand-
alone mailbox customers - those who had taken just the Hosted Exchange email service 
without Hosted Desktop.. We expect sales of mailboxes as an app for use by Hosted Desktop 
customers to increase in future, whilst we believe the revenue from stand-alone mailboxes 
has largely stabilised.  
 
In our view the shift from stand-alone mailbox to Hosted Desktop revenue has been vital for 
our future prospects.  
 
Our target number of Hosted Desktop users by September 2013 is 4,000, a 100% growth 
from our current number following the expiry of the contract with Allied Healthcare, and a 25% 
increase on the September 2012 figure of 3,200.  
 
As stated in our Half Yearly Report, we are positioning the Company for growth rather than 
short-term profitability, and we have continued with this approach. This means continuing to 
build a bigger and better Hosted Desktop platform, with more product development and more 
infrastructure rather than short-term profits. We expect to be trading profitably on a monthly 
basis once we are in the 3,500 to 4,000 range of Hosted Desktop subscribers. 
 
Transformation programme and product development 
During the year, we continued development of our Hosted Desktop platform. This 
development included a newly-designed App Portal and a number of product enhancements. 
Most notably we began a programme to transform Hosted Desktop into a multi-site platform, 
hosted across two data centres. A contract was entered into with SSE Telecoms for both the 
provision of data centre space and for connectivity between SSE Telecom's facility and our 
systems hosted in London.  
  Nasstar plc 
Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2012 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
 
5 
 
The Board considers this transformation of the Hosted Desktop service to a multi-site platform 
to be an important step for winning larger and more contracts. The result is higher costs in the 
short term (which started in the second half of the year) without any immediate payback, but 
we believe that there will be substantial economic benefits as we scale. Serving Hosted 
Desktop from two data centres will increase our capacity and, in our view, attract more sales 
from having a geographically diverse system. There will also be a reduction in per subscriber 
data centre costs once we reach a certain critical mass that we hope to achieve by 2014. 
Costs incurred during the year included the set up and ongoing rental of rack space in the 
second data centre and the cost of connectivity between the two sites. The transformation 
programme is continuing into the new financial year.  
 
Our Research and Development team are also working on the next version of our Hosted 
Desktop product that will include infrastructure and networking options that will enable 
customers to use Voice over IP (VoIP) in the Hosted Desktop environment. 
 
We attracted additional institutional investment during the period which strengthened our 
ability to pursue our transformational growth strategy and we believe we are in a strong 
position to capitalise on the increased adoption rate of cloud services. 
 
Outlook 
In October 2012, Nasstar received the Citrix European Service Provider of the Year award 
which was presented to us in Barcelona at the Citrix Synergy summit. This award is a 
reflection of the quality of our Hosted Desktop product and underlines our position as a 
market leader in the hosted desktop space. In the new financial year we have continued to 
make progress with our multi-site transformation programme and product development, whilst 
our sales team continues to work closely with a number of valuable partners to win new 
business. We are very positive about the product and strategy, we have a clear sales target 
and we are optimistic for the year ahead. 
 
 
Lord Daresbury 
Chairman 
18 December 2012 
 