 Nautical Petroleum plc 04 Business Review
Nautical Petroleum is pleased to report  
to Shareholders a further year of 
significant progress in the development  
of its asset portfolio. 
John Conlin
Chairman
Chairman's 
statement
Nautical Petroleum is pleased to report to Shareholders a further 
year of significant progress in the development of its asset portfolio. 
This progress has however been tempered by a period driven 
primarily by the dramatic collapse in oil prices seen in the second 
half of 2008 and the onset of global recession. Our market 
capitalisation bottomed out at a value equivalent to our cash in 
hand, where it remained for some six months. Plainly at oil prices 
of around $40 per barrel, the market assigned no value to our 
portfolio of discovered hydrocarbons or our diverse exploration 
portfolio. Stimulated by the welcome fiscal boost from the 
Chancellor's April 2009 budget announcement of the new Field 
Allowance's for heavy oil fields, and subsequently by a recovery in 
oil price to levels above $70, the share price has stabilised to its 
current level. 
While short term oil prices trends can be very uncertain there is 
reasonable consensus that over the medium to long-term 
timeframe, prices will not drop below $70 per barrel for a sustained 
period, while the probability of further growth remains. 
Importantly for our future heavy oil production streams, the 
narrowing of the discount related to heavy oil is also a broadly 
accepted trend. 
With this commodity pricing backdrop, the potential value of 
Nautical's interests in the successful development of Mariner and 
Kraken is still very heavily discounted but we are confident that 
increasing value will be attached to these assets once the 
respective Joint Ventures move these field developments into the 
execution phase. This therefore remains our top priority and key to 
this is the role of Statoil on Mariner. 
Mariner
Statoil's strong commitment to the Mariner project, highlighted 
recently in the media and during the recent visit of its CEO to the 
UK, is greatly encouraging. Moreover their experience of 
developing heavy oil fields becomes increasingly visible in the 
diverse range of technical studies initiated by them to identify the 
optimal shape of a Mariner development.
As an example, Statoil has applied geophysical techniques proven in 
their successful Grane heavy oil field by acquiring two further 
seismic surveys during the period. These mark the first major 
operational activities on Mariner since the extended well test in 
1997. Both surveys have significantly improved our understanding of 
the Maureen and Heimdal reservoirs and we anticipate the improved 
imaging will be reflected in updated reservoir forecasting models 
early in 2010. All the signs are that the Mariner development is 
economically robust and moving inexorably forward to project 
sanction and Field Development Plan (FDP) submission in 2011 with 
first oil in 2015.
One consequence of the projected first oil date of 2015 is the 
decision to reclassify the Maureen hydrocarbons from reserves to 
contingent resources in line with industry best practice on 
resource definition. Based on updated estimates from the Operator 
Statoil, combined gross contingent resources for the Maureen and 
Heimdal reservoirs combined are now 369mmbo gross (90mmbo 
net). This compares to 274mmbo (67mmbo net) carried in 2008. 
Kraken
Nautical operates the Kraken discovery with a 35% equity share, 
and therefore dictates the pace of development. It is also important 
to note that the oil viscosity in Kraken is within the range of the 
Captain Field which currently produces at around 25,000bopd and  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
is targeting a recovery factor of over 50%.
While buoyed by the tremendous results of 9/2b-2, the failure of a 
third well (9/2b-3 drilled in September/October 2008), albeit 
aggressively located to the northeast of the discovery wells to 
chase an upside resources scenario, needed to be fully understood. 
As a result, a controlled source electromagnetic (CSEM) survey 
was commissioned to further define the extent of the reservoir. 
Enhanced seismic processing and regional studies are also in 
progress. In combination with the CSEM results, this study 
programme is focussed on the identification of the target for a 
further appraisal well to be drilled in the first half of 2010.
 
As a result of the dry well 9/2b-3, the gross contingent resource 
estimate for Kraken has been reduced from 106mmbo (37mmbo 
net) to the 83mmbo (29mmbo net) contained in a core area to the 
north and south of the two successful wells. Encouragingly, the 
new seismic data has identified significant exploration potential to 
the west of the core area. 
Development concept studies have meanwhile continued, with the 
Joint Venture favouring a phased development solution. It is 
anticipated that the results of the upcoming well can be quickly 
incorporated into our assessment, and hence we believe that it 
remains realistic to target project sanction and FDP submission by 
the end of 2010.
Rest of the Portfolio
Whilst Kraken and Mariner have been our key areas of focus, we 
continued to strengthen our position on the East Shetland Platform 
by adding a further six blocks to the portfolio in the 25
th
 Licensing 
Round. We were also pleased to further consolidate our position in 
France with the award of two further licences.
Financial Positioning 
Since the inception of Nautical in 2005,  38m has been raised of 
which  19.1m remained at year end. Nautical remains debt free 
and our  7.5m secured debt facility remains undrawn and fully 
available. The impact of the global financial crisis on the cash 
positions of small and mid cap E&P companies in particular, 
suggests that our creative farm-out deals of the recent past may be 
more challenging to replicate in the immediate future. 
Nevertheless, we are confident that we have sufficient financial 
resources to meet the immediate needs of the business as we 
progress Kraken and Mariner towards development decisions.
Looking further ahead, we continue to position the Group to obtain 
the necessary financing to implement our heavy oil development 
strategy through the most effective combination of debt, equity 
funding and other means. In that regard, the fact that a number of 
capital raisings have recently being achieved in the E&P sector at 
moderate discounts, is evidence of emerging confidence in the 
sector. In parallel, we continue to receive encouraging signals from 
advisers and the principal lending institutions of fertile ground for 
project financing particularly for those heavy oil projects put under 
the spotlight by HM Government's fiscal encouragement.
Capability
We continued with our model of outsourcing evaluation work 
during the period, enabling us to keep our administration 
expenses to a minimum, whilst maintaining access to a highly 
capable group of technical experts. That this works so effectively, 
is a tribute to the cohesion and versatility of the core executive 
team. In particular, the commercial creativity of the team is widely 
acknowledged and will serve Nautical well in our efforts to 
capitalise on our portfolio of opportunities. However, looking 
forward to a sharpened focus on field development definition in 
Mariner and Kraken and the consequential major investment 
decisions, it is our intention to complement the core in-house team 
with a full-time Engineering Manager.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ian Williams who led 
Nautical energetically as chairman through its formative years 
until his departure at the end of 2008. The Board would also wish 
to express our appreciation for the supportive leadership of Patrick 
Kennedy who took on the role of acting Chairman during the first 
half of 2009.
Moving Forward in 2010 
The past 12 months has been turbulent for E&P companies, and 
whilst the overall economy remains fragile there are signs of 
confidence returning to the sector. Importantly for Nautical, there 
is some evidence albeit mixed as yet, of a lower cost environment 
emerging and having successfully preserved our financial 
resources during this period of instability, we are now better 
positioned to take advantage of this.
Our planned activity for next year anticipates a further appraisal 
well on Kraken as we push towards the goal of project sanction 
and FDP submission by the end of 2010. In parallel we expect 
Statoil to continue to progress toward concept selection on 
Mariner and award of the contract for Front End Engineering and 
Design (FEED). Whilst our key focus will remain on Kraken and 
Mariner, we will continue to progress our exploration portfolio, 
with the first material activity scheduled to be the drilling of the 
Catcher prospect in Q2, 2010.
John Conlin
Chairman
Our planned activity for next year
anticipates a further appraisal well on
Kraken as we push towards the goal of 
project sanction FDP submission by the 
end of 2010. In parallel, we expect 
Statoilto continue to progress toward 
concept selection on Mariner and award 
of the contract for FEED.