 17 16
Directors' report
Principal shareholders
The following have notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of the Company's issued ordinary share capital as at 31 May 2005:
Ordinary % of issued 
shares of 1p share 
capital
Framlington Investment Management 4,070,462 12.5%
Robert Francis Charles Cotton 3,968,800 12.2%
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 3,079,500 9.4%
Legal & General Investment Management 1,863,600 5.7%
Henderson Global Investors 1,745,527 5.4%
Credit Suisse Asset Management 1,700,000 5.2%
JP Morgan Fleming Asset Management 1,460,221 4.5%
Old Mutual Asset Managers 1,439,294 4.4%
Policy and practice on payment of creditors
The Group's policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with terms and conditions agreed when orders are placed. Although the Group
does not follow any code or standard on payment policy, where terms have not been specifically agreed, invoices dated in one
calendar month are paid close to the end of the following month. 
At 31 May 2005, the Group had an average of 29 days' purchases outstanding in trade creditors (2004: 40 days). The Company had no
trade creditors as at the year end (2004:  nil).
Equal opportunities and employment policy
The Group is committed to offering equal opportunities to all; no employee or potential employee receives more or less favourable
treatment due to their gender, age, race, national or ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation, or marital status. The Group is committed
to the training and development of all employees and to providing a productive working environment.
Should an existing employee's circumstances change, it is the Group's policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion wherever possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information about the Group has continued through the Group's Intranet, the
regular employee updates and divisional meetings. Employees are actively encouraged to present their suggestions and views on the
Group's performance. A free flow of information between the directors, managers and employees ensures that every person has an
opportunity to contribute ideas to the Group.
The directors present their annual report and
the audited financial statements for the year
ended 31 May 2005.
Principal activity and review of the business
On 29 June 2004 the Company changed 
its name from NCC Group (Holdings) limited
to NCC Group plc and re-registered as a
public company.
The principal activity of the Group is 
the independent provision of IT assurance
through Escrow Solutions, Consultancy and
Testing Solutions to both the public and
private sectors. The level of business and the
year end financial position were satisfactory
and the directors expect the Group to
continue its growth for the foreseeable future. 
The financial results of the Group are shown in
the profit and loss account on page 27.
Dividends
The directors propose a final dividend of 1.75p
per ordinary share which, together with the
interim dividend of 0.75p per ordinary share
paid on 4 March 2005, makes a total dividend
of 2.50p for the year. The final dividend will, if
approved by shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting, be paid on 30 September
2005 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 2 September 2005.
Share capital
Details of the movements of the authorised
and called up share capital of the Company are
set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Directors and their interests
Details of the Company's current directors are
set out on page 14. Directors' interests in
shares and share options in the Company are
detailed in the directors' remuneration report
set out on pages 19 to 22.
The directors who held office during the year
were as follows:
Paul Mitchell - Non Executive Chairman
Rob Cotton - Chief Executive
Paul Edwards - Finance Director
James Wallace - Non Executive Director 
(appointed 14 June 2004)
Eurfyl ap Gwilym - Non Executive Director
(appointed 14 June 2004)
John Walker - Non Executive Director
(resigned 8 July 2004)
All the directors offer themselves up for re-
election at the next AGM on 21 September
2005.
Jon Leigh - 
Director of Escrow Solutions 19 18
Health and safety
The Group strives to provide and maintain a
safe environment for all employees, clients
and visitors to its premises and comply with
the relevant health and safety legislation. The
Group is committed to the wellbeing of 
its employees and actively promotes best
practice in the work place.
The environment
The Group recognises that it is part of the
wider community of employees, clients,
suppliers amongst others and recognises that
it has a responsibility to act in a way that
respects the environment. The Group actively
encourages staff to act in an environmentally
responsible manner, particularly in the
development of recycling and energy
conservation policies to ensure finite
resources are not dissipated.
Political and charitable contributions
The Company is committed to ensuring that 
it acts to help the wider community. We 
have always had strong associations with
charitable organisations and in particular we
aim to support those that have a direct
relevance to our community, our business and
our staff. 
In the year we facilitated giving to the Ronald
McDonald House at Alder Hey and raised in
excess of  6,000. Through events that we
have organised we raised in excess of  13,000
for the provision of nursing care for Manchester's
children's hospitals. We will continue to actively
support the Manchester Children's Hospitals
charity through the coming year. No political
donations were made by the Group during
the year. 
Auditors
KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to
continue in office. Accordingly, in accordance
with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985,
a resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit plc as
the Group's auditor and authorising the
directors to fix the remuneration of the auditor
will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Company's AGM to be held
on 21 September 2005 and details of the
business to be proposed at the AGM together
with explanatory notes appear in a separate
section of these report and accounts. 
By order of the Board.
Rob Cotton
Chief Executive
NCC Group plc
18 July 2005
Directors' report
- continued
As an AIM listed company we are not
required to comply with the provisions of the
Directors Remuneration Report Regulations
2002. Nevertheless, as part of the Group's
commitment to the early adoption of best
practice in corporate governance, strenuous
effort has been made to adhere to 
these provisions.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee advises the
Board and makes recommendations to it
about all elements of the remuneration
packages of the executive directors. The
members of the Remuneration Committee
during the year were Eurfyl ap Gwilym as
Committee Chairman, Paul Mitchell and
James Wallace. The chief executive may
attend the Remuneration Committee by
invitation and assist the Committee with its
considerations. No director is involved in
setting their own remuneration plan.
Remuneration policy
The Committee and the Board believe that 
in order to attract and maintain a senior
management team of the right calibre it is
necessary to provide a competitive market
based remuneration structure which rewards
Group and individual performance. 
Remuneration packages comprise: 
basic salary 
annual performance related bonus 
other benefits 
participation in the share incentive plans
The Group introduced a number of share
incentive schemes on floatation, of which all
members of staff, including the executive
directors are potential beneficiaries.
These include an Employee Share Option
Scheme, a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
and a Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme.
Basic salary
Salaries are normally reviewed annually and
any changes are effective from 1 June in
each year. Pay reviews take into account
Group and personal performance.
Performance related bonuses
The performance related pay scheme for
executive directors is in line with the scheme
covering other senior members of staff.
Payments under the scheme are based upon
the achievement of profit targets for the
Group as set by the Remuneration Committee.
Pensions
The executive directors are entitled to a
company pension contribution of 7% of basic
salary, providing they make a contribution of
not less than 5%, which is paid into the Group
defined contribution pension scheme, which
is also open to all of its permanent employees. 
Benefits
Benefits in kind include the provision of a car
or car allowance, payment of private fuel,
car insurance, private medical insurance, life
assurance and permanent health insurance.
Directors' 
remuneration report
NCC Group charity art auction 
- May 2005
Eurfyl ap Gwilym - 
Non Executive Director