 4_
overview
This year NCC Group plc has delivered its strongest 
performance to date and is reporting a full year for the first 
time as a fully quoted company on the Official List on the 
London Stock Exchange. Yet again, we saw an excellent 
performance from all areas of the Group and in addition 
we completed two acquisitions, further strengthening 
the Group's capability in both Escrow Solutions and 
Assurance Testing.
Overall Group revenues for the year grew by 41% to  35.7m 
(2007:  25.4m). Excluding the acquisitions, the Group showed 
very strong organic growth up 17%. Adjusted operating 
profits increased by 30% to  10.7m (2007:  8.2m). As a 
Group, we continue to generate strong margins, with our 
adjusted operating profit margin remaining strong at 30% 
(2007: 32%) in line with expectations. 
Adjusted pre-tax profits were up 29% to  10.5m (2007:  8.1m) 
and fully diluted adjusted earnings per share increased 33% 
to 22.4p (2007: 16.8p). 
The Group continues to be highly cash generative 
and had only  3.4m net debt at the year end, despite 
meeting the  10.4m cost of two acquisitions out of cash 
resources. Operating cash conversion represented 122% of 
operating profits.
Over the longer term NCC Group has shown consistent, strong 
and reliable growth. Since the Group gained admission to 
AIM in 2004, followed by its switch to the Official List in July 
2007, revenues have grown at a compound annual growth 
rate (CAGR) of over 25%. Adjusted pre tax profits have seen 
a CAGR rate of over 22%. The Group has generated  34m 
of cash from operations before interest, tax and dividends.
 
Total shareholder returns over the four years since flotation 
are 137%. This is not just a testament to a successfully 
implemented strategy exploiting market conditions but also 
to excellent operational management at all levels.
operations
The acquisition of Secure Test in August 2007 was a very 
positive move for us. Not only did it confirm our commitment 
to this market place, but it has proved to be a highly 
successful complementary business. In addition, it has 
allowed us to develop and maintain the largest team of 
accredited Security and Penetration Testers in the UK, as we 
seek to become the leading player in the market.
The acquisition of Escrow Europe had been a long time 
coming and we were delighted to complete the purchase of 
the business in January 2008 after many years of negotiation. 
This acquisition provides us with a strong European base from 
which to operate and strengthens our German business. 
It allows us to grow our multi national customer base by 
providing local agreements and account management in 
culturally aligned ways. 
Our Escrow businesses worldwide have performed very 
well with each country delivering good growth in revenues 
and operating profits. In Escrow Solutions UK, contract and 
beneficiary terminations remained around 10% and net 
new beneficiary growth was 12%. Verification Testing saw 
revenues grow by 26% to  3.0m (2007:  2.4m). 
Escrow Europe, which predominately operates from the 
Netherlands, saw a good first five months of trading under 
our ownership. The business integration is now complete and 
we are actively recruiting Account Managers to grow the 
already substantial but underperforming customer base. Our 
existing German business has grown well on a substantially 
reduced cost base and revenues grew by 21% enabling 
the business to break even. The inclusion of the Escrow 
Europe German renewals base will now allow this business to 
continue growing profitably.
In Assurance Testing, revenues grew by 121% and 
profitability by 127% as the benefits of the acquisitions 
start to be realised. The acquisition of the Secure Test 
business helped our Penetration and Security Testing 
revenues to grow by 139%. Even without the inclusion 
of this acquisition, revenues grew by over 37%, despite  
foregoing over  0.8m of Specialist Testing revenues as we 
withdrew from that area at the start of this financial year.  
Site Confidence's Performance and Load Testing offerings 
saw 226% growth in sales as full year revenues exceeded 
 5.1m and the business delivered a very successful first 
twelve months of our ownership. 
Consultancy had a particularly strong second half to the 
year and improved revenues by 7% year on year despite 
being 5% behind last year's revenues at H1. The benefits of 
being a key provider in the Information Security Standards 
area are now starting to be realised. We continue to provide 
IT consultancy to our client base but have now moved firmly 
away from areas of discretionary expenditure and from our 
historic reliance on the public and local authority sectors of 
the market. Profits improved 1% to over  0.7m (2007:  0.7m) 
as a consequence of our caution in recruitment and our use 
of high quality associate resources, until we are sure that the 
revenue streams are sustainable long term.
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
NCC Group annual report and accounts 2008 _5 _5
corporate governance
NCC Group believes in the highest standards of corporate 
governance and investor relations. We have always 
maintained that for a business such as ours, which acts as 
an independent trusted advisor to its clients, the highest 
standards of corporate governance and application of the 
most prudent accounting standards are essential. 
Our move to the Official List, where compliance and 
adherence to these levels of corporate governance are 
better recognised, has been welcomed by our investors, 
customers and employees alike. We will continue to take 
every practical step to adhere to the revised Combined 
Code, with which we comply fully, and will continue using 
FTSE 250 companies as our benchmark. 
STRONG
AT 30%
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
People
NCC Group remains totally committed to its workforce as 
people are the reason for the Group's continued success. It 
is worth pointing out that the commitment shown from the 
newly acquired businesses has matched that of our existing 
employees and has at times exceeded it.
We believe that our approach to total employee 
remuneration and work-life balance is well judged and is 
essential to ensure staff retention. We believe that our all 
round packages place us in the top quartile of remuneration 
in the locations from which we operate. Our objective is to 
continue with this approach. 
The Group's Board was unchanged although I would like to 
welcome Ken Munro as a director on the Operational Board. 
He has taken responsibility for Sales within our enlarged 
Penetration and Security Testing division, which is branded 
NCC Group Secure Test. Again this reflects our objective 
of recruiting and promoting the best senior managers to 
continue to strengthen the management team to meet 
the Group's growth ambitions. In December 2007 Jane Pink, 
who had been an Operational Director in Assurance Testing, 
retired after 21 years of service.
It is with sadness that we learnt that Bill Kirkwood, one of 
the founders of Site Confidence, died after a lengthy and 
courageous battle against cancer.
Recycled paper 6_
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.75p per 
share which makes a total of 7.00p for the year up 47% (2007: 
4.75p). If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the 
dividend will be paid on 26 September 2008 to shareholders 
on the register at 29 August 2008. The ex-dividend date will 
be 27 August 2008.
outlook
We believe that our strategy of measured acquisitions, allied 
to strong organic growth will allow the Group to continue with 
our ambitious and exciting growth plans despite the widely 
acknowledged deteriorating economic environment. 
The Group's target remains to be the most significant player 
in each of the market niches in which we operate and to 
constantly evolve what we offer. The launch of our 24/7 
Assured security monitoring proposition is a prime example 
of this and it will be a key product for us in the medium term. 
It also fits with our strategy of delivering products and services 
that are not discretionary. 
 
The start to the year sees our Group Escrow Solutions 
renewals at  13.8m, up from  10.5m this time last year, 
and a verification order book of  1.6m which is over  2m 
worldwide. The Assurance Testing businesses' order books 
have improved to  4.6m from  2.2m in 2007 and have 
 3.9m of monitoring renewals forecast for 2008/09. The 
Consultancy business has  2.5m of orders up from  1.8m 
last year. 
We remain committed to the delivery of organic growth in 
all of our businesses worldwide as well as the newly acquired 
operations. The outlook for NCC Group remains good and 
we remain very confident in our ability to deliver good levels 
of sustainable growth.
(continued)
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
We RemAIn commItteD 
to tHe DeLIVeRy oF 
oRGAnIc GRoWtH In 
ALL oF oUR bUsInesses 
WoRLDWIDe
NCC Group annual report and accounts 2008 _7
Paul mitchell
Non Executive Chairman
NCC Group plc
2 July 2008
_7
Recycled paper