 NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the year ended 30 June 2004 was another successful period in the transformation of
Netb2b2.  Your Board is committed to continuing with a strategy that will improve all aspects of the Group and
create significant shareholder value.  Our objective is to make the company a business aggregator, where all Group
companies operate around a common theme of developing and supporting internet-based, business-to-business
infrastructure for their clients.  To this end we have made significant progress during the reported period as outlined
in more detail in the operational review below.
During the year Netb2b2 successfully completed its capital re-organisation, which enabled it to strengthen its
balance sheet by approximately  1.5m.  We also completed our operational restructuring, which was of benefit to
the three core businesses in the Group, particularly Blue Sky.  On the acquisition front, the web hosting business of
ESNA Limited (ESNA Hosting ) was acquired for a total consideration of  317,000 and this has now been
successfully integrated into Blue Sky, benefiting that subsidiary company's performance.  cScape continues to
impress with its performance and a number of new contracts were won.  We have invested in cScape's marketing
and sales infrastructure, to ensure that its growth continues.  ITM Graphics performed satisfactorily showing a year
on year improvement and adding a number of new clients to its already impressive list.  Finally we also created a
new wholly owned subsidiary company called NetPen UK Limited although it did not trade in the year in question.
Financial Results Summary
The Group's overall financial performance for the year is summarised below:
2004
 000
2003
(Restated)
 000
Turnover for group 5,265 5,364
Operating profit /(loss) before goodwill amortisation 1 (854)
Goodwill amortisation - (232)
Net interest paid (24) (40)
           _____   _____
Group loss for the year before tax (23) (1,126)
Taxation - 26
  _____       _____
Group loss for the year after tax       (23)    (1,100)
Overall the Group's financial performance was satisfactory for the year, with a significant improvement in the
Group's overall results, net assets and net cash.
During the year the loss per share on continuing activities was 0.00 pence compared with an adjusted loss per share
of 0.41 pence in 2003.  Net assets rose from  0.2 million in 2003 (as adjusted) to  1.7 million in 2004, a
considerable improvement.  During the period the company strengthened its balance sheet through a series of
placings and other issues of new shares raising a total of  1.5 million.  Our net cash position improved considerably
and stood at  0.3 million at the period end.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2004 although this is
being kept under review for the future. NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
4
Operational Review
I reported at the time of the interims that our three largest operating companies were performing well with increased
turnover, several new contract wins, and a continued focus on higher margin business.  Overall this trend has
continued and our Group companies continue to strengthen their services and products for both public and private
sector organisations.  The public sector has continued to be a great source of revenue for all the companies, and we
expect this to continue.  The formation of NetPen UK and the acquisition of ESNA Hosting, mean that the Group
expanded its operational activities and now consists of four leading technology businesses each of which has
considerable scope for organic growth.
cScape Strategic Internet Services (cScape )
cScape, is one of the UK's leading Microsoft partner firms and a supplier of internet consultancy services, including
e-commerce and web expertise.  During the year the Group significantly increased investment in cScape's marketing
and sales functions and the business has responded well by maintaining profitability and increasing turnover.  As a
result of the investment made in cScape the business is now in a much better position to retain existing business and
importantly to increase substantially the number of new contracts it can win.  This process has already started and a
number of new clients were won, including most recently: in the private sector South East Trains; in the local
authority sector the London Boroughs of Tower Hamlets, Lambeth and Lewisham and in the NHS Whipps Cross
and Worthing Trust. It is very pleasing that in this period of sustained growth cScape has been able to sustain its
excellent reputation for supporting its customers and has retained and grown all its key clients such as the Chartered
Institute of Personnel and Development and the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals.
During the year cScape launched a series of strategic product development initiatives, including a Wizard tool - The
CMS Wizard. Other product initiatives include the development and launch of the MSIB Plus Pack, which marks a
significant advancement in the deployment of websites.  Previously many organisations had no choice but to build
bespoke sites from scratch, but the MSIB Plus Pack allows them to achieve this with minimal deployment, reducing
the need for expensive project management resources.  MSIB enjoys worldwide marketing support from Microsoft
and is expected to have a positive impact on revenues going forward
Overall cScape has successfully used this year to build up experience in, and a track record of, producing
productivity aids, co-operatively marketed with Microsoft and has invested in those areas which will allow it to
accelerate its profitability and growth.
Blue Sky (now incorporating ESNA Hosting)
Blue Sky, a key UK IBM business partner, experienced a year of change during which it moved its business model
away from consulting to higher margin Application Hosting. To help achieve this we announced in March the
acquisition of the web hosting business of ESNA Limited. The business has been successfully integrated into Blue
Sky.
Blue Sky now has leadership positions in creative design implementation on Lotus Domino, as well as the
deployment of Lotus Domino based content management, in the hosting and management of rentable applications
built on Lotus Notes applications, in the deployment of Lotus stand-alone ASP applications for collaboration and in
the fully managed hosting of Lotus Domino servers based on Linux.
The company enjoyed success in winning new business, including contracts with Toyota, ITC Networks, Compass
and IDEA.
ITM Graphics (ITM )
ITM, the Group's publishing services business, also benefited from continued investment in order to sustain
progress and focus the business on higher margin work.  ITM has now evolved into an  integrated web content
management service' and the second stage of development in Netpublish
TM
, based on industry standard software and
support from Silicon Graphics, recently went live. The company now provides a more comprehensive web based
infrastructure and suite of services. To complement its already excellent reputation in mid range pre-press and print
farming activities it is adopting a higher profile colour printing capability to which end ITM is also refurbishing its
marketing and presentation facilities, which should help it to win new contracts.
Overall ITM has a strong and well-established client base including many of the largest publishing houses, the
period saw it consolidate its reputation for the delivery of quality work on time and on budget.  ITM has recently
won new contracts to provide its publishing services to three new publications  London Living',  Stag & Groom'
and Air Cargo News all of which are launch issues from independent publishers. Over and above this it has just
announced a key win with Quantum Business Media, publishers of The Publican and Press Gazette titles. NETB2B2 PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
5
NetPen UK Limited (NetPen UK )
At the very end of our financial year we announced the creation of a new operating company, NetPen UK Limited.
This business has been formed to provide information solutions based around the digital pen and paper (DP&P )
technologies provided by Anoto Group AB of Sweden and Hewlett Packard.  The company targets DP&P solutions
at the media, professional partnerships, public and healthcare sectors.
DP&P solutions are a major breakthrough for the provision of intuitive, highly available and rapid information
acquisition and dissemination. A DP&P based solution uses traditional human data capture tools such as pen and
paper, and captures, converts and stores handwritten data within an organisation's existing information system.
Users of the technology save time by eliminating the need to scan forms and manually re-key data. This reduces the
time taken, for example, to process and store data information from manual form filling and can significantly reduce
costs.
NetPen UK is in the process of developing its relationship with Anoto and Hewlett Packard and will be building
sales momentum with the ambition of commencing to deliver results in the new calendar year.
Current Trading and Outlook
Overall, the financial outlook for the Group remains healthy with cScape continuing to add new contract wins over
the summer, Blue Sky positioned to benefit more fully from the integration of ESNA Hosting and ITM well
positioned for an upturn in pagination. Trading for the current year to date is ahead of the previous corresponding
period. Overall the outlook for the Group continues to improve with all the operating subsidiaries advancing in a
constructive and optimistic way, contributing to Netb2b2's more stable and encouraging position as a whole.
Netb2b2 is now in a position to pursue aggressively value enhancing acquisitions that have, or can easily acquire,
our core values. The continuing improvement in performance of the operating companies provides cash both for
investment in their own future growth but also to help fund such acquisitions.
To such businesses we will add both capacity and capability by providing scale and skill economies.  We will also
add capability to businesses where the skills and operating disciplines of the Group will improve returns for all
shareholders.
Keith Young 6 December 2004
Chairman