 Introduction
2006 was a challenging year for the business prior to its total
transformation on 1 December to focus on becoming the
market leader in the provision of interactive TV gaming. Group
profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 was
 1.7m (2005:  1.8m).
In August 2006, as a result of the challenges facing the
business, your board of directors took the decision to conduct
a detailed review of the business and the options available for
the generation of future growth and development and to
deliver increased shareholder value. Detailed discussions
were conducted over subsequent months and, as a result of
these discussions, a new plan was put forward to the non
executives and the Company's advisors.
The plan to overhaul the business completely - dispose of
assets that showed little growth potential, review loss making
assets, and to acquire assets to facilitate a new direction for
the business - was approved by the Company's non executive
directors and its advisors.
Shareholders agreed that this new strategy should be
adopted and sanctioned the disposal of Stream Live Services
Limited at an extraordinary general meeting (EGM ) on
1 December.
The changes that were implemented on 1 December 2006,
are summarised as follows:
  Martin Higginson appointed to the board as Chairman and
Chief Executive.
  Disposal of Stream Live Services Limited to Gordon
Robson and Michael Spencer for up to  3m. Cash of
 1.5m was received on completion, with up to a further
 1.5m payable over the next two years. It was the board's
opinion that these businesses had limited growth
prospects and, as a result of the sale, the Company is now
able to invest in businesses with greater potential to
generate shareholder value.
  Gordon Robson, founder, Chairman and Chief Executive,
and Michael Spencer, Group Managing Director, stood
down from the board and resigned as executives of the
business. Neither Mr Robson nor Mr Spencer received any
compensation for loss of office, which if payable could, in
aggregate, have amounted to  400,000.
  Acquisition of Vegas247 Limited and Vegas247
Broadcasting Limited - producers of the TV programme
Live Roulette which completed on 1 December. This
initiative gives the business a solid presence in the
interactive TV gaming market. At acquisition, this
business was generating approximately  3.4m of gross
bets per month which has already increased under our
management to  6.9m in the month of March 2007, an
increase of over 100%.
  Instigation of a review of the MChex operation.
  Change of the Company's name to NetPlay TV plc.
Post Balance Sheet Events
In January 2007, the Company acquired the PlayMonday
charity lottery game together with the associated database of
280,000 players. We have utilised the expertise of the Live
Roulette operations to create a TV show for PlayMonday and
this is now produced on a weekly basis. 
In February 2007, the Company acquired Abstract Games
Limited, a company which specialises in interactive print
media based competitions. The Company will use the
marketing and management skills which Abstract brings to
enhance further its Roulette and Lottery businesses.
Furthermore, it will leverage the database of over 500,000
competition players to build player numbers in all areas of
activity.
The review of the MChex operation continues and we are
currently in discussions relating to the possible disposal of
this business. 
Financial overview
During the year ended 31 December 2006, Group turnover
was  12.6m (2005:  13.2m) with profit before tax, profit on
sale of subsidiary, amortisation and share based payment for
the year at  0.8m (2005:  2.2m) and profit before tax of  1.7m
(2005:  1.8m).
The decline in operating profitability was primarily due to a
reduction in mobile revenues attributable to the widely
reported downturn in consumer confidence in the industry
and the resultant increase in regulatory control.
In light of the change in the focus of the Group and the need
to invest in the growth of the new businesses, the directors do
not recommend the payment of a dividend in respect of the
year ended 31 December 2006.
Cash balances at 31 December 2006 were  4.2m (2005:
 3.2m).
Operating Overview
Fixed Line
The detailed review of this business concluded that, whilst
profitable, it showed little prospect for growth. This business
unit was therefore sold to its management leaving the Group
able to focus on new opportunities and to invest in businesses
with a greater potential for the creation of shareholder value.
Mobile
The Group's mobile business consists of NetPlay TV Mobile
Limited (formerly Stream Mobile Limited) and Mobileworkflow
Limited. 
While the mobile business experienced a sharp downturn in
April and May 2006, brought about by damaged consumer
confidence and the consequent increase in regulatory control,
NetPlay TV plc Annual Report 3
Chairman's statement
209251 Netplay pp01-09  3/5/07  18:20  Page 3 volumes stabilised over subsequent months. Media partner
advertising was at a reduced level in the latter months of the
year but with the confirmation of the Group's commitment to
the business, this has now resumed. Revenues generated via
the Vodafone platform have increased month on month over
the last few months. It is the board's intention to continue the
chat business and to incorporate it into its interactive TV
gaming shows over time.
Following a detailed review of costs in this business the board
recently decided to outsource the SMS supervisor and
technical support positions. These costs are now incurred on
a per message basis.
In addition, the Board has renegotiated the Mobileworkflow
acquisition agreement such that a one off payment of
 500,000 is to be made in full settlement of the earn-out
arrangements.
Pan-American Mobile
This US company, together with its subsidiary in Chile, was
acquired in March 2006. The transaction allowed for the
payment of up to  4.4m depending on the results of the
businesses over a three year period. While the company in
Chile operated at about breakeven, the US company
experienced technical problems with some of its services. As
result, the board has decided to exit this market, returning
ownership of the operations to the current management for a
nominal sum and cancelling the earn-out arrangements
under the original agreement.
EGET Partnership
2006 saw little progress in relation to the EGET partnership,
with insignificant revenues generated in the period. The board
believes firmly in the interactive gaming market and the use
of the mobile telephone in this sector. As a result, the
Company has decided to continue its relationship with EGET
on a non exclusive basis. We have also entered into
discussions with a number of other mobile gaming suppliers
in order to explore the opportunity in this sector.
MChex
The MChex business continues to disappoint due to continued
delays in the launch of the mobile banking application.
Although several banks have signed up, the expected
marketing campaigns have yet to be implemented. Operating
losses for the year were  500,000 and continue to run at
 35,000 per month in 2007.
The board is reviewing this business with a view to a potential
sale. The Company is currently in discussions with a potential
acquirer. 
Live Roulette
The board is extremely pleased with its investment in
Vegas247 Limited and Vegas247 Broadcasting Limited. The
businesses have focused over the past few months on
improving both the TV channel and the website
www.liveroulette.com. As a result of this focus, gross
revenues for this business have increased by over 100% since
acquisition, with March 2007 reporting  6.9m of gross bets
against  3.4m for December 2006.
As stated at acquisition, this business has never undertaken
any marketing and it is the belief of the board that, with
appropriate marketing, revenues can be increased
significantly. A test marketing campaign began in April 2007.
Strategy
Your Company has undergone a radical transformation during
the last four months, starting with the sale of the fixed line
business and the departure of both Mr Robson and Mr
Spencer and continuing with the acquisition of the three
businesses over recent months. It is our intention to continue
to implement the newly adopted strategy and to become the
market leader in the provision of interactive TV gaming. 
As we move forward in 2007, the Company is focused on the
development of new interactive TV gaming formats. This year
will see the launch of a fully interactive TV bingo show as well
as the development of the Play Monday  TV lottery show.
Summary
Interactive TV gaming shows significant potential for growth.
NetPlay TV plc is well positioned to carve its own niche in this
marketplace with the production of proprietary TV formats
that can be exported around the world.
We are extremely positive about the future of the business
and the steps we have taken over the past few months. We
firmly believe that the Company is well positioned to take
advantage of the opportunities in this exciting sector.
Martin Higginson
Executive Chairman
4 NetPlay TV plc Annual Report
Chairman's statement (continued)
209251 Netplay pp01-09  3/5/07  18:20  Page 4