 c
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2008
02  
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2008
For the period ended 
31st December 2007
Once again, I am pleased to report another strong Group performance.  The year under review has been 
excellent with substantial growth in all key areas of the business.  The acceleration in growth has been 
driven organically through an increase in employees and their improved performance, as well through 
the successful acquisition of MSB in 2006.  
The results for 2007 reflect the Group's strong performance, with adjusted Earnings per Share* increas-
ing by 38% from 2.53p per share to 3.48p per share.  Basic Earnings per Share has increased by 73% 
from 1.82p to 3.14p.
Trading Review / The Group's scale has increased substantially during 2007 with turnover for the year 
totalling  178m which is a four-fold increase from 2006.  We are now realising the benefits of our focus 
on overseas operations, the investment in our staff and the integration of MSB.  The increase in scale 
has led to greater opportunities within the Group to further enhance our service capabilities and offer-
ings to our staff, candidates and clients.  Our high service capabilities were rewarded during the year by 
a 4-year extension of our Master Vendor Agreement with Unisys.
In addition to the increased trading activity, we continue to broaden in scope, especially with respect to 
the international revenue streams which have resulted in an improved balance to the business.  
In fact, over 34% of the Group's net fee income (gross margins) relates to international placements, with 
20% relating to UK permanent placements, and 46% relating to UK contract business.  
Our international expansion (encompassing offices in Germany, China, South Africa, USA), together 
with our joint venture partners in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Pakistan, Algeria and Iran, provides our ambitious 
staff with excellent opportunities to develop within an international organisation.
During 2007, net fee income increased by 200% to  24.4m. As a result of a change in sales mix due to 
the acquisition of MSB towards the end of 2006, average gross margins totalled 13.7% compared to 
19% in the prior year.  The acquisition resulted in additional revenue streams within the Master Vendor 
and Managed Accounts business areas which typically yield higher volumes and lower margin 
percentages.  In all key business streams margin percentages were generally being maintained with 
some increases being experienced during the last quarter as the steps management put into place to 
focus on higher value business has started to bear fruit.
 The Group has maintained good overhead cost control during the period, resulting in an operating 
profit before amortisation of  6.5m (13 months 2006:  2.3m), representing a conversion ratio of 26.6% 
of net fee income. After accounting for interest on the term loan and our share of profits from our joint 
venture in the Middle East, the Group made a profit before tax of  4.6m, an increase of 90% from the 
 2.4m achieved in 2006.
Chairman's Statement
Chairman's Statement
02  
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2007
For the year ending 
31st December 2007
Once again, I am pleased to report another strong Group performance.  The year under review has been 
excellent with substantial growth in all key areas of the business.  The acceleration in growth has been 
driven organically through an increase in employees and their improved performance, as well through 
the successful acquisition of MSB in 2006.  
The results for 2007 reflect the Group's strong performance, with adjusted Earnings per Share* 
increasing by 38% from 2.53p per share to 3.48p per share.  Basic Earnings per Share has increased by 
73% from 1.82p to 3.14p.
Trading Review
The Group's scale has increased substantially during 2007 with turnover for the year totalling  178m 
which is a four-fold increase from 2006.  We are now realising the benefits of our focus on overseas 
operations, the investment in our staff and the integration of MSB.  The increase in scale has led to greater 
opportunities within the Group to further enhance our service capabilities and offerings to our staff, 
candidates and clients.  Our high service capabilities were rewarded during the year by a 4-year extension 
of our Master Vendor Agreement with Unisys.
In addition to the increased trading activity, we continue to broaden in scope, especially with respect to 
the international revenue streams which have resulted in an improved balance to the business.  
In fact, over 34% of the Group's net fee income (gross margins) relates to international placements, with 
20% relating to UK permanent placements, and 46% relating to UK contract business.  Our international 
expansion (encompassing offices in Germany, China, South Africa, USA), together with our joint venture 
partners in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Pakistan, Algeria and Iran, provides our ambitious staff with excellent 
opportunities to develop within an international organisation.
During 2007, net fee income increased by 200% to  24.4m. As a result of a change in sales mix due to 
the acquisition of MSB towards the end of 2006, average gross margins totalled 13.7% compared to 19% 
in the prior year.  The acquisition resulted in additional revenue streams within the Master Vendor and 
Managed Accounts business areas which typically yield higher volumes and lower margin percentages.  
In all key business streams margin percentages were generally being maintained with some increases 
being experienced during the last quarter as the steps management put into place to focus on higher 
value business has started to bear fruit.
 The Group has maintained good overhead cost control during the period, resulting in an operating profit 
before amortisation of  6.5m (13 months 2006:  2.3m), representing a conversion ratio of 26.6% of net 
fee income. After accounting for interest on the term loan and our share of profits from our joint venture 
in the Middle East, the Group made a profit before tax of  4.6m, an increase of 90% from the  2.4m 
achieved in 2006. c
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2008
03 
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2008
Balance Sheet and Cash Flows / The Group's balance sheet has strengthened during the year and 
reflects the continued good financial performance.  Total assets remain at  43m but net assets have 
increased from  7.6m to  10.6m at the year end.
We continue to focus on maintaining good cash collections, which is evidenced by the positive  4.6m 
of cash generated from operations.  This is particularly pleasing as it is after  3.2m of  payments made 
during 2007 to settle accrued costs and shares from 2006 directly in relation to the acquisition of MSB 
together with 2006 non-recurring provisions for a management restructure and property 
rationalisation.  Despite the increase in trading activities, which ordinarily results in a greater 
working capital requirement, the Group has in fact reduced net borrowings by  2.3m to  18.3m during 
the second half of the year. This has been achieved through improved invoicing and cash collection 
procedures as the Group's back office functions have been merged and improved.
Current Trading and Outlook/Current trading for the Group remains in line with management 
expectations.  Contractor retention in 2008 is higher than previously experienced, reflecting the efforts 
put in by management to improve this area of our service particularly in relation to our international 
business.  We will continue to pursue our strategy of international expansion as well as focusing on 
higher value business within the UK.  We are confident that the Group is well placed to build upon the 
successes of 2007 going forward.
The excellent performance of the Group during 2007 reflects the efforts and capabilities of all of the 
staff throughout the Group and, on behalf of the board of directors and our shareholders I would like 
to thank them for their hard work and dedication.
N R Goodman
Chairman
(*adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments and for management restructuring costs incurred in 2006)
03 
Networkers MSB / Annual Report 2007
In November 2007 the Group rebranded the principal trading name to NetworkersMSB and we are 
currently undergoing a marketing campaign to further raise the profile of the enlarged Group.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flows
The Group's balance sheet has strengthened during the year and reflects the continued good financial 
performance.  Total assets remain at  43m but net assets have increased from  7.6m to  10.6m at the 
year end.
We continue to focus on maintaining good cash collections, which is evidenced by the positive  4.6m of 
cash generated from operations.  This is particularly pleasing as it is after  3.2m of  payments made during 
2007 to settle accrued costs and shares from 2006 directly in relation to the acquisition of MSB together 
with 2006 non-recurring provisions for a management restructure and property rationalisation.  Despite 
the increase in trading activities, which ordinarily results in a greater working capital requirement, the 
Group has in fact reduced net borrowings by  2.3m to  18.3m during the second half of the year. This 
has been achieved through improved invoicing and cash collection procedures as the Group's back 
office functions have been merged and improved.
Current Trading and Outlook
Current trading for the Group remains in line with management expectations.  Contractor retention in 
2008 is higher than previously experienced, reflecting the efforts put in by management to improve this 
area of our service particularly in relation to our international business.  We will continue to pursue our 
strategy of international expansion as well as focusing on higher value business within the UK.  We are 
confident that the Group is well placed to build upon the successes of 2007 going forward.
The excellent performance of the Group during 2007 reflects the efforts and capabilities of all of the staff 
throughout the Group and, on behalf of the board of directors and our shareholders I would like to thank 
them for their hard work and dedication.
N R Goodman
Chairman
(*adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments and for management restructuring costs incurred in 2006).