 I am pleased to report to you on the performance and
progress of the Newport Networks Group PLC
(Newport  or the Company ) for Fiscal Year 2004.
Following an IPO share flotation in London on the AIM
market in May the Company has successfully completed
a number of key milestones.  These include the launch
of the 1460 Session Controller system in July, the signing
of a reseller agreement with Marconi Corporation plc
(Marconi ) in September and attainment of our revenue
goals for the Fiscal Year. Revenues of  336,000 for
2004 were broadly in line with market expectations.
I am pleased to see that the market for the Company's
Session Border Controller systems is being rapidly
established worldwide and that major research houses
are estimating revenues to attain more than $600M
US per annum by 2007 (see below).
Financial Results
Newport was incorporated on 23 March 2004 and
did not trade prior to the acquisition of Newport
Networks Limited on 21 April 2004.  The acquisition
was an exchange of shares with no change in ownership
and we are advised that the acquisition should be
accounted for under the merger accounting rules. This
is a change from the interim accounts which were 
prepared under the acquisition accounting rules. As a
result of the change there is no goodwill included in
the consolidated financial statements.
The loss before tax for the year to 31 December 2004
was  7,381,000, which is in line with market 
expectations and compares to a loss before tax of
 4,510,000 in 2003. 
The loss after taxation for the year to 31 December 2004
was  5,697,000 after taking account of credit for Research
and Development T ax Credits of  1,671,000.   664,000
of the R&D T ax Credit relates to 2003 and this was received
in August 2004. The remaining  1,008,000 relating to
2004 is expected to be received in 2005. In 2004 Newport
invested over  4.7m in Research and Development. 
All expenditure on Research and Development is written off
in the period in which it is incurred.
Cash Position
At year end, 31 December 2004, Newport had cash
balances of  18.9m with no borrowings.
Session Controller Market
The Voice over IP (VoIP) market is demonstrating 
considerable growth as capital expenditures from service
providers are being focused on deployment of Next
Generation Networks (NGN). Investments in NGN
equipment supporting VoIP technologies were estimated
to be $1.2 billion in 2003. This is forecast to grow to
$4.8 billion in 2007, with expenditure in NGN 
equipment forecast to surpass that for legacy 
equipment in 2005 (Infonetics Research, 2004).  This
strong growth in NGN equipment underpins the
Yankee Group (2004) forecasts for the session 
controller market to be an estimated $624 million 
in 2007, growing to $1.2 billion in 2008.
There are also significant market opportunities for the
Newport Networks 1460 Session Controller related to
network operating costs as well as delivering new
NGN VoIP services and applications. The most 
important of these opportunities is the  PSTN
Replacement' opportunity where the major incumbent
operators are looking for VoIP to be a replacement
technology for the legacy network and, in the process,
offer considerable cost reductions in network 
operations.  Publicly announced examples include: 
- BT's 21CN initiative, to replace the PSTN in the UK,
is looking to address 50% of the UK market over
the next 3 years. 
- Telecom Italia's announcement, in January 2005,
discusses the trialling of VoIP & video sharing 
services in early 2005, with full commercial
deployment starting in late 2005.
- SBC's (Southwestern Bell) recent announcement to
roll-out full scale VoIP services over DSL across the 
United States to business and residential customers
during 2005, in parallel to their traditional PSTN 
services.
Chairman's report
4 These are supplemented by opportunities in the  IP
Carrier Interconnect' market, where voice operators
are seeking to interconnect to each other using IP
technologies rather than traditional switched network
solutions.  There is also growing interest in session
controllers from mobile operators who are seeking to
migrate to Third Generation (3G) mobile networks. An
example of this is France Telecom's announcement to
offer a consolidated set of advanced IP-based services
over both fixed line and wireless (Orange).  BT has
also announced a similar concept in collaboration
with Vodafone.
Sales and Support
Following the launch of the 1460 Session Controller in
July the Company has put in place a Sales and
Support infrastructure to drive business growth world-
wide.  The sales structure is based on two main
regions, each headed  by a Vice President and
General Manager. One region covers the Americas,
having Sales and Support headquarters in Dallas,
Texas. Sales offices are located in Denver, Boston,
Miami, Vancouver and Ottawa. The second region
covers Europe & Asia Pacific with Sales and Support
headquarters in the UK. Sales agency offices are
located in Germany, Italy, Hong Kong and China. Our
core sales and support organization is now in place to
deliver revenue objectives for 2005. The sales strategy
for the Company is to use established Network
Equipment Vendors such as Marconi as channels to
market to address the needs of both fixed line and
mobile Service Providers worldwide. 
Marconi
Our relationship with Marconi continues to strengthen
following the signing of a reseller agreement last year.
One of the key benefits of this relationship is that it
drives the development of integrated solutions and
extends our reach geographically well beyond 
opportunities in the UK. 
Marconi has signed several strategic agreements with
key partner companies, including Newport, Sonus,
Huawei, and Mitel enabling them to deliver 
an end-to-end solution to their NGN customers.  
Partnerships
Newport is very active developing network equipment
vendor partnerships with other major channels
throughout the world to address the growing 
requirement for IP session controllers by service
providers. We anticipate making announcements
regarding these relationships throughout 2005.
Establishing major channel partnerships, as with
Marconi, offers the Company opportunities to develop
combined product solutions to meet the particular
needs of service providers and end customers globally. 
5 Interoperability
During 2004, Newport entered into interoperability
testing using a variety of user agents , such as SIP
phones connected through the 1460 Session
Controller to a variety of call agents , such as
softswitches.  These tests cover both access  
applications, where customers are connecting to a
service and peering  applications where connections
are made between Service Providers. Such testing,
along with appropriate software modifications where
necessary, represents a crucial step in the creation of
complete solutions with our channel partners to
address the needs of different types of service
providers. A good example of this is the recently 
certified interoperability for both access and peering
between the 1460 Session Controller and the widely
deployed Broadsoft application server. 
Research and Development
During 2004, the Company has continued to invest in
R&D. We believe that additional investments in R&D
are important to keep pace with the growing demand
for additional functionality in the product line as 
identified through discussions with end customers and
channel partners. Interoperability trials also bring out
the nuances of inter-working with a range 
of equipment as the market for carrier class session 
controllers develops. The understanding of real world
implementations and the ability to address them in a
timely fashion adds enormously to both the value of
the product and the organization. 
Operations
The ongoing strategy of the Company is to out-source
all manufacturing activities to approved Contract
Equipment Manufacturers. The manufacture of major
assemblies for the Session Controller product line has
been contracted to Flextronics. Volume manufacturing
is in keeping with our overall production plan.
Working with such world class suppliers is key to
addressing the quality requirements associated with
the supply of carrier class equipment to Service
Providers around the world.
Marketing
Newport has been actively promoting the 1460
Session Controller product line by participating in
major NGN events and exhibitions around the world.
Recent event participation has included the 3GSM
World Congress in France, Spring VON in San Jose,
California and Telexpo in Brazil. Up-coming events for
early 2005 will include VON Europe in Stockholm,
China VoIP in Beijing and Supercomm in Chicago.
These events provide the opportunity for clients and
investors to see our products and gain a broader
understanding of the overall NGN market space. 
Business Outlook
We are pleased with our progress to date and 
encouraged by the increasing level of interest the
Company has received from potential clients.
Manufacturing is running according to plan and the
Company has many systems in use for testing and 
validation by clients.  We have observed a significant
strengthening in the market for carrier class session
controllers over the last 12 months as service providers
around the world experience rapid expansion of new
IP services, and in particular VoIP . Consequently, we
have built a significant pipeline of sales opportunities
which will accelerate revenues throughout the year in
support of our overall revenue objectives for 2005. 
I am delighted to welcome new shareholders and look
forward to meeting many of you at our Annual
General Meeting.
Sir Terry Matthews OBE
Chairman
15 March 2005
Chairman's report
6