 17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
page 4
2009
Annual Report and Accounts
page 4
Chairman ' s Statement
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 announce	 that,	 following	
a	 challenging	 first	 half,	 the	 Norman	 Hay	
Group	 saw	 a	 significant	 recovery	 in	 the	
second	 half	 of	 2009.
We	 view	 our	 pre-tax	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 as	 an	 extremely	
satisfactory	 result.
Our	 full	 year	 result	 includes	 profit	 on	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	
remaining	 wet	 processing	 operations	 on	 our	 Coventry	
City	 Centre	 site,	 as	 reported	 in	 our	 interim	 statement.	
This	 is	 a	 profit	 on	 sale	 of	  862,000	 on	 a	 deferred	
consideration	 basis,	 after	 taking	 into	 account	 the	 direct	
costs	 of	 the	 disposal.
The	 cost	 reduction	 programme	 we	 undertook	 in	 the	 first	
half	 of	 2009	 mitigated	 the	 effects	 of	 a	 downturn	 in	 global	
trading.	 Additionally,	 revenue	 in	 the	 second	 half	 rose	 by	
11%	 compared	 to	 the	 first	 half.
Our	 exposure	 to	 the	 economic	 downturn	 in	 the	 UK	
was	 limited	 by	 the	 international	 diversification	 of	 our	
product-led	 businesses.	 In	 addition,	 our	 impregnation	
sealants	 and	 construction	 chemicals	 companies	 now	
generate	 the	 majority	 of	 their	 business	 overseas,	 as	 will	
the	 engineering	 business	 in	 2010	 and	 2011.
Our	 surface	 coatings	 division,	 in	 which	 most	 business	
units	 are	 UK-based,	 requires	 its	 operations	 to	 be	 sited	
geographically	 close	 to	 its	 customers	 because	 of	 the	
sub-contract	 nature	 of	 its	 business.	 It	 has	 therefore	 been	
significantly	 affected	 by	 the	 severe	 downturn	 in	 UK	
manufacturing.	
However,	 we	 have	 successfully	 won	 business	 from	
competitors	 who	 have	 struggled	 in	 the	 recent	 financial	
climate.	
Also,	 following	 the	 successful	 example	 of	 our	 overseas	
product-based	 divisions,	 we	 are	 in	 the	 process	 of	 building	
an	 international	 market	 for	 our	 sub-contract	 coatings	
businesses	 with	 operations	 recently	 opening	 up	 and	
developing	 in	 Malaysia,	 Australia	 and	 mainland	 China.
Dividends
A	 second	 interim	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 of	 2.3p,	
announced	 on	 2	 March	 2010,	 was	 paid	 to	 shareholders	
on	 26	 March	 2010	 in	 place	 of	 a	 final	 dividend	 for	 the	 year,	
making	 the	 total	 for	 the	 full	 year	 4.3p	 (2008:	 4.0p).
It	 is	 intended	 that	 future	 dividend	 payments	 will	 be	 paid	
in	 line	 with	 the	 normal	 dividend	 schedule.
Business Overview 
Ultraseal	 -	 Impregnation	 Sealants	
Despite	 the	 challenges	 facing	 the	 global	 automotive	
industry,	 Ultraseal	 International	 was	 the	 largest	
contributor	 to	 Group	 profits	 during	 the	 year.
The	 main	 effect	 of	 the	 downturn	 in	 general	 for	 this	 sector	
was	 the	 cancellation	 or	 delay	 of	 major	 projects.	 This	
resulted	 in	 a	 very	 low	 order	 book	 for	 capital	 equipment,	
although	 consumable	 sealant	 sales	 were	 affected	 to	 a	
lesser	 degree.
Despite	 this,	 the	 business	 still	 managed	 to	 trade	
profitably	 in	 the	 first	 half	 of	 the	 year	 and	 saw	 an	
excellent	 recovery	 in	 the	 second	 half	 as	 demand	
began	 to	 recover	 in	 the	 USA.	 Also	 Chinese	 automotive	
manufacturing	 returned	 to	 significant	 levels	 of	
production,	 which	 is	 particularly	 positive	 for	 our	
operation	 in	 Shanghai.	
We	 expect	 these	 trends	 to	 continue	 in	 2010.
Armourcote -	 Surface	 Coatings
Overall,	 the	 second	 half	 of	 2009	 was	 less	 profitable	 than	
the	 first	 half	 as	 a	 result	 of	 weakened	 demand	 from	 the	 oil	
&	 gas	 sector	 as	 many	 major	 projects	 were	 delayed.
Our	 Hi-Tech	 Coatings	 operation	 in	 Perth,	 Western	
Australia,	 reported	 a	 small	 loss	 for	 the	 year.	 This	 was	
primarily	 due	 to	 the	 costs	 associated	 with	 a	 management	
restructure	 in	 2009,	 and	 trading	 in	 the	 first	 quarter	 of	
2010	 has	 been	 encouraging.	
Our	 operation	 in	 Port	 Klang,	 Malaysia,	 which	 we	 opened	
in	 late	 2007,	 has	 seen	 a	 great	 improvement	 year	 on	 year,	
and	 will	 benefit	 from	 new	 levels	 of	 capital	 investment	 in	
the	 oil	 extraction	 industries	 in	 that	 region.
Both	 our	 Australian	 and	 Malaysian	 coating	 facilities	
are	 now	 accredited	 to	 ISO	 9001/2008	 and	 ISO	 14001,	
which	 are	 important	 factors	 in	 our	 relationship	 with	
multinational	 suppliers	 to	 the	 oil	 &	 gas	 industry.	
We	 are	 generally	 the	 preferred	 supplier	 of	 the	 advanced	
surface	 coatings	 used	 by	 the	 oil	 &	 gas	 industry	 to	 protect	
the	 sophisticated	 drilling,	 production	 and	 transmission	
equipment	 utilised	 to	 harvest	 hydrocarbons	 from	 all	 over	
the	 world	 in	 the	 harshest	 of	 conditions	 and	 extremes	 of	
climate.
Our	 automotive	 surface	 coatings	 business	 in	 the	 UK	 also	
suffered	 in	 the	 downturn.	 Despite	 having	 centralised	 all	
zinc	 and	 alloy	 electroplating	 onto	 one	 site	 in	 Coventry	
during	 2008,	 the	 conditions	 in	 UK	 manufacturing	 proved	
to	 be	 so	 severe	 that	 we	 continued	 to	 suffer	 significant	
operating	 losses	 in	 the	 business.
We	 undertook	 a	 substantial	 restructure	 and	 cost	
reduction	 programme	 at	 our	 Coventry	 operation	 in	 2009	
and	 the	 unit	 is	 trading	 considerably	 better	 than	 at	 this	
time	 last	 year.	
ASTEC	 Dalian	 in	 Eastern	 China	 performed	 well	 and	
profitably	 in	 2009.	 The	 future	 for	 this	 business	 looks	
promising,	 on	 the	 back	 of	 a	 recovering	 US	 automotive	
market	 and	 the	 continuing	 expansion	 of	 the	 Chinese	
domestic	 automotive	 market.
We have successfully won business 
from competitors who have struggled 
in the recent financial climate

  17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
page 5
2009
Annual Report and Accounts
TAM International	 -	 Construction	 Chemicals	
We	 have	 made	 significant	 progress	 in	 developing	 our	
construction	 chemicals	 business	 in	 the	 three	 years	 that	
we	 have	 controlled	 TAM.	
During	 that	 time,	 we	 have	 built	 TAM	 into	 a	 well-respected	
brand	 leader	 in	 construction	 chemicals	 and	 broadened	 its	
potential	 marketplace	 with	 the	 creation	 of	 a	 Tunneling	 &	
Mining	 division.	 This	 now	 supplies	 our	 niche	 products	 to	
many	 of	 the	 major	 underground	 projects	 in	 the	 regions	
where	 we	 already	 have	 sales	 or	 manufacturing	 operations.	
The	 business	 performed	 better	 in	 the	 second	 half	 of	 the	 year,	
although	 not	 all	 locations	 are	 yet	 profitable	 at	 the	 operating	
level.	 This	 is	 a	 result	 of	 major	 infrastructure	 projects	 being	
delayed	 in	 Hong	 Kong	 and	 Taiwan	 and	 difficult	 economic	
conditions	 continuing	 to	 prevail	 in	 the	 UK.
Australia	 was	 less	 affected	 by	 the	 global	 economic	
recession	 and	 this,	 coupled	 with	 strengthening	 the	
management	 team,	 saw	 the	 TAM	 Australia	 business	
return	 to	 profit	 in	 the	 year.
Norman Hay Engineering	 -	 Chemical	 Process	 Plant
Following	 a	 strong	 performance	 in	 2009	 with	 continuing	
profitability,	 the	 year	 ended	 with	 a	 record	 order	 book,	
which	 will	 provide	 substantial	 growth	 for	 the	 business	
during	 2010	 and	 2011.
As	 a	 manufacturer	 of	 bespoke	 process	 plants,	 primarily	
for	 the	 aerospace	 and	 automotive	 markets,	 our	 chemical	
engineering	 group	 combines	 elements	 of	 both	 service-
related	 and	 product-led	 businesses.
As	 such,	 we	 have	 been	 able	 to	 develop	 the	 business	
internationally,	 with	 the	 majority	 of	 plant	 installations	 in	
the	 next	 two	 years	 being	 outside	 of	 the	 UK.	 This	 makes	
Norman	 Hay	 Engineering	 the	 latest	 of	 our	 businesses	 to	
benefit	 from	 our	 expansion	 into	 international	 markets.
During	 2009,	 we	 were	 awarded	 a	 number	 of	 significant	
overseas	 contracts:
 In	 March	 we	 were	 selected	 to	 supply	 and	 install	 a	
large	 Repair	 and	 Overhaul	 facility	 for	 aircraft	 landing	
gear	 in	 Saudi	 Arabia.
 In	 May	 we	 secured	 a	 major	 contract	 in	 Turkey	 for	
an	 NDT	 booth	 system	 to	 carry	 out	 dye	 penetrant	
application	 and	 inspection	 at	 the	 critical	 stage	 in	 the	
repair	 and	 overhaul	 of	 aircraft	 engines.
 In	 December	 we	 were	 proud	 to	 be	 awarded	 our	
largest	 ever	 single	 contract	 -	 an	 order	 from	
Rolls-Royce	 for	 process	 plant	 and	 equipment	 to	
be	 installed	 in	 Singapore	 during	 2011.
Staff
I	 would	 like	 to	 pay	 tribute	 to	 all	 of	 our	 Group	 staff,	 who	
have	 been	 operating	 under	 considerable	 pressure	 while	
our	 businesses	 have	 been	 adjusting	 to	 changing	 world	
economic	 conditions.	
Their	 professionalism,	 dedication	 and	 flexibility	 has	
been	 instrumental	 in	 recovering	 the	 Group's	 operating	
profitability	 in	 a	 short	 period	 of	 time.
O u tlook
In	 last	 year's	 annual	 statement,	 I	 said	 that	
our	 efforts	 were	 being	 carefully	 targeted	 at	
our	 most	 significant	 sales	 opportunities.	
TAM	 International,	 our	 construction	
chemicals	 division,	 has	 been	 working	
closely	 in	 2009	 with	 the	 Normet	 Group,	
manufacturers	 of	 specialist	 underground	
construction	 machinery.	 This	 co-operation	
has	 led	 to	 a	 E6.2	 million	 machinery	 deal	 in	
Hong	 Kong,	 combined	 with	 the	 supply	 of	
construction	 chemicals.	 A	 similar	 deal	 has	
also	 been	 arranged	 in	 Taiwan	 and	 we	 plan	 to	
build	 further	 on	 this	 successful	 partnership	
in	 other	 markets.	
The	 synergies	 between	 TAM	 and	 Normet	 led	
to	 the	 formation	 of	 a	 global	 partnership	 in	
April	 2010,	 with	 Normet	 acquiring	 40%	 of	
the	 issued	 share	 capital	 of	 TAM.	 Normet's	
global	 reach	 and	 expertise	 will	 enable	 us	 to	
rapidly	 expand	 TAM's	 client	 base.	 We	 believe	
this	 significant	 move	 will	 be	 beneficial	 for	
the	 Group,	 our	 clients	 and	 our	 shareholders.	
We	 are	 particularly	 pleased	 with	 the	
progress	 and	 prospects	 for	 our	 Ultraseal	 and	
Armourcote	 businesses	 as	 the	 market	 in	
mainland	 China	 continues	 to	 pick	 up.	
I	 expect	 that	 the	 Group's	 trading	
performance	 will	 continue	 to	 improve	
and	 will	 be	 further	 enhanced	 as	 the	 world	
economy	 returns	 to	 growth.
Peter L Hay
Chairman
19	 May	 2010 2009
Annual Report and Accounts
17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
page 6
 4.0m
In	 Q1	 2009,	 we	 successfully	 secured	 a	
 4m	 contract	 for	 an	 aerospace	 process	
facility	 to	 be	 installed	 in	 the	 Kingdom	
of	 Saudi	 Arabia.
The	 new	 chemical	 processing	 shop	 for	
Messier	 Services	 is	 for	 the	 repair	 and	
overhaul	 of	 aircraft	 landing	 gears	 for	
both	 narrow	 and	 wide	 bodied	 aircraft.
This	 turnkey	 project	 includes	 all	 process	
tanks	 and	 solution	 conditioning	
equipment,	 material	 handling	 and	
effluent	 treatment	 systems,	 as	 well	 as	
providing	 ongoing	 service	 support.