 B BUIL L LDIN NG G G O ON N EX X XPE ER R RIE EN NC CE E
3
North Midland Construction PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman's Statement
In spite of the continual downturn in construction activity  
during the year, it is gratifying to be able to report that the  
Group returned to profitability. A profit before tax of  0.71 million  
(2011:  0.78 million loss) was delivered on a revenue increased 
by 1.0% to  168.9 million. Margins remain extremely tight and 
tender opportunities are scarce, but the Group's diversity of 
capability across the whole construction sector has held it in  
good stead.
During the year the minority interest in the Nomenca subsidiary 
was purchased and this has enabled an element of restructuring 
to take place, which will produce a reduction in cost and more 
focus on key delivery areas.
A detailed breakdown of the performance of the individual Group 
divisions and subsidiary is provided below.
Building & Civil Engineering
Due to the losses previously incurred in the Building subsidiary  
and the prevailing constraints in the market, it was decided to 
merge the non-water civil engineering business with the Building 
subsidiary into one PLC division. The major building project being 
undertaken, which resulted in major losses for the Building 
subsidiary in the last financial year, unfortunately suffered further 
delays to the programmed completion date with consequent cost 
overruns. This project will not now be completed until later in 2013. 
A significant claim for losses incurred on this particular contract is 
currently being pursued, but will not be able to be concluded until 
after completion. This problematical contract has had a significant 
further impact on the results of the division, but the overall loss has 
been reduced to  0.19 million (2011:  3.17 million) on revenue 
increased by 17.0% to  60.88 million (2011:  52.03 million). The 
building market in particular continues to be very difficult and 
extremely tight credit conditions, coupled with poor market 
confidence, have restricted the number of developer promoted 
projects. Only building projects of discernible risk in core areas of 
expertise are currently being considered. However, during the year 
the division has been successful in securing new clients such as 
Mars Petcare and seven frameworks in the power sector. A major 
project in Sleaford for Danish company BWSC A/S for the 
construction of a power station generating energy from the 
incineration of straw is progressing well.
Highways
Cutbacks in public expenditure had a major impact on the 
performance of the Highways division during the year. Success, 
both in geographical expansion and securing new clients such as 
Bath and North East Somerset District Council has continued,  
but expenditure on existing frameworks was severely curtailed. 
This resulted in revenue declining by 32.5% to  12.71 million  
(2011:  18.84 million) with a consequent decline in profitability of 
83.0% to  0.14 million (2011:  0.84 million). It is unlikely that 
public expenditure on highways will significantly increase in the 
foreseeable future and, therefore, for the division to prosper going 
forward costs must be reduced and new clients secured. Senior 
Executive Directors in both the Highways and Utilities divisions 
have indicated their desire to retire in the current financial year 
and, therefore, it has been decided to merge the two divisions, 
operating in the future as two work streams under one senior 
management team. This was effected from 1 January 2013. As 
previously mentioned, success has been achieved in securing 
new clients, with an award to construct car parks for Transport for 
Manchester being a particular example.
Utilities
Activity in the telecommunications sector suffered a serious 
decline during the year and this had a major impact on the Utilities 
division. This coupled with price erosion on the existing term 
contracts and extremely tight margins resulted in the division 
becoming loss-making for the year. Revenue declined by 49.5% 
to  16.25 million (2011:  32.20 million) and a loss of  0.50 million 
(2011:  0.60 million profit) was recorded.
Activity in the sector remains low and the division has been 
restructured and merged with the Highways division to realign  
the cost base to the current prevailing market. The existing term 
contract with Cable & Wireless Worldwide has recently been 
renewed and a term contract for Vodafone secured, along with 
utility work on the Nottingham Tram Extension. Existing term 
contracts are being undertaken for B.T., Carillion/Telent, Electricity 
North West and KCom.
NMCNomenca
The division delivered an enhanced performance over the previous 
year on increased revenue. Both the revenue and profit have been 
incorporated equally into the Nomenca subsidiary and the Building 
& Civil Engineering division. As the minority shareholding in 
Nomenca has now been purchased, effected from 1 January 2013, 
NMCNomenca will operate as an individual division with both profit 
and revenue being reported as a separate segment. The existing 
framework for Severn Trent Water continues to deliver successfully 
and the division has recently been awarded further opportunities in 
the Southern Area, which will result in increased revenues of 
between  6- 10 million per annum.  EV VOL L VIN NG G EN NV VIR R RO ONM M ME E EN NT TS S
4
North Midland Construction PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman's Statement
(continued)
The E5 consortium continues to make headway on the  
 200 million programme of major projects for Severn Trent Water 
and although there is still a long way to completion, the projected 
outturn is encouraging. The original concept of an integrated 
water business providing clients with a full turnkey capability has 
delivered exceptional service. To expand on this capability the 
existing frameworks for Anglian Water previously undertaken 
individually by both Nomenca and the Building & Civil Engineering 
division have now been transferred into NMCNomenca.
Nomenca
The mechanical and electrical subsidiary continues to benefit  
from escalating expenditure by the water industry on the AMP5 
programme. Revenue increased 23.3% to a record  79.09 million 
(2011:  64.16 million) with profitability climbing by 28.4% to  
 1.32 million (2011:  1.03 million). The outlook for the business  
is encouraging with 32 No. frameworks currently being serviced 
from the regional office network.
As the company grows, higher value and more technically 
complex projects are being successfully undertaken. A particular 
example of this is the  20 million contract for J Murphy & Sons 
Ltd at Deephams, a Thames Water plant in London, where 
complex large capacity pipework and pumping equipment is 
being installed into deep structures.
The company has recently been successful in winning capital 
maintenance frameworks for United Utilities in the North West for 
a potential duration of 10 years with a projected total expenditure 
of  300 million.
Mr D Bleakley
Doug Bleakley expressed his desire to retire from both the 
chairmanship of Nomenca Ltd and from the Board, effective from 
21 March 2013. He has been replaced by Andy Langman, the 
current Managing Director of Nomenca Ltd, who has worked for 
the Group for 15 years.
Doug Bleakley was one of the founder members of Nomenca and 
it is testament to his hard work and strategic vision that Nomenca 
has grown to be a significant presence in the water industry. He 
has also made a major contribution to the Board.
We all wish him a long, happy and well deserved retirement.
Non-Financial Performance
In the prevailing increasingly competitive environment with every tender 
opportunity being pursued by numerous companies, it is essential that 
non-financial performance is maintained at the highest level.
A vigorous Health & Safety culture is a pre-requisite and it is 
gratifying to report that the British Safety Council 4 star rating has 
been retained, along with the ROSPA Gold standard throughout 
the Group. The overall accident rate continues to be considerably 
below the national average and a major point of focus for the last 
year, has been collaboration with the supply chain to harmonise 
its performance. The Group was also the recipient of six national 
awards for environmental performance during the year.
The attraction, development and retention of high quality 
employees are of paramount importance to the Group. The Staff 
Stability Index of 87.40% is impressive. In spite of the difficult 
economic conditions, the focus has to be to the future and both 
the graduate and apprenticeship programmes have been 
maintained, along with the levels of training. 2,940 training days 
were undertaken during the year, equating to an average of  
2.92 days per employee (2011: 2.19).
The Board is committed to improving the Group's performance 
year on year and takes its responsibility very seriously. The Group 
is a member of the Business In The Community. Last year's 
performance and data are detailed in the CSR report.
Financing
The Group's credit facilities continue to remain adequate for the 
foreseeable future. Cash at the year end stands at  5.07 million 
(2011:  9.23 million), which is an outflow from the previous year 
of  4.16 million. This is largely due to the cash outflow on the 
major problematical building contract.
Outlook
The secured order book for the current financial year is circa  
 130 million and this excludes the recent capital maintenance 
framework that has been awarded to Nomenca by United  
Utilities. This coupled with the restructuring and cost reduction 
programme already implemented, gives the Board the confidence 
to recommend the final dividend at 3.0 pence per share, making a 
total of 4.5 pence for the year.
Robert Moyle
Chairman
28 March 2013
 