 OVERVIEW
NORTHERN PETROLEUM PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
Chairman's Statement
It has been an active year of exploration 
drilling, production enhancement and 
production testing operations, and the 
recognition of a major upgrading of 
prospectivity in the Southern Adriatic Sea. 
The need to increase levels of production 
to meet strategic forecasts was recognised 
and several material developments are 
now possible in the coming months. 
A decision has been taken that the 
Company is prepared to sell some assets 
and to focus upon new opportunities 
to achieve faster production growth.
After a detailed researching of several 
alternatives for additional opportunities to 
achieve production targets quicker, Alberta 
was selected. A licensing start has been 
made in the north west of Alberta at a low 
acquisition cost. A proving programme 
of three to ve well interventions will take 
place this summer to establish details for 
a more extensive programme in the winter 
season of 2013-2014. This larger programme 
will be made possible and be committed 
to subject to a sale, at a satisfactory price, 
of all or part of the interests held in The 
Netherlands for which we have received 
approaches and is now at the letter of 
intent stage with one of the parties.
The licences in The Netherlands were acquired 
for no cost, we brought four elds into 
production, added two new elds, realised 
substantial cash proceeds from three 
signi cant partial asset sales and have now 
almost fully recovered capital investment, 
at an uplifted value, through production 
revenue. Although Northern has successfully 
developed, operated and bene tted from 
these assets, and in time greater production 
can be achieved, we believe it is now the 
right time for us to reposition this part of 
our business to another region.
The timely trading of assets at the right price 
is our business strategy. This move will enable 
entry into a faster, greater cash generative 
arena and replaces the cash ow from 
The Netherlands so that we continue to 
help fund other more exciting activities. 
Part of the proceeds from a Netherlands 
sale would be invested in Alberta, contingent 
on successful and encouraging results from 
the 2013 summer programme. The current 
letter of intent provides that without recourse 
to its existing nancial resources, Northern 
will retain future bene ts in The Netherlands 
in certain potential exploration successes, in 
a eld development and the shale oil potential. 
Until the issue of fraccing unconventional 
reservoirs becomes clearer, minimal resources 
will be spent upon the last of these.
Alberta offers the availability of unencumbered 
new leases, relative ease of operation, a 
competitive cost structure and a de ned 
scope for expansion. We have considerable 
Canadian experience within our Board and 
key staff have been hired to rapidly develop 
this project. Between January and March 
2013, Canadian Crown leases were acquired 
covering 9,300 acres, at a direct cost of 
CAD 711,000 or approximately  0.5 million.
It is estimated that there were 56 million 
barrels of oil originally in place on these 
leases, from which the average recovery 
to date has been 20%. The Company is 
undertaking a full reservoir engineering 
examination of the potential to increase 
the recovery from known oil in place in 
well-de ned reef structures. This coming 
summer, on leases with all season access, 
a pilot project will be undertaken on three 
to ve selected wells at an estimated total 
cost of CAD 1.5 million or approximately 
 1.2 million. This is being carried out to 
establish additional recovery levels and will 
provide operational experience, before 
commitment is made to a larger winter 
programme of operations.
There has been an exciting new development 
in the potential of our exploration efforts 
in the Southern Adriatic as a result of newly 
available well data from Eni's producing oil 
 eld, Aquila. The Cygnus prospect, within 
the Group's adjacent permit, has been shown 
to be an up-dip continuation of this eld, 
following the interpretation of seismic data, 
combined with this new well information.
R H R Latham  
Chairman NORTHERN PETROLEUM PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08
Italy Operational Review
page 12
ITALY
La Tosca
Northern made an application for this onshore licence in 2002 and it was 
awarded in 2005. An initial farm out was made with Stratic nergy 
in 200 , but they withdrew in 2008. Complimentary D seismic coverage 
on the Southern part of the permit was received from Stogit in 2009 
enabling the remapping and upgrading of the La Tosca prospect.
 rca xploration farmed in into this prospect in 2010 agreeing to pay all 
budgeted costs of a well that commenced in August 2012 with Northern 
retaining a 0 interest.
The well reached a total depth of 2, 5m on 27 August and although 
gas shows were encountered, a decision was made to plug and abandon. 
 n eeping with the Company s strategy of managing ris and nancial 
exposure, Northern's cost in the project was minimal.  OVERVIEW
NORTHERN PETROLEUM PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
The mapping of the Cygnus prospect and 
Aquila Field may therefore have a combined 
resource of recoverable oil close to a billion 
barrels of which 80% is within Northern's 
permit. Not surprisingly this has resulted in 
a considerable positive response to the 
farm-out process. This has coincided with 
an encouraging move from the Italian 
government which has now designated oil 
and gas as an important part of Italy's 
economic future. 
Offshore French Guiana, the four well 
exploration programme alongside Shell, 
Total, Tullow and Wessex to follow up the 
2011 Zaedyus oil discovery is continuing 
apace. The province is very exciting and 
continues to have high potential. This was 
an undrilled exploration play and for a 
discovery to have been made by the rst 
wildcat well is exceptional. The drillship 
remains on the licence to drill the next 
two wells. The exploration teams from 
all of the partner companies are building 
a unique understanding of the oil system 
and are working hard to re ne the current 
programme, which may extend beyond 
the end of 2013.
Following the Zaedyus oil discovery, the 
Northern exploration team was strengthened 
to bring in experience from comparable 
exploration projects in West Africa. This has 
enabled the identi cation of similar exploration 
opportunities in unlicensed areas in suitable 
countries where low cost entry can be made. 
Three such opportunities have been identi ed. 
One application has already been made, 
another may be made shortly pending 
examination of further data and one is 
awaiting a future licensing round in 2014 
or 2015. With this re-positioning of our 
future exploration activities, careful control 
over resources will be maintained so as 
to achieve greater and faster success.
Experience has also been gained in 
understanding shale oil plays as we examine 
the potential in the West Netherlands basin. 
This has led to the seeking of new 
opportunities and the identi cation 
and application for licences elsewhere 
in the world.
On behalf of the Board, I report that the 
total revenue for the Group in 2012 was 
 12.4 million 2011:  24.5 million . Annual 
production net to Northern was 0.32 million 
barrels of oil equivalent 2011: 0.58 million 
or 886 barrels of oil equivalent per day, 
including deemed production from P12. 
The average volume-weighted gas sales 
price achieved was  0.29 per normal cubic 
metre or approximately US$10 per thousand 
standard cubic feet. The results for the 
Group for the year show a loss before tax 
of  0.5 million compared with a pro t 
before tax of  10.5 million for the prior year. 
The basic loss per share is 1.6 Euro cents, 
compared to earnings of 6.7 Euro cents in 
2011. The Group nished the year with a 
cash position of  22.5 million of cash on 
the balance sheet 31 December 2011: 
 29.8 million .
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the management and staff for their hard 
work and the loyalty of our shareholders. 
We have put in place a plan to improve our 
communications and as a business we are 
moving in the right direction to successfully 
deliver on our strategy.
To brie y summarise:
 we look forward to being able to 
explore, with partners, the huge 
potential in the Southern Adriatic;
 we remain excited about French Guiana 
where activity continues apace with 
good partners to prove up a major new 
oil province; 
 we look forward to establishing oil 
production in Alberta and expanding 
upon it; 
 we look forward to successfully 
increasing exploration activity from 
working on new areas where ground 
 oor licensing is in progress and 
bringing in partners to exploit the 
identi ed potential; and
 importantly, we look forward to being 
able to repay the faith our shareholders 
have had in us and for the market to 
appreciate the true value of our Company.
R H R Latham 
Chairman of the Board
14 May 2013
Chairman's Statement continued