 2 Chairman's statement
Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman's statement  Despite the economic downturn the Group has retained a strong, 
market leading position in both the UK and Spain, and has delivered 
earnings growth in line with the Board's expectations. Underlying 
cash generation in 2011 was  99m leaving net debt at  530m, which 
we expect to fall further in 2012. This, combined with the debt 
refinancing completed during the year, leaves the Group with an 
appropriate and robust capital structure. 
Against a background of continuing 
economic uncertainty in the countries in 
which we operate, I am pleased to report 
that the Group has made further progress 
with the restructuring of our UK and  
Spanish operations that commenced in 
summer 2010. 
The focus of the Group will be to maintain 
utilisation in excess of 90%, improve 
operating efficiency to reduce costs  
and concentrate on increasing the return 
on capital employed (ROCE) above  
levels previously achieved. Against all  
of these measures we have delivered 
improvements in the past year.
The Group's financial results for the year 
ended 30 April 2011 are summarised  
as follows:
  Underlying profit before tax
2
 increased 
by 47% to  53.8m (2010 -  36.5m);
  Underlying basic earnings per share
3
of 29.0p (2010 - 26.8p), based on 
shares of 133 million (2010 - 105 
million);
  Net debt
4
 reduced by  68.4m to 
 529.9m;
  ROCE
7
 11.9% (2010 - 8.4%); and
  Statutory profit before tax increased  
to  26.5m (2010 -  9.6m).
The successful refinancing in April 2011  
was another milestone in the Group's 
progress as it was able to access new 
capital and secures its financial base for 
the medium term. At 30 April 2011 we 
had  225m headroom on our committed 
debt facilities of  781m
9
. Net debt to 
EBITDA
6
 has come down to 1.7x (2010 - 
2.0x) and all covenant measures improved 
over the year as a result of  99m of 
underlying cash generation
10
. Net debt 
was reduced by  68m during the year,  
as the Group continued to strengthen  
its balance sheet and position itself  
for any sustained improvement in  
market conditions.
We now have a strong management  
team in Spain and are developing our  
team in the UK by a mixture of internal 
promotion and external recruitment where 
necessary. This has stabilised the business. 
Management in both countries are now 
working effectively to maximise returns.
In the past few years sales have grown  
as a result of chasing volume at lower prices. 
We have ceased this practice and as a  
result we have lost some customers. We are 
seeking to replace this business with sales  
to customers who are attracted to our 
flexible renting model.
In both the UK and Spain our market is  
the flexible renting of vehicles. As we get 
improved data we will be better able to 
judge the size of the opportunity that exists 
for future expansion.
UK
Our underlying operating margin
11
 
increased to 22.0% in the year, compared  
to 18.0% in 2010 and utilisation rates have 
remained in line with targeted levels at 90% 
(2010 - 90%
8
). The increase in operating 
margin has been achieved through  
our actions aimed at improving operating 
efficiency, increasing hire rates and the 
continued strength in the residual prices  
for used vehicles.
During the year, the model of 20 separate 
companies with their own brands and 
management structure was initially replaced 
with 12 business areas operating under one 
Northgate Vehicle Hire brand. In line with 
original plans, the 12 areas were further 
reduced to seven regions in May 2011 
providing the platform for a consistent  
and improved customer service and 
operational efficiencies.
The rebranding exercise was completed 
successfully providing the UK with a 
nationally recognised single brand. Brand 
development will continue to ensure that  
we are recognised as the market leader in 
light commercial vehicle hire in the UK.  
Our main rebranding focus has been vehicle 
livery on our own fleet, with c.15,000 
vehicles now liveried in the Northgate 
Vehicle Hire branding.
I am pleased to report that the new  
IT system has finally been successfully 
implemented across the UK. As envisaged 
this is already providing enhanced 
information about the profitability of  
our activities, processes and services. 
Bob Mackenzie 
Chairman
A number of significant initiatives have 
commenced during the year, which include:
  Improving the operational efficiency and 
productivity of our 53 workshops;
  Driver logistics management - planning 
and control of the collection and delivery 
of vehicles for customers. We used to 
employ delivery drivers and additional 
agency drivers to deliver vehicles all over 
the country, however a customer will 
now receive a vehicle from the nearest 
depot with availability;
  Simplifying and reducing the costs of 
internal administration and finance 
through centralisation to be completed 
early in the 2012 calendar year;
  Improved sales and operational  
planning, reducing vehicle holding costs 
and increasing sales opportunities;
  Restructuring our commercial sales 
organisation to improve both our  
national and SME sales with a nationally 
managed sales force; and
  Increasing staff training and development 
across the whole organisation.
This fundamental reorganisation of the  
UK business, together with the enhanced 
information about our activities, will enable 
us to make sensible informed decisions 
about pricing and availability thus improving 
our offering to customers and increasing  
our operating margin.
In addition to the  10m annualised cost 
savings targeted by April 2011, the above 
plans will result in a further annualised 
improvement to operating profit of over 
 5m from April 2012. Of these additional 
 5m annualised cost savings, we will incur 
total implementation costs of c. 3m in  
the year ending 30 April 2012.
Spain
Our Spanish business continues to operate 
in an extremely difficult and uncertain 
environment. This is particularly the case in 
the construction sector. One of the major 
challenges our business has faced in Spain is 
the reliance on this sector, and I am pleased 
to report that we have reduced our reliance 
on the construction sector from 55% in 
2010 to 37% in 2011, which was mainly 
achieved through compensating increases  
in the wholesale and retail distribution,  
and electrical, plumbing and equipment 
maintenance service sectors. 3 Chairman's statement
Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
Our underlying operating margin
12
 increased 
to 18.0% in the year (2010 - 12.7%). In 
Spain, we have significantly lower margins 
compared to the UK, as we incur c. 14m 
of vehicle insurance costs, which are borne 
by the company and not the customer. In 
the longer term, hire rates will need to 
improve to recover these costs.
In times of uncertainty the importance  
of strong fleet management becomes 
imperative and for the first time under  
our ownership the Spanish business has 
achieved average utilisation for the year of 
91% (2010 - 88%). Ongoing investment 
made in our used vehicle disposal capability 
has enabled the Spanish business to  
dispose of 19,000 vehicles at increasing 
residual values.
Debtor management continues to be an 
area of focus, specifically large construction 
debtors as government investment 
programmes continue to reduce. In the  
year ended 30 April 2011 the bad debt 
charge at  4m was  6m less than in the year 
to 30 April 2010.
From 1 January 2011, the Spanish business 
was merged, with the former Fualsa and 
Record businesses trading under the 
Northgate brand. It has been a complex  
task as there was much overlap between  
the two brands at very different prices.  
This has strengthened our position with 
customers and provides annualised benefits 
of approximately  4m from January 2011. 
One-off cash costs associated with this 
merger totalling  3m were incurred in the 
year. Further non-cash write downs of 
non-current assets of  15m have also been 
recognised in the current year. These 
comprise  7m write down of certain 
intangible assets recognised on acquisition 
and  8m of property write downs.
Refinancing
During the year the Group initiated 
discussions with all its lenders and private 
placement noteholders leading to  
a successful renegotiation of its  
borrowing facilities.
As previously announced the refinancing 
comprises three elements:
  A new eight year  100m term loan  
facility provided by M&G UK Companies 
Financing Fund ( M&G loan'), repayable 
in three equal instalments in October 
2017, April 2018 and April 2019;
  A committed bank facility with an 
extended maturity of September 2014, 
initially  468m in size; and
  The Group's existing loan notes (currently 
amounting to  170m equivalent at fixed 
exchange rates) will remain invested until 
their original maturity dates, which are 
between November 2012 and December 
2016, and at their existing coupon rates.
These facilities contribute to total committed 
facilities of the Group of  781m providing 
headroom
9
 of  225m at 30 April 2011.
Employees
The Group's employees experienced a  
year of considerable change as a result  
of the need to reorganise both the UK and 
Spanish businesses. Our ongoing recovery 
continues to be as a result of their 
dedication, hard work and loyalty through 
this time of upheaval and economic 
uncertainty. I would like to thank them  
on behalf of the Board.
Dividend
The Board has again given careful 
consideration to paying a dividend and,  
on balance, has decided that it is not  
yet prudent to pay a dividend. The  
re-introduction of a dividend will  
continue to be reviewed going forward.
Board Changes
On 19 May 2011 Chris Muir was appointed 
Group Finance Director. His appointment 
was made following an extensive search 
process involving internal and external 
candidates. He has an extensive working 
knowledge of the business and has worked 
for Northgate in a wide range of finance 
positions demonstrating that he has  
the capability to be an outstanding  
finance director.
Current trading and outlook
Despite the economic downturn the  
Group has retained a strong, market 
leading position in both the UK and Spain, 
and has delivered earnings growth in line 
with the Board's expectations. Underlying 
cash generation in 2011 was  99m
10 
leaving net debt at  530m
4
, which we 
expect to fall further in 2012. This, 
combined with the debt refinancing 
completed during the year, leaves the 
Group with an appropriate and robust 
capital structure.
We enter the new financial year with  
a clear programme for operational 
improvement. Our focus will remain on 
improving returns and further progress  
is planned in the coming year through  
hire rate improvement, efficient fleet 
management, further cost reductions  
and cash generation.
The Group has begun the new financial 
year in line with the Board's expectations, 
and the Board is confident the Group is 
well placed to continue to deliver 
significant value to shareholders.
Bob Mackenzie 
Chairman
For footnote references see page 17.