 o2.com   2
Chairman's statement
  Strong financial performance
  First dividend earlier than planned
  Capital reorganisation approved
  New company name - O2 plc
  In shape for next phase of development 
I would like to welcome you to this, the first annual report since our change of name to O2 plc and my
first since I was appointed Chairman of your Company. 
In 2004/05, all of O2's businesses performed well and the Group delivered another year of strong revenue
and profit growth, with turnover from continuing operations up more than 18 per cent and underlying
earnings per share 63 per cent ahead of last year. Since our demerger from BT in November 2001, there
has been a transformation in the Group's operational and financial performance. We have been delighted,
as a result, to be able to establish a policy of sustainable dividends earlier than originally expected. The
Group has produced both earnings growth and a positive cash flow. We believe strongly that shareholders
should benefit directly from this and, accordingly, we are very pleased to be able to propose an inaugural
final dividend of 2.25 pence per share.
The payment of a dividend for 2004/05 and our new policy of sustainable dividends reflect our confidence
in the Company's future prospects, and our commitment to deliver returns for shareholders. 
As you will know, a capital reorganisation, announced in November 2004, was required to enable us to
make the dividend payment. I am pleased that shareholders overwhelmingly approved the Company's
proposals at an Extraordinary General Meeting, following Court approval of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The Scheme became effective on 14 March 2005 when dealings in new O2 plc shares began on the
London Stock Exchange.
We also recognised that, as a legacy of the demerger from BT, the former mmO2 share register included 
a large number of very small shareholders. The cost of servicing such a large number of shareholders was
significant and was set to rise further with the payment of dividends. Therefore, shareholders had the
option of electing to receive, in exchange for their existing shares in mmO2 plc, either new shares in O2 plc
or a cash consideration. In the event, some 833,000 holders, owning up to 1,000 shares each, received the
cash alternative. This has allowed the Company to secure a long-term reduction in the costs of servicing its
shareholders, whilst remaining one of the ten most widely held public companies in the UK with more
than nine out of ten shareholders being retail investors.
As part of the reorganisation proposals, mmO2's American Depositary Receipts were delisted from 
the New York Stock Exchange. There is no intention to seek a US listing for O2 shares. In view of the
disproportionate costs arising from continued registration with the US SEC, we intend also to deregister
from the SEC.
Board changes
I joined the Company as a non-executive Director in April 2003 and became Chairman of mmO2 plc at 
the conclusion of the Company's Annual General Meeting in July 2004, when David Varney stood down. 
I would like to thank David Varney for handing over the Company in such good shape. Having successfully
led the Company since demerger, David has now taken up the new and challenging position of executive
chairman of HM Revenue & Customs.
There have been other important changes in the Board over the past year.
David McGlade, CEO of O2 UK, stepped down from the Board and left the Company at the end of the
financial year in March 2005. He has returned to America to become CEO of Intelsat. David led the
turnaround in O2 UK's performance since demerger, and the successful establishment of the O 2 brand in
the UK. He has been succeeded as CEO of O2 UK by the former UK Chief Financial Officer, Matthew Key,
who has also been appointed to the Executive Committee of O2 plc.
During the year, the Board was further strengthened with the appointment of Patrick Lupo, Kathleen
O'Donovan and Rudolf Lamprecht as non-executive Directors. Previously chief executive and then executive
chairman of DHL Worldwide Express, Patrick brings with him a wealth of experience in international sales,
service and distribution. Kathleen has joined the Audit Committee reflecting her expertise in the capital
and financial markets, having been Chief Financial Officer at Invensys plc and chair of the audit committee
of the Court of the Bank of England. She also brings relevant experience from a number of non-executive
directorships, which includes the music recording and publishing group, EMI. Rudolf's deep understanding
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 2 o2.com   3
of sales, marketing and customer segmentation as a Board member at Siemens AG, as well as his
knowledge of the German market, mean that all three will make a major contribution to our strategy 
of focusing on improving the customer experience and organic growth as we continue to drive the
Company forward.
Three non-executive Directors - Paul Myners, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins - stepped down from the 
Board. Paul Myners decided to become chairman of Marks & Spencer, Neelie Kroes left following her
nomination by the Dutch Government as its new EU Commissioner, and Ian Meakins wished to devote
himself to his new role as chief executive officer of Alliance UniChem. I would like to thank Paul, Neelie 
and Ian, all of whom have contributed to the successful establishment of O2 as a FTSE 100 company with 
a strong balance sheet and a powerful O
2
brand.
Andrew Sukawaty, who has made an outstanding contribution as senior independent Director and Deputy
Chairman since the demerger, has elected to stand down from these roles owing to an increase in other
business commitments. He remains a key non-executive Director and shareholders will continue to benefit
from his close involvement in the business. Stephen Hodge was appointed Deputy Chairman and senior
independent Director, and joined the Nomination and Governance Committee. Patrick Lupo became
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in place of Andrew Sukawaty, who remained a member of 
that committee.
Corporate Responsibility
We take seriously our responsibility to the communities in which we operate. We strongly believe that
companies who respond to the needs of the communities in which they work, and of the wider world, are
more likely to succeed on a sustainable basis. I am pleased that our efforts in these areas were recognised
last year. O2 was the top scoring mobile phone operator in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. We were
included in the FTSE4Good, the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility (CR) Index and the Top
100 Global Sustainability Reporters list. 
Under our Can Do in the Community programme, we have successfully developed a number of community
projects across our territories, while measures to support employee fund-raising and giving to charity
through payroll have been launched. In total we contributed  1.7 million in charitable donations across the
Group, of which over  600,000 came from UK-based companies, and a further  500,000 to the Tsunami
appeal. Most importantly, our employees continued to give their time and imagination to a wide range of
fund-raising schemes.
At O2 we are sensitive to public concerns over issues such as health and the use of mobile phones, the
siting of masts, and the protection of the vulnerable. To help parents and others make informed choices, we
have introduced measures such as age verification, parental controls, filters and barring. In addition, we help
fund on-going research and are committed to effective, responsible communications, producing leaflets on
subjects ranging from health issues to advice to parents on personal safety, bullying and internet grooming.
All of this information is available in our retail outlets and online. A separate Corporate Responsibility report
will be published in July 2005.
The excellent performance of our individual businesses also won independent recognition in the form of 
a number of important awards. I am particularly proud that O2 was voted Best Large Company to Work
For  in Ireland and placed in the top 15 medium-sized employers in Germany. One of our key objectives 
at O2 is to improve the day-to-day working lives of our employees and to ensure that work is an
environment that they enjoy. We are in the process of introducing Balance - a new flexible approach 
to employee benefits designed to help with the management of work/life choices. It would allow, for
example, our staff to substitute extra payments for life insurance or additional child-care vouchers for
unwanted holiday time.
Looking ahead
We are financially strong and have built a powerful, iconic O
2
brand. Revenue is growing fast, the Company
has modest debt and, with a strong management team led by Peter Erskine, our CEO, we have so far
outperformed most City expectations. O2 is in a good position. Taking the Company forward to the next
phase of its development and further strengthening its position in Germany, the United Kingdom and Ireland
will be challenging but achievable.
I believe that Germany represents the most significant new opportunity for O2 and it is for this reason that
the Board has authorised a substantial extra capital investment into our German business. Its performance
has substantially exceeded our expectations and the impressive momentum and growth in revenue and
profitability that O2 Germany has achieved over recent years is continuing apace.
Improving customer satisfaction and reducing churn are the greatest challenges that the mobile industry
faces. Ownership of mobile phones is now so widespread, and the degree of competitiveness so intense,
that we must change our emphasis from striving to acquire new customers towards retaining those we
already have. I am determined that O2 will take a lead in these areas. We will focus on gaining a closer
understanding of our customers' needs and behaviour, to find the best way in which we can reward their
loyalty. We will work even harder to differentiate our business by delivering intuitive, easy-to-use and fairly
priced products and services - particularly in the data field - that our customers value highly, based on
proven technology. And we will continue to ensure that we work to make a difference to the communities
in which we operate, building a sustainable business for the future.
We aim to grow the dividend towards our medium-term target pay-out ratio of 50 per cent of underlying
earnings, reflecting our confidence in the Company's ability to continue to grow revenue, earnings and cash
flow, and our commitment to deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
David Arculus
Chairman
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 3