 1 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2008
Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic (CSEM) surveying 
is a demonstrably value-adding offshore exploration
technology, especially when integrated with seismic 
and other geophysical data. A year ago we believed that
CSEM had become a mainstream exploration tool and
invested in additional crews, equipment and a second 
long term charter. Shareholders will therefore share our
disappointment that utilisation of our CSEM acquisition
crews and industry adoption of the technology slowed
dramatically during 2008. Regrettably, this has led to
reduced revenues of  10.8 million and increased pre-tax
losses of  8.7 million for the twelve months ended 
31 August 2008.
We need to understand what has driven this decline and 
if this signals a change in our view of how our clients will
adopt this technology.
It is first worthwhile looking at the supply side of our
market. The service sector has now grasped the potential
of CSEM and more players have entered, or are attempting
to enter the market, in some cases with significantly
different configurations of technology. This has
dramatically increased the levels of supply and in mid-
summer there were potentially eleven electromagnetic
crews available. OHM has played its part in this increase in
capacity with the introduction of our third crew on the
recently delivered OHM Leader, which was ordered a year
ago in a time of apparently steady market growth.
Coupled with this increase in supply, the demand side 
of the business took a setback when significant work
programs in Asia were cancelled for a number of reasons
not associated with the technology. This coincided with
operationally driven lulls in activity by the major users of
the technology resulting in a likely overall decline in
market size for 2008. The significant imbalance of supply
and demand created difficult market conditions for both
OHM and its competitors, all of whom have visibly suffered
this year.
Our market research shows that the main reasons for slow
adoption, amongst those not yet using CSEM, are to do
with a lack of understanding of the technology, a lack of
resources to deal with it, and uncertainty about how to
integrate and incorporate the results with other
geophysical and geological data in a value creating way.
Lack of budgets was also cited as an important issue but
these budgets will follow if we can solve the first two
issues. We have redoubled our efforts to showcase the
benefits of CSEM to potential clients in a bid to overcome
this resistance.
Against this landscape, we must ask what the future holds
for us. Here, I believe there is cause for some optimism.
When we look at our contracts to date we still note a
pleasing mix of work with a steadily rising number of
repeat clients, together with a solid flow of new ones. This
gives us confidence that new users are still coming to the
technology and that a significant number of them will go
on to adopt.
We believe that our technical research continues to give us
an edge too, by improving the value of the information
provided by CSEM surveys and by widening the envelope 
of geological settings in which we can apply CSEM. OHM
pioneered the application of CSEM in shallow water and
we have recently completed a CSEM survey in a shallow
water carbonate setting. Such a survey, in this type of
geological setting, would have been unimaginable two
years ago and conducting CSEM operations in these water
depths would have been deemed impossible when OHM
was founded. The results of the survey are still at an early
stage of analysis but look extremely promising. By
increasing the range of geological conditions in which 
we can apply the technique, we significantly increase the
potential market for CSEM.
Our pool of identified opportunities for 2009 is larger than
the comparable view we had in 2008, and we are now
engaged in efforts to turn this potential into order backlog.
Our alliance with CGGVeritas is also contributing to this
picture, helping us to build relationships and create
prospects in markets that were previously not available 
to us through a lack of resources to maintain significant
market presence.
Adding further momentum to our business, we continue 
to see the value in the combination of CSEM with other
information, and our recent acquisition of Rock Solid
Images has enabled us now to create unique,
multidisciplinary teams of analysts who are able to engage
with all of the geosciences data that clients have and to
fully integrate CSEM results, unlocking the true potential 
of the technique. Our first proposals to operate for oil
companies in this way have met with a positive response
and we see this type of approach as quickly becoming the
norm for CSEM applications. We believe that we have a
significant lead in creating the operational tools,
workflows, and architecture to work in this way.
We must counter this positive view with an awareness of 
the potential threats to these work programs resulting
from the current global financial situation. We count
ourselves fortunate to have a significant portion of our
opportunities with major companies who have
considerable cash generating capability and who, we hope,
are engaged in investing in reserves replacement for the
long term. We will closely monitor developments over the
coming months.
The supply side of the business also gives us some hope
for optimism. Faced with extremely high costs, we believe
that some of our competitors appear to be withdrawing
capacity from the market.
Dave Pratt
Executive Chairman
Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Chairman' s statement 2 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2008
At OHM, we have always maintained a strategy of having at
least some of our capacity in mobile equipment that is not
associated with vessels chartered longer than the length of
any given client contract. To ensure security of supply of
capacity, we have balanced this up with long term charter
commitments on vessels that we believe give us a
significant operational edge. These vessel charters contain
favourable provisions to provide periods free of charge
during periods of low utilisation. This provides us some
cushion, but regrettably not enough in these oversupplied
markets. To try to limit our fixed costs exposure, we have
looked for opportunities to sub-charter out capacity on
short term contracts and have had some success so far in
achieving this aim.
Our Rock Solid Images subsidiary gives us hope for
optimism too. The restructuring and integration of Rock
Solid Images into OHM is complete and we have a
strengthened management team going forward with
Richard Cooper, Rock Solid Image's former President,
assuming a group role as President of the OHM group.
Some momentum has been lost and revenues have been
disappointing at Rock Solid Images during this integration
period when we have also refocused the business to
concentrate on growing their rock physics driven seismic
inversion offering. This is now gaining real traction in the
market place, helped by significant technical success on
the exciting new Jubilee trend in West Africa. Rock Solid
Images now has a strong order backlog which should
support much better performance in 2009.
Our Board has seen a number of changes in the course of
the year and I would like to take this opportunity to thank
our former Chairman, Pierre Jungels, who retired at the last
AGM, for his guidance and wisdom since our arrival as a
public company. Pierre was rigorous in the standards of
corporate governance that he expected of us, and our
strong foundations in these aspects are his legacy. Thierry
Le Roux and Steve Ludlow both joined the Board as non
executive directors in the course of the year bringing a
wealth of experience of public company governance
within the geophysical industry to our board team. Steve
will shortly step down due to his other commitments and 
I wish to take this opportunity to thank him for his wise
counsel in the time he has been with us. Keith Lough, our
longest serving non executive director, formally took on
the role of senior independent non executive director.
Taking stock of our current situation we note that by
building our three crews'worth of equipment, our data
processing facilities, and by acquiring the added skills that
came with Rock Solid Images, we have put in place the
essential building blocks we need to deliver services as
demand for our technology offering increases. We have a
strong team of dedicated professionals to support these
operational capabilities and I would like to extend my
thanks to them for their efforts and professionalism in
difficult circumstances in the past year.
Outlook 
We must now focus our efforts on sales and marketing,
on driving forward industry adoption of CSEM, and on
evangelising the benefits that we can deliver through 
the integration of CSEM with other data.
At the end of the fiscal year 2008 we had cash in hand 
of over  8 million, however we will, during 2009, require
significantly increased revenues and/or a further
fundraising to get through this current difficult period.
The position of the capital markets may make a fundraising
difficult or overly dilutive and in addition to reducing costs
wherever possible the Board is considering all options to
ensure OHM's continued viability. I would draw your
attention to the statement of going concern assumption 
in note 2 where the directors explain the reasons why it
continues to be appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis. As a consequence,
the audit report to the 2008 financial statements will
contain an emphasis of matter paragraph drawing
attention to the Group's viability as a going concern.
As I write this report we are engaged with a number of
parties who have expressed early interest in the possibility
of acquiring the Company. In tandem with this, we are
pursuing a number of opportunities to temporarily sub-
charter some of our vessel capacity to reduce our fixed
cost base.
We retain a strong belief in the value of our services and 
a confidence that integrated electromagnetic and acoustic
measurements of the earth will provide significant benefits
to explorers and exploiters of hydrocarbons in future years.
Our short term challenge is to secure the Company's future.
Dave Pratt
Executive Chairman
18 December 2008