 Annual Report and Accounts 201 1 
www.omegadiagnostics.com
10
Chairman's Statement 
The potential for the Group has been transformed  
with the successful acquisition of a leading  
German-based allergy business.
The current instrument  
systems are used in  
laboratories in Germany  
and there is export  
potential through the  
Omega worldwide  
distribution network.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report the progress  
we have made this year, particularly  
in driving the continued growth of Food 
Intolerance products, along with the 
successful fundraising and acquisition  
of Allergopharma's IVD Allergy business.
Strategy
The strategy to achieve growth through 
acquisition took a major step forward in the 
year, with the completion of the acquisition  
of Allergopharma's allergy business in 
December. As well as gaining control of the 
existing business in Germany with annual 
revenues of approximately  4m, we have also 
gained access to a large bank of over 600 
allergens. As part of the strategy to build a 
global allergy business, we sought to expand 
the market potential by identifying the need  
to offer an automated instrument for such  
a large product range to meet the workflow 
needs of larger laboratories. To this end, the 
Group was successful in exclusively licensing 
the use of Immunodiagnostic Systems' 
IDS-iSYS automated system for allergy testing 
on a global basis. Whilst it will take time to 
develop tests on this platform, I believe the 
combination of a large number of allergens 
and the proven capabilities of the IDS-iSYS 
system provides a major opportunity to build 
a strategically coherent presence in the 
expanding allergy market. We also aim to 
adapt our in-house microarray system to 
provide a broad screening option for allergy 
providing a choice of diagnostic approaches 
to allergy specialists and if successful, we  
will also look to use the microarray platform  
to develop a panel of autoimmune tests.
Within our underlying business, we have 
previously recognised the need for continued 
growth of the Food Intolerance business  
and I am pleased to report that this division 
has again delivered growth in turnover.  
Sales of Genarrayt
 
 systems and reagents 
have continued to perform with combined 
revenues of close to  1.7m compared to just 
over  1m last year. Elsewhere, our Infectious 
Disease business benefited from a full year  
of ownership of Co-Tek with sales of bacterial 
suspensions of  349k versus  176k the  
year before.
After the year end, we also announced a 
distribution agreement with Toyota for Food 
Detective
 
 in the United States. Whilst it will 
take some time to complete the regulatory 
procedures, this will also be the first time the 
Group has been able to initiate a strategy  
of potentially building a presence in the US.
Financial
Turnover for the Group increased to  7.9 
million (2010:  6.2 million), an increase of 27% 
over last year, and includes three months of 
post acquisition trading from our German 
business. On a like-for-like basis excluding 
the acquisition, turnover has increased by 
12% over the previous year. On the measure  Annual Report and Accounts 201 1 
www.omegadiagnostics.com
11
Overview
Business  
Review Governance
Financial  
Statements
of profit, we consistently report on adjusted  
profit before tax so shareholders can more 
easily gauge our performance as compared 
to external market forecasts. The Group 
achieved an increase in adjusted profit before 
tax of 25% to  736k. This figure is arrived at 
by taking statutory profit before tax of  105k 
and then adding back analyst-adjusted items 
including IFRS-related discount charges of 
 22k, amortisation of intangible assets of 
 193k, share-based payment charges of  8k, 
acquisition costs of  412k, and fair value 
adjustments to financial derivatives of ( 4k).  
In line with revised accounting standards, 
acquisition-related costs are now charged 
through the income statement which is a 
change over previous years. 
Net finance costs have reduced further to  31k 
(2010:  97k) as the Company has continued  
to benefit from the benign environment for 
interest rates along with a continued reduction 
in loan balances and unwinding of discounts. 
The Group achieved an adjusted profit after 
tax of  662k being adjusted profit before tax  
of  736k less the tax charge of  74k. This 
resulted in adjusted earnings per share of  
1.7p (2010: 3.1p). Statutory profit after tax 
amounted to  31k (2010:  187k) which resulted 
in earnings per share of 0.1p versus earnings 
per share of 1.0p in the previous year. 
In recognition of our presence in the allergy 
market, we are also amending the way we 
manage, review and report the performance  
of the business into three key segments; Food 
Intolerance, Allergy and Autoimmune and 
Infectious Disease/other. Where central costs 
are not allocated to any specific segment, 
these are shown as corporate costs and 
excluded from the divisional reporting results.
Food Intolerance
The Food Intolerance division benefited from 
the continued growth in Genarrayt
 
 systems. 
Total systems placements reached 95 by the 
end of the year and the relatively low cost  
per system means we continue to generate 
revenue from this activity with sales this year 
of  192k (2010:  213k). Reagent sales grew 
substantially, particularly in Spain, and total 
revenues reached  1.5 million compared to 
 0.8 million last year.
Food Detective
 
 volumes grew following 
progress in supplying bulk components into 
China such that annual volumes reached  
over 41,000 compared to over 34,000 the  
year before. Food Detective
 
 revenues fell 
marginally from  790k to  772k reflecting  
the mix towards bulk component supply but 
future growth is foreseen in countries beyond 
Europe which has historically underpinned 
much of the growth to date. 
Overall, the Food Intolerance division 
generated revenues of  3.6 million compared 
to  3.0 million the year before and adjusted 
profit before tax grew to approximately  
 1.0 million from  0.6 million.
Allergy and Autoimmune
In June last year, we set up Omega 
Diagnostics GmbH ( Omega GmbH')  
to acquire the allergy business from 
Allergopharma Joachim Ganzer KG,  
a transaction which completed on 21 
December 2010. Omega GmbH incurred 
costs of approximately  90k in advance of 
acquiring the allergy business and incurred 
costs of a one-off nature of  120k between 
the acquisition and the end of the year. 
Divisional turnover was approximately  1.5 
million versus  0.7 million the previous year 
reflecting three months of trading through 
Omega GmbH not present last year. Sales of 
autoimmune products fell by 11% to  584k 
(2010:  658k) reflecting increased competition 
from other companies, who are able to  
supply more automated solutions although 
developing our in-house microarray system 
may, in part, address this issue. Given the 
investment costs within Omega GmbH I have 
referred to, the adjusted profit before tax of 
this division was  37k compared to  157k  
the year before. Excluding these start up 
costs, underlying profitability in this division 
would have been over  200k. However, in  
the years ahead we see this division as having 
the potential to provide significant growth 
opportunity and I have alluded to the means 
of achieving this in the strategy section above.
Infectious Disease/Other
Our Infectious Disease division continues to 
operate in a price competitive environment 
across all the continental regions. Sometimes 
however, the supply of a quality product can 
make the difference and we have seen some 
business regained, particularly in Russia, 
where we lost out previously on price but 
have won back a customer for our Syphilis 
Immutrep  product on quality and reputation. 
Following the acquisition of Co-Tek in 2009, 
we have also seen some growth both in our 
Micropath  range of bacterial suspensions, 
particularly in Africa and the Middle East, and 
increased supply through UK OEM contracts. 
Overall, divisional turnover was approximately 
 2.8 million (2010:  2.6 million) and yielded an 
adjusted profit before tax of  406k (2010:  386k).
Balance sheet
Following the acquisition in the year, the 
Group has intangible assets of  9.6 million 
(2010:  5.2 million) at the year-end comprised 
of goodwill of  5.0 million and intangible 
assets of  4.6 million. Those assets purchased 
as part of a business combination, where 
capable of being separately identified, are 
valued in line with current IFRS practice.  
Also included within intangible assets are 
paid and contracted licence fees due under 
the agreement signed with IDS. The Group 
performs annual impairment reviews and 
remains comfortable with the carrying value 
of its intangible assets given the growth  
and results for the year just ended along  
with future prospects.
Further to the placing of new shares in the 
year to raise funds (see below), the Group  
has eliminated its net debt position and now 
has net cash at the year-end of  0.4 million 
(2010: net debt of  1.26 million).
Fund raising
In December, the Company successfully 
raised  7.75 million (before expenses) via the 
placing of 64,583,350 new ordinary shares  
to fund the acquisition of the German allergy 
business and the development of the new 
instrumentation strategy I refer to above (see 
strategy section). We are very grateful for the 
support of our existing and new shareholders 
and hope to deliver a growth in value based 
on our outlined strategy.
Board and employees
I am grateful for the work and effort of all 
employees who ensured we have again 
delivered a promising set of results. I am  
also pleased to report that after the year-end, 
we appointed Jag Grewal as Group Sales  
and Marketing Director. We have also 
strengthened the senior management team 
with the appointment of Mr Ernst Mohler as 
Managing Director of Omega Diagnostics 
GmbH and Dr Edward Valente as Allergy 
Systems Director and I look forward to 
working with Andrew and the expanded  
team to deliver the new potential that now 
exists within the Group.
Outlook
Trading in the first quarter of the year is  
in line with management expectation and  
we are optimistic for the export potential  
of the existing allergy products, having 
recently showcased these at an international 
trade show. Our ability to grow strategically  
in the allergy space is predicated on our 
ability to develop new tests on the IDS-iSYS 
system and the early signs from the 
development programme are cause for 
encouragement.
I look forward to updating you throughout  
the year.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
1 July 2011