 Optos plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6
Company Overview Directors' Statements Committee Reports Accounts
To our Shareholders
Every five seconds someone, somewhere in  
the world, loses their sight. There are 45 million 
blind people in the world but three-quarters of  
all blindness can be prevented or cured. Sight 
impairment and vision loss through age-related 
and lifestyle-related diseases, such as macular 
degeneration and diabetes respectively, is  
growing at epidemic rates. It is estimated that  
75 million people worldwide will be blind by  
2020 if preventative steps are not taken now.
Through our world-leading, ultra wide-field 
imaging of the retina across the back of the eye, 
we play a significant role in the early diagnosis  
of both eye and systemic disease. We ended  
the year with nearly 4,000 devices installed  
in eight country markets and our products are 
being used increasingly by retinal specialists  
for whom we have developed a new product - 
the optomap
 
 fa Angiography Procedure  
which is performed by our P200MA device.
Since our products were first commercialised in 
2000, our customers have performed a total of 
approximately 18 million examinations, enabling 
us to reach two landmarks in the last financial 
year - 16% revenue growth to exceed $100 
million for the first time and positive earnings  
at the full year for the first time of $4.6 million.
Our proprietary technology meets a significant 
global and unmet need and offers important 
benefits over conventional procedures. Image 
capture time is just a quarter of a second, 
providing the practitioner with immediate access 
to the widest angle view of the retina currently 
available anywhere. There is no need for the 
repeated, uncomfortable inspections often 
associated with conventional techniques which, 
due to an inability to inspect a greater area of  
the retina without excessive manipulation, raise 
the prospect of missing any early signs of retinal 
disease. Patient convenience is further enhanced 
as no dilation of the pupil is necessary which,  
for some hours following other examinations,  
can often leave patients unable to carry  
out certain functions, such as driving.
Our addressable market opportunity is an 
estimated $4 billion. Based on a strategy of 
developing close partnerships with our customers, 
continued innovation and excellence in product 
development and service delivery, we continue  
to focus on achieving deeper market penetration 
in all of our country markets through attracting 
new customers in optometry and ophthalmology 
and by helping our existing customers increase 
their practice productivity by maximising usage  
of our products.
North America continues to offer the largest 
commercial opportunity and our business 
continued to perform well despite some softness 
in the last quarter of the year. We are vigilant  
for any continued change in patient consultation 
with their eye specialist and are examining all 
ways to continue the growth that our business 
has shown it can deliver. Particularly pleasing was 
our continued progress in the corporate customer 
segment where we extended our reach with 70 
new installations into owned-practice locations 
with an existing major US customer chain and 
another 25 installations into a new Canadian-based 
retail network. Europe returned high double-digit 
growth, with our performance in Germany 
particularly strong. Our decision to move into our 
newer European markets has been validated by 
our performance to date, particularly in Norway 
where our progress in primary care has been 
much greater than expected.
We have two interconnected customer groups 
- optometrists and ophthalmologists. The former 
are more focused on wellness screening in a 
primary care market, while the latter focus on 
disease diagnosis and treatment in secondary 
care. During the year we extended our reach  
and value offering into secondary care through  
the launch of the P200MA which, using an 
advanced medical angiography procedure 
enables retinal specialists to reveal new findings 
Chairman's Statement
Through our  
world-leading, ultra 
wide-field imaging of 
the retina across the 
back of the eye, we  
play a significant role  
in the early diagnosis  
of both eye and 
systemic disease. 
We have a strong business with 
an extensive sales and service 
network serving our customers 
worldwide who are spread across 
multiple market sectors. We are 
confident about the future. 
Dr John M. Padfield
Chairman Optos plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
Robust Business Model
 
Our business model is robust because it is based on a recurring, 
pay-per-patient revenue model and premised on sustained excellent 
customer service resulting in high contract renewal rates. We also  
sell a small number of our devices to certain specialist customers 
on a capital sales basis, whose business practice specifies a capital 
purchase model. This combined strategy positions us very well  
in terms of continuing with our growth plans.
in peripheral retinal neo-vascularisation which is 
helping in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetic 
retinopathy. Early detection of diabetic retinopathy 
makes a critical contribution to saving sight and 
reducing costs. To improve the resolution and 
usage of the P200, we launched the P200C 
which is designed to meet the more exacting 
clinical imaging capabilities and standards within 
the ophthalmology market and at optometric 
practices that are clinically managing a patient 
base with advanced ocular disease.
The pivotal role increasingly played by medical 
diagnostics in world healthcare plays to our 
strengths because the emphasis in our markets  
is increasingly on prevention allied to cure. 
Across all therapeutic areas, practitioners and 
patients alike are demanding earlier detection  
of disease and better treatment regimes.
The leading cause of visual loss among the 
elderly is Age-related Macular Degeneration 
(AMD),	which	is	growing	in	social	and	economic	
importance as demographics change. As the 
size of the elderly population increases, AMD  
will become a more prevalent cause of blindness. 
Currently there are relatively few effective 
treatments for the vast majority of patients 
suffering from the disease. Yet more than  
70 new drugs are under development within  
the healthcare industry and these new drugs  
will require earlier diagnosis in a large patient 
population. Diabetic retinopathy is another  
major cause of blindness. In the proliferative 
stage of the disease, newly formed, abnormal 
blood vessels can break through the retinal 
surface and haemorrhage into the normally 
transparent, gelatine-like vitreous in the middle  
of the eye. Scar tissue may subsequently form 
and pull the retina away from the back of the 
eye, causing a retinal detachment to occur. 
Laser treatment is a highly effective clinical  
tool for treating proliferative retinopathy.
Each of these diseases represents a significant 
opportunity for Optos. Our devices, through  
our unique, patented laser scanning technology, 
enables doctors to capture a high resolution, 
ultra wide-field view of the retina which greatly 
assists with the earlier detection and diagnosis 
of both eye and non-eye diseases. Tracking  
the development of the disease and optimising 
treatment plans through on-going evaluation are 
also made possible. Keeping patients healthier 
longer reduces hospitalisation and avoids the 
increased costs associated with chronic care.
Businesses worldwide are facing challenging 
times in the current economic climate. However, 
Optos is well-positioned to continue its growth 
aspirations through a combination of its business 
strategy that has created partnerships with 
thousands of eye-care specialists, supported  
by well-capitalised lending institutions and direct 
sales to appropriate institutions. We will continue 
to invest in these partnerships to create products 
and services that meet the needs of our customers 
and extend the usage of our products. The 
revenue and profits growth we achieved during 
2008 validates the business model we have 
created and, in markets such as the US where 
we have established a significant market share, 
the business is very profitable and has enabled  
us to invest in new markets and new products. 
We intend to focus further on profitability through 
addressing manufacturing costs and operating 
expenditures, as well as ensuring that our 
customers' contributions are optimised.
In November 2008 it was announced that  
Tom Butts had left the Company with the best 
wishes of the Board and that Roy Davis had been 
appointed Chief Executive Officer. The Board  
is delighted to welcome Roy to the Company.  
He has extensive experience of leading a global, 
medical product and service business and has  
a range of operating experience, notably in the 
United States. The Board is looking forward to 
working with Roy in enhancing our strategic vision 
and in continuing to grow the business.
I would like to thank my fellow members of  
the Board for their invaluable contribution and 
strategic input. On behalf of the Board my  
thanks go to the management team and all of  
our employees for a job well done. The continued 
success of the Company is a tribute to the talent, 
effort and enthusiasm of this great team and  
their ongoing commitment to being a trusted and 
reliable partner to our customers around the world.
For 2009, we believe that our pay-per-patient 
model and sustained high levels of customer 
contract renewals continue to provide a good 
foundation on which to build, despite the 
uncertain economic environment. Combined  
with the recent diversification of our product 
offering into the higher value medical care 
market, Optos has fundamental assets that  
we intend to exploit further.
We have a strong business with an extensive 
sales and service network serving our customers 
worldwide who are spread across multiple market 
sectors. We are confident about the future.
Dr John M. Padfield 
Chairman  
3 December 2008