 4
Pace Micro Technology plc  Report & Accounts 2004
During the period Pace has been
very successful in expanding its
revenues, against a background of
a new momentum in the global
digital payTV market caused by
reductions in set-top box average
selling prices (ASPs).
Chairman's statement
In the year ended 29 May 2004 Pace made a welcome return to profitability, following progressive improvements in
performance instigated by the management team over the last 18 months. 
During the period Pace has been very successful in expanding its revenues, against a background of a new momentum
in the global digital payTV market caused by reductions in set-top box average selling prices (ASPs). The 2003/04
results represent a marked improvement in the Group's performance, with Pace reshaping its global business and
gaining new customers, most importantly in Europe. The Board recognises that net margins need to be improved,
which is being addressed by maintaining a rigorous approach to the management of all business costs. The Board
believes it is right to maintain its business priority to grow market share whilst addressing these challenges.
Results
Profit before tax, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items improved to  5.9m (2003: loss  16.2m) on turnover
of  239.9m (2003:  166.6m). After taking into account goodwill amortisation of  564k and an exceptional charge of
 1.5m, profit before tax was  3.9m (2003: loss  50.1m). Basic earnings per share were 3.7p (2003: loss per share
22.0p). Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, adjusted earnings per share were 4.6p (2003: loss per
share 6.8p) and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 4.5p (2003: loss per share 6.8p).
Trading review
Pace's core market - digital set-top boxes for payTV operators worldwide - has entered a growth phase and Pace has
this year increased its volume shipments by 69% to 2.2 million set-top boxes, up from 1.3 million last year. We are also
seeing a significant shift in the shape of the Group's business: sales to non-UK customers have grown by  73m,
representing a 3.5 times increase over last year, to 42% of our total revenues, up from 17% of total revenues in 2003.
Overall turnover increased 44% in the year. The decline in ASPs has made it possible for more digital TV operators to
launch and extend their services, thereby generating the growth in demand. As a consequence of competition and
some component price increases, gross margin for the year declined to 19.0% (2003: 20.9% stated before exceptional
items). We have sought to balance the impact of competition on our ASPs through strong overhead management and
an increased use of outsourced services, coupled with continued efforts to reduce product cost. We also benefited
from the weakness of the US dollar in the second half.
Sir Michael Bett, CBE
Chairman 5
Pace Micro Technology plc  Report & Accounts 2004
Our Europe and Asia Pacific regions made the most significant contribution to volume growth, growing by factors 
of seven and three times respectively. In these regions we have won five major new customers: Sky Italia, Viasat in
Scandinavia, Premiere and KDG in Germany, and Foxtel in Australia. Sky Italia and Foxtel have quickly become
important customers, following successful and high profile service launches. We expect these regions to contribute
strongly in the coming year. 
The UK, as one of the most advanced and mature digital TV markets, remains important to Pace. Although UK
shipments fell 10% to approximately 1 million boxes as Pace has been gradually reducing its efforts in the low margin
Freeview market, revenues improved slightly due to changes in product mix. BSkyB has continued the promotion of its
Sky+ personal video recorder (PVR) which, combined with ongoing deliveries of the standard Digibox, makes it our
largest customer in this region. Our UK cable customers continue to be important to us, although they have moved to
dual source supply.
Our US shipments have grown - up three times to 162,000 units - as Pace began to benefit from the demand for high
definition television and to establish credibility with individual local networks.  High definition TV, which offers US
consumers a significant improvement in picture quality, is stimulating competition between cable and satellite operators
for digital customers.  However, further performance improvements and new product launches are required to move
our US operations into profitability.  Pace engineers are now well advanced in their work on the Group's first set-top
box for networks based on Motorola conditional access technology, which will expand our market opportunity. In
addition, they are well into development of our first high definition PVRs, suitable for deployment on all US networks.
We have continued to utilise Solectron's manufacturing facilities in Romania and China and have now started to
outsource engineering projects to Tata Elxsi in India. These, together with ongoing improvements to our engineering
performance, are enabling us to manage significantly more projects than before, without a commensurate increase 
in cost.
Board changes
As David Hood has decided not to stand for re-election as a non-executive director at the Annual General Meeting on
8 September 2004, he will retire from the Board on that date.
David founded Pace over twenty years ago and he has made a valuable contribution to the Board as a non-executive
director for the last six years. He is stepping down to dedicate more time to his other business interests and the Board
would like to thank him for the exceptionally important contribution he has made. 
Financial review
We have cut overheads, with non-engineering expenditure (excluding goodwill amortisation) down from  23.8m in 2003
to  18.5m and engineering development down, due to the improvements mentioned in the above paragraph, to
 21.3m (2003:  27.1m). As a percentage of revenue, total overheads excluding exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, fell to 16.6% (2003: 30.5%).
The taxation credit for the year resulted mainly from agreement with the UK Inland Revenue in respect of certain prior
year issues.
The Group continued its policy of providing for all current claims relating to the alleged use of the intellectual property
of others and was able, as in previous years, to release part of the overall provision. In the year ended 29 May 2004,
the level of releases exceeded new provisions by  0.6m (2003:  1.8m). 
We expect revenues to be ahead of last year and volumes
to be significantly ahead of last year, with more new
business being won. 6
Pace Micro Technology plc  Report & Accounts 2004
Net assets at 29 May 2004, excluding goodwill, increased to  42.5m (2003:  34.1m). Net current assets were  54.1m
(2003:  47.9m). Net cash balances at the year-end were  20.4m (2003:  13.1m). 
Stocks at the year-end amounted to  10.0m (2003:  16.0m), comprising  5.4m of raw materials and work in progress
and  4.6m of finished goods. The stock turnover rate was over 19 times based on year-end stock levels (2003: 8
times). Debtors of  64.7m (2003:  57.2m) included insured balances of  38.5m (2003:  34.2m). The trade debt
collection period was 11 weeks (2003: 12 weeks).
Pace's improved cash position came from the reduction in the levels of stock held and improvement in the working
capital position overall, offset by the final earn-out payment of  4.4m made in respect of a prior year acquisition. 
As previously announced, the Company is a party to a reference to the Financial Services and Markets Tribunal. The
Company is unfortunately prohibited under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 from providing any further
information regarding this reference until the matter is resolved. The Board considers it appropriate to make an
exceptional charge of  1.5m for costs, including legal fees, associated with this reference.
Outlook
In the UK, digital TV is now in 53% of households and over two thirds of these households have payTV. We expect
growth in penetration to continue, but at a slower rate. Pace has good relationships with all of the UK's digital payTV
operators and has led the introduction of higher specification products such as PVR. However, with steady unit sales
and declining ASPs, we expect to see an overall reduction in UK revenues in 2004/05. 
By contrast, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific represent our biggest opportunities for growth in the next year and
beyond, as more payTV operators go digital and others progress to higher specification PVR platforms.
In the US, we continue to focus our efforts on building our relationships with Comcast and Time Warner, as well as
developing increasingly good relationships with other important operators. Next year, revenues will increase, albeit
working from a relatively low starting point, and we aim to grow our market share, especially in the second half of the
financial year. 
We enter the year with good order cover. However, the market remains extremely competitive, some component prices
are increasing and the continuing volatility in the US Dollar exchange rate provide an additional element of
unpredictability and pressure on gross margins. To mitigate these factors, management is concentrating on tight
control of costs as well as the successful introduction of new PVR and high definition products. Pace has established
a strong position in these technologies. Overall, for the 2004/05 financial year, we expect to see further improvements
in our performance, with revenues ahead and volumes significantly ahead of last year.
Sir Michael Bett
Chairman
12 July 2004