 PACIFICMEDIAPLC
1
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Solid Progress Achieved in a Tough Year
After the substantial reorganisation and financial restructuring that I detailed in my first report to shareholders last
September, I am pleased to record that further solid progress has been made. Operationally, despite the difficult
trading conditions that prevailed in the second half of last year, our business is now gathering momentum.
Indeed, with the business refocused and office relocations and management changes substantially completed, by the
third quarter of last year we had put in place the framework on which we are building the new Pacific Media.
Although the fruits of this work had not made a positive impact on the 2004 Profit and Loss account, by the year end
we began to see encouraging results coming through.
RESULTS
For the financial year ended 31 December, 2004, the Group's turnover was  0.7 million, a decline from  5.6 million in
the prior year, due principally to loss of revenue from discontinued operations and difficult trading conditions.
In the same period, the Group further reduced its operating loss before goodwill and exceptional items to  6.4 million
from  7.2 million in the prior year.
Also, as a result of refocusing our business, your Board considers it prudent to make a further  12.0 million write
down of the carrying value of goodwill associated with our TV Media business to  9.5 million (2003:  21.5 million).
As a result, the Group's loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 was  18.0 million.
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Building Financial Strength
Since the Interim Report, I have advised shareholders in a letter dated 14 December 2004 of a number of important
transactions that the Board proposed to further strengthen the Company. These proposals were approved by
shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 10 January 2005.
The transactions included: the conversion of MediaXposure Limited's US$8.0 million Convertible Loan Note
Instrument, approval of certain conditions to a US$5.0 million Loan Facility made available by MediaXposure
(including conversion of US$2.5 million into shares of the Company), and a Capital Reorganisation.
Conversion of Debt into Equity
Since the investment by MediaXposure on 30 April 2004, the Company retired debt totalling some  3.88 million
through conversion into equity. This resulted in the issue of 1,550,022,028 new Ordinary Shares and the removal of
the debt from the Balance Sheet.
New Loan Facility
On 30 August 2004 MediaXposure agreed to provide the Company with a new US$5.0 million loan facility for
general working capital of Group companies and to allow the Company to continue its steady progress. This facility is
in addition to existing facilities of US$10.0 million agreed between the Company and MediaXposure. US$2.5 million
of this new facility will be converted into new Ordinary Shares by 30 September 2005. On 22 December 2004,
MediaXposure agreed to provide the Company a further US$ 5.0 million loan facility. As at the year end, the
Company had drawn down US$16.9 million of the available facilities.
Convertible Loan Notes
Under pre-existing terms, MediaXposure was entitled to convert the principal amount of the US$8.0 million
Convertible Loan Note Instrument into 6,213,364,852 Ordinary Shares.
The terms of the instrument and notes were amended such that they would convert into Ordinary Shares automatically
on 8 April 2005. PACIFICMEDIAPLC
2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT(continued)
Capital Reorganisation
At the EGM, shareholders approved the sub-division and re-designation of each existing Ordinary Share into New
Ordinary Shares (with identical rights) and one Class A Deferred Share. These Class A Deferred Shares have no
practical economic value as they are not listed on any exchange, carry no voting or dividend rights. However, they
enable the Company to comply with its obligations and, with the conversion of MediaXposure's Convertible Loan
Notes, to reduce the Group's indebtedness.
OPERATIONS REVIEW
Broadening Our Operations. Serving Our Customers
Since effecting the management and operational changes that I detailed in my previous statement to shareholders last
September, I am pleased to report that business is now well underway, with fully functional product development and
product sourcing capabilities in place in Hong Kong, Shanghai and throughout the Guangdong province of Southern
China. This has allowed us to re-launch DRTV and infomercial sales activities throughout the country via
substantially increased purchase of nationwide airtime under our newly established Responze TV brand name.
Many of the products we sell are provided to us on an exclusive basis, and a number of these are proprietary, having
been developed in-house. As a result, we are beginning to see interest for these products from both nationwide general
(high-street) retailers in China, as well as from international distributors. Indeed the Company recently announced
agreements with a number of prominent international home shopping companies, both to license their products for
China as well as to distribute Pacific Media's proprietary products to international customers.
In Shanghai, a new product showroom and customer service centre has been opened, and our new call centre will
become operational during the second quarter of 2005. National sales teams have been recruited with international
marketing efforts underway from satellite offices in Singapore and Taipei, Taiwan.
In addition to these operational developments, for the period under review, and subsequent to the 2004 year end, the
Company has put in train a number of new strategic alliances that will help underpin our business strategy, broaden
our distribution network and drive momentum. These include a potential licensing arrangement with sit-up Limited
(sit-up) of the UK. sit-up is the UK's fastest growing TV retailer with some 1.5 million British customers. If
concluded, this agreement could result in Pacific Media launching 'rising/falling' auction channels in the style of sit-
up's UK-based 'bid-up.tv' and 'price.drop.tv' in Hong Kong, Guangdong province and Taiwan. These negotiations
continue and the deadline for concluding negotiations has been extended to 28 April 2005.
DIRECTORS
Corporate Governance
In November 2004, after ten years of service as a Board Director, Emmanuel Olympitis retired as a Non-Executive
Director. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his contribution to the Company and for his advice and
good counsel during the first six months of my Chairmanship.
An integral part of the reorganisation of Pacific Media is to meet, and where practicable to exceed, 'best practice' in all
aspects of our structure and operation. This is covered more fully elsewhere in the Annual Report. We are aware that
currently, as a small company undergoing major changes, there are further actions that we need to take and these are
being addressed with urgency.
Directors
Following the retirement of Mr Olympitis, the Company had no Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board,
and we stated our intention to have two such Directors, in conformity with the Combined Code.
In January 2005, the Company announced the appointment of Robert C. Harris Jr. as an Independent Non-Executive
Director. He is the Senior Managing Director and Group Head of Technology Investment Banking at Bear Stearns in
San Francisco and New York. PACIFICMEDIAPLC
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT(continued)
In the same month, the Company also announced the appointment of Steven Goodman to the Board as an Executive
Director and Group Legal Adviser. Mr Goodman joined the Company from the Hong Kong office of Jones Day, a
prominent and internationally recognised law firm, where he was a partner since 2003.
Audit and Remuneration Committees
The Board is currently addressing the remaining Independent Non-Executive Director vacancy. The Board is seeking
an appropriately qualified candidate who would, in due course, chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
OUTLOOK
The 2004 year end was just eight months after your new Board and management team launched a programme
completely to refocus Pacific Media's business. While we are seeing positive results from that refocusing,  I believe
that it would be premature for me to forecast the outlook for the whole of 2005 based on the positive results that have
come through in the first few months of the year.
However, I believe that significant progress has been achieved and would anticipate that progress will continue to be
made.  I am also pleased to report that, so far this year, trading has been encouraging and your Board believes that this
positive trend will continue during 2005.
The new Board appreciates the patience and support of shareholders as we work through this transition period, and the
Directors have every confidence in the future of Pacific Media.
Darren Shaw
Executive Chairman