 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 10
Pan African Resources is steadily fulfilling our vision of 
becoming a mid-tier precious metals mining company. We 
understand that successful and sustainable businesses are not 
built overnight, but rather shaped, moulded and grown over 
time. We also recognise that for a mining business to succeed, 
and to continue to be successful, one requires a number of 
elements. These include quality assets, the right people, and 
the ability to mine safely and operate sustainably in our local 
environment. 
There is no denying that the global mining industry is currently 
experiencing difficult times, and South Africa is no exception. 
In addition to lower gold prices of late, South Africa has to deal 
with labour unrest and cost inflation, amongst other challenges. 
Amidst all of this, Pan African Resources has however been 
able to distinguish itself. It has been growing prudently to mid-
tier status, through both optimisation of existing assets and 
via new acquisitions. Successful growth, from a Pan African 
Resources perspective, is not measured by more attributable 
production ounces, but rather by sustainable increases in 
profitability and earnings. 
We finalised the acquisition of Evander Mines from Harmony 
Gold Mining Company Limited in February this year. Through 
the acquisition of Evander Mines, our Group has entered a new 
and exciting chapter in our history by adding another flagship 
operation. Evander Mines contributes profitable production 
ounces, and also has very attractive growth projects. 
Pan African Resources is absolutely committed to delivering 
results with zero harm to our people, communities and 
environment. It is therefore with deep regret that we have 
to report on the following two fatal accidents suffered during 
the year:
 On 17 November 2012, Gert Fourie, a fitter employed at 
Sheba Mine, was fatally injured on surface when he lost 
control of a truck he was driving when it slid off the road 
and rolled down the embankment, 
 On 7 March 2013, Velly Therry Malumane, a welder 
employed underground at Sheba Mine, was fatally injured 
when he was electrocuted whilst carrying out welding 
operations on a load haul dumper. 
In this report, we elaborate on how Pan African Resources 
will continue on a sustainable track of profitable growth, 
by focusing on key performance areas, such as completing 
the successful integration of our recent Evander Mines 
acquisition and bedding down the new Barberton Tailings 
Retreatment Plant (BTRP) for optimal production. In addition, 
management spends significant effort in identifying, analysing 
and mitigating critical business risks. Pan African Resources 
has operated according to a four pillars  business model that 
integrates the key financial, social and environmental aspects 
of our operations, even before integrated reporting became 
imperative in stakeholder relations.
Our successful bid for 
Evander Mines is a game 
changer and propels the 
Group into mid-tier status. 
CHAIRMAN'S
REPORT
Keith Spencer (Chairman) Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 11
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As the Chairman of a focused and motivated board, executive 
team and workforce, it is a privilege to introduce an excellent 
set of results for this financial year and to contribute to a 
report that succinctly and clearly reveals the material features 
of this financial year, and the strategies, analyses and forward 
planning important to shareholders, investors and other 
stakeholders. 
between our key business drivers, which include USD gold 
prices, South African inflation, wage and productivity increases 
and the USD/ZAR and GBP/ZAR exchange rates. Although 
movements in these factors cannot be accurately predicted, 
Pan African Resources models and plans using conservative 
assumptions to ensure measured and consistent growth.
It is evident that some miners strive for higher gold ounce 
production targets, while not paying due attention to the costs 
incurred in reaching these targets. Increased gold production 
may excite shareholders and appear good in annual reports, 
but the real costs of producing these ounces, weighed against 
economic drivers, must be thoroughly understood. I am 
confident that the board, executive and mine management 
of Pan African Resources are well schooled in these realities.
The board took the decision that our active participation 
in the Manica gold exploration project in Mozambique was 
no longer aligned with the Group's strategy of investing and 
operating producing assets. We therefore disposed of our 
interest with effect from January 2013 to Australian-owned 
Auroch, and we remain a significant shareholder in Auroch.
South African gold mining in context
It is no secret that the South African mining industry is 
presently under duress for a number of reasons. The most 
widely publicised is the labour discord following on the 
Marikana tragedy. All parties should share responsibility for 
this situation, and we should never allow a similar incident 
to reoccur. 
Societal inequality is a pressing reality in South Africa. It is, 
however, beyond the ability of mid-tier mining groups such 
as ours to resolve in isolation. However, we have to strive 
to be part of the solution in a proactive manner. In our area 
of influence, we offer our miners fair reward for their work, 
recognition of their value and inputs, and a safe working 
environment, in addition to supporting workers' health 
and our communities. We trust that the sound working 
relationships we have developed with our employees and 
their representatives will continue. We view all our employees 
as valued team members who contribute their productivity 
in support of Pan African Resources' sustainable business 
model. Over the past year, we created 302 employment 
opportunities during the construction of the BTRP .
A further current matter is that of South African mining 
legislation and conditions, laid out in the Mining Charter 
and proposed amendments to the B-BBEE Act. Pan African 
Resources wholeheartedly supports the intent of these 
regulations and legislation, as these are areas where we can 
proactively help address inequality and historic disadvantages. 
We are well positioned to continue to comply with both 
regulations and also best practice.
Global economic shifts often have a direct effect on gold 
prices and, in recent months, these haven't been favourable. 
World demand for commodities has been erratic, and 
gold prices in particular have been weak of late. A key impact 
The real costs of producing these 
ounces, weighed against economic 
drivers, must be thoroughly understood. 
I am confident that the board, 
executive and mine management 
of Pan African Resources are well 
schooled in these realities.
2013  
HIGHLIGHTS
What drives our results
As a gold mining business, the ongoing viability of Pan African 
Resources depends on maintaining the optimum balance 
Gross revenue in GBP increased by  
32.0% to  133.5 million 
(2012:  101.1 million). 
Gross revenue in ZAR increased by 
49.0% to ZAR1,848.1 million 
(2012: ZAR1,240.3 million).
Group capital expenditure in GBP incurred  
 27.6 million (2012:  17.4 million).
Group capital expenditure in ZAR incurred  
ZAR381.6 million 
(2012: ZAR213.9 million).
Gold sold increased by 38.2% to 
130,493oz (2012: 94,449oz).
Proposed dividend of ZAR0.1314 per 
share or ZAR240 million to shareholders. Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 12
was the USA's announcement that it will begin tapering  its 
quantitative easing programme, which has strengthened the 
US dollar and weakened gold prices, although Asian demand 
for physical gold remains high. How this will affect gold mining 
over the next year is impossible to predict at this time, but Pan 
African Resources is positioned to adapt as necessary within 
our low cost and high grade model. 
Future planning and outlook
The Group's strategic thrust in the short term is to 
consolidate our assets, contain or lower costs and increase 
productivity. Working through all the requirements of 
managing Evander Mines and effectively doubling the Group 
in size required immense effort, and I thank Harmony's 
board and management for the proactive role they played in 
this process. Bedding down the acquisition is continuing this 
year, and we are integrating the procurement and financial 
departments to realise efficiencies. An enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) system rolled out at Barberton Mines in 2012 
is being extended throughout the Group to enhance financial 
controls and reporting. 
A key focus of financial and operational management in 2014 
will be to contain costs so that margins and cash generation 
are maximised. The finance department, in particular, is 
exploring synergies to optimise systems.
We are happy to reward our shareholders by proposing that 
we recommence our dividend payment this year.
With a solid platform for growth having been established, in 
the longer term Pan African Resources may prudently seek 
out further acquisitions that can be profitably operated within 
our business model.
Appreciation and the road ahead
The board wishes to extend our sincere appreciation to our 
former CEO, Jan Nelson, who resigned during the current 
year. Jan's contribution to our business was significant, and his 
legacy remains.
The bedrock of Pan African Resources remains our workforce 
- the men and women who daily competently go about their 
duties, often under physically challenging circumstances - 
to ensure that our gold arrives safely at its end destination. 
That we are able to announce such excellent results is their 
success, as much as it is the executive and your board. I would 
also like to extend my appreciation to the board for their 
support during the year.
For the immediate future, the board and management remain 
realistically confident. Experienced in mining and business, we 
have lived through boom and gloom economic cycles, and 
manage the Group accordingly. We believe that Pan African 
Resources has the business model and controls to continue 
viable operations through all foreseeable economic cycles.
Keith Spencer
Chairman 
16 September 2013
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
continued Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 13
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS