 Chairman's Statement
2 Parity Report & Accounts 2004
GROUP OVERVIEW AND RESULTS
Results
In the financial year to 31 December 2004, Parity Group plc reported revenues of  169.9m (2003:  158.9m
restated and excluding discontinued operations) and losses before goodwill amortisation and tax of  6.3m (2003:
 18.1m). Net debt at the year end was  13.7m (2003:  12.0m). The loss after goodwill amortisation and tax was
 6.4m (2003:  15.6m) giving a basic loss per share of 2.24 pence compared to 7.70 pence in the previous period.
Dividend
The Board will not be recommending the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December
2004 (2003: 0.03p per share). No interim dividend was paid (2003: nil). This policy will be reviewed when cash
resources allow.
Review
The last few years have clearly not been satisfactory with the Group reporting significant losses, regular
restructuring charges and significant net cash outflows. Consequently, when I became Chairman at the end of last
year I initiated a wide-ranging review of Parity's operations. This was completed on schedule and the detailed
recommendations have been accepted by the Board. The key elements are summarised below.
The Group's past business strategy of moving towards larger contracts and managed services reflected industry
trends and was sensible in principle but required more careful implementation. The significant additional
overheads resulting from the strategy did not in general produce profitable business but did reduce available sales
effort for core business. This redirection of sales effort produced disappointing results in Training last year in its core
public course business. Reduced sales effort in Business Solutions and prudent revenue recognition on one
particular project resulted in a breakeven second half and a low order book at the year end.
The UK and mainland Europe Resourcing Solutions businesses both saw good growth in improved market
conditions. Margins were still tight in the UK but less so abroad where a significant investment in sales staff in the
last quarter reduced profits. The US business moved into profit by good cost control and elimination of low margin
and risky business.
The Way Forward
My objective following the review has been to create a business plan to ensure that Parity once again addresses
the IT services market with an attractive, competitive offering, has a suitable overhead structure which is
appropriate to the Group's size and scale, and a culture that encourages prudent budgeting and setting of
expectations.  As well as reducing debt, this plan must generate shareholder value by turning Parity into a growing,
profitable, cash generative business.
Exceptional Costs
One of the initial findings of the review was that a degree of cost cutting was required, particularly at the centre,
to bring overheads more in line with the Group's current size. As a first step we announced and have largely
implemented a cost reduction programme which in particular included reducing staff numbers by over fifty and
moving our head office into smaller temporary accommodation.
New Corporate Strategy
The future strategy of the Group must be to focus on the UK market with one coherent business with a number
of niche service offerings, within a single marketing message designed to be competitive in today's 
IT services market.  Parity Report & Accounts 2004 3
Market Strategy
The Group, uniquely for its size, can offer a one-stop shop for a wide range of IT services from consultancy to
training, resources and project development to full managed services. The Parity marketing message is therefore
clear and is one that is already proving to be a good sales differentiator. Users of IT services have in the past often
had to deal with a number of different suppliers for closely related services, involving unnecessary overhead costs
for the customer. Parity's competitive edge is its ability to make life simple for customers by providing a range of
services to meet their overall requirements.
Non-UK Businesses
These changes will mean that the mainland Europe Resourcing Solutions business is not central to our new strategy
and we are currently discussing a possible disposal with several parties, in full co-operation with the divisional
management who see the opportunity of increasing the scale of their growing business through a combination
with a larger group. This disposal will clearly reduce the level of debt in the Group.
The US business has established a management link to the UK Resourcing Solutions division which enables the
experience of this successful business to be transferred to the smaller US division. The strategic rationale for a US
operation has not been proved in recent years but with new management and organisation we are expecting
better performance ahead in an improving market, and the Board will review the strategic logic in the light of
progress made.
Reorganisation
The Group will therefore reorganise its UK operations this year. Group management becomes the UK management
in this new scenario. There are currently three independent divisions of differing sizes with separate management,
production, support functions, marketing and sales. We will now simplify the Group's structure, creating a number
of niche service offerings under one UK marketing umbrella. There will be overall market sector management and
coordination using a new Customer Relationship Management system installation, an area where we have
considerable technical expertise. We will concentrate on our customer relationships with coordinated account
management but retain specific sales activities in the individual service profit centres. We are also examining how
the IT infrastructure services provided to the Group can be better attuned to requirements.
We will ensure that account management is our keystone and that each division's services are made available to
all our clients in a co-ordinated manner. We will be a full service, integrated UK IT services business selling the
complete range of IT services individually or together as required by our customers. We will carefully evolve into
larger projects as we progress, when we can make sensible margins, and continue our drive into managed services
which is the direction that the market is moving. Our approach to change is evolution not revolution.
Creating one UK company managing all Parity's operations (post the European disposal) will allow considerable
simplification and the necessary significant cost savings going forward. The fruits of this strategy will not be visible
until next year.
Banking Facilities
It became clear early in my review that the level of debt was too high for the current size of the Group. The
proposed disposal of mainland Europe and the cost savings associated with the reorganisation of UK operations
will clearly help to address this issue and will reduce the future cash requirements of the Group. I am also pleased
to report that the committed revolving loan facility with the Group's principal bankers, Lloyds TSB, has been
successfully extended to the end of 2006.
Board Changes
Bill Cockburn retired as Chairman on 12 November 2004 having been appointed when I retired due to a serious
illness in 2001. I would like to thank Bill for his stewardship during this difficult period. Ian Miller, the former Group
Chief Executive, left the Board on 30 November 2004 and the Board asked me to assume an executive role in the
short term whilst I completed my review of the business.
Chairman's Statement continued 4 Parity Report & Accounts 2004
John Maxwell had indicated to the previous Chairman that he wished to stand down due to a heavy workload and
consequently will not stand for election at the AGM. John has been extremely helpful to me in understanding the
last few years, as has our other Non-executive Director Alastair MacDonald, and I thank them for their openness
and enthusiasm to improve performance. The Board intends to appoint at least one more Non-executive Director
this year.
I am very pleased to announce that John Hughes, until recently Chief Operating Officer of Thales Group where he
was responsible for their entire Information Technology and Services and Aerospace business areas, managing a
q4.5 billion P&L, will join the Board on 2 May 2005 and take over from me as Executive Chairman now that my
review is complete. I have known John for some years and we are fortunate that a person of his calibre is joining
our Board. I am confident that John and I can complete an orderly transition and subsequently work together on
the Board to continue the turn around of Parity - a vision we both share. We have discussed the new strategy in
detail in recent weeks and he will bring just the skills and experience that Parity needs to refine and enact the new
strategy and then drive the business forward over the years. I will step down to Deputy Chairman on a part-time
basis for this year and then move to a Non-executive role next year. 
It is with great sadness that I must inform you that Billy Carbutt who served as a Director of the Group from March
1994 to January 2004, acting as Chairman for three years during this period, has died after a long illness. We all
very much appreciated Billy's counsel when we were serving together on the Board and will miss his wisdom 
and humour.
Employees
I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued commitment and loyalty to the Group in what has
been a difficult few years. I hope that 2005 will be a year of change for the good, not only for our shareholders
but also for our employees whose enthusiasm to get the Company back to winning ways has been inspiring.
Current Trading and Prospects 
The Resourcing Solutions businesses in the UK and mainland Europe have continued to expand profitably this year
in similar market conditions to last year. The Training division is recovering from its setback in the second half of
last year, and is expecting to improve steadily through this year. Business Solutions looks to grow its order backlog
in 2005 and will particularly benefit from the restructuring outlined above in returning to full health. There are
signs of recovery in the US market and optimism in our US business for the first time for several years.
Central costs have been much reduced but given a high interest charge, contributions to the defined benefit
pension deficit and goodwill amortisation, the Group cannot expect to return to overall profitability in 2005. The
Board believes that the strategic and reorganisational changes will be of significant benefit in taking the Group
forward with further cost cuts, lower debt and a return to overall growth in a simpler business model.  Clearly 2005
will be a year of restructuring but the Board expects that the changes will then enable Parity to move into 2006
in much better shape. 
Philip Swinstead OBE
Chairman
19 April 2005
Chairman's Statement continued