 Parity Group plc
Report and Accounts 2013
www.parity.net
stock code: PTY
02
// P f
2013 Results
I am pleased to report further progress in 2013 with an increase 
in both Group revenue, and profit before tax and non-recurring 
items. Revenues were up 7.1% at  91.95m (2012:  85.89m) 
and adjusted EBITDA increased to  2.53m (2012:  1.39m). 
Operating profit before non-recurring items was  1.06m 
(2012:  0.65m).
Central costs reduced to  4.68m (2012:  4.95m). In 2014 a 
large proportion of central costs will be delegated to the 
divisions which will be held directly accountable for those costs. 
As a result, it is anticipated that further operational efficiencies 
will be forthcoming. 
We have completed the re-structuring of the Group into two 
independent divisions, Parity Professionals and Parity Digital 
Solutions, which we for the first time report separately in these 
accounts. We have invested substantially in people, systems 
and hardware to support our plans for growth under the new 
divisional structure. 
Parity Professionals increased its revenues in an improving 
market in the second half of 2013; with margins starting to 
move upward in the past few months. The Talent Management 
business grew slowly in the second half due to delays in 
educational spending; but also with some encouraging signs 
late in the year.
Revenues in Parity Digital Solutions were stable. Good growth 
at Inition, the 3D experiential specialist business, was balanced 
by Systems revenues which reduced in an over-supplied 
market. Both, however, produced improved operating profits.
Before non-recurring items and tax the Group returned a profit 
of  0.65m (2012:  0.28m). Non-recurring items were  1.18m 
(2012:  1.22m) representing property provisions, restructuring 
and transaction costs. We expect a significant reduction in this 
area in 2014. Group loss for the year was  1.65m (2012: 
 1.39m) and was after non-recurring costs of  1.6m, strategic 
initiative costs of  1.1m, and a deferred tax charge of  0.7m all 
of which will significantly reduce in 2014.
Cash, Dividend and Pension
Cash at year end increased to  7.38m (2012:  2.87m). There 
was a share Placing to the net value of  6.5m at the time of the 
Group's move to AIM in July.
Banking arrangements with PNC  have been in place since 
2010, and the asset backed lending facility of up to  15m has 
been extended until December 2016.
Due to the continuing financial improvement of the Group, it has 
been possible to re-negotiate with the trustees of the Parity Group 
Retirement Plan, improvements to the assumptions underlying the 
valuation of pension scheme liabilities.  The outcome of these 
negotiations was a significant fall in the deficit on a technical 
provisions basis and as a consequence, a substantial reduction in 
future annual payments.  On an annualised basis these payments 
have now fallen from  1.09m to  0.68m but will be subject to a 
5% per annum increase each August. 
No dividend is payable for this year but the Board will keep the 
policy under review.
Move to AIM, Placing and Change of NOMAD
On 5th July 2013 the Group's shares commenced trading on 
the AIM market and their Official Listing was cancelled. The 
Board believes the AIM market is more suitable for the 
Company's current stage of development. At that time a 
Placing of 25,925,926 new Ordinary Shares was completed at 
a price of 27 pence raising  6.5m net.
On 23rd September the Group announced the appointment of 
Investec as its new Nominated Adviser and Broker.
Group Structure
The Group has implemented a new divisional structure in 2013 
to better reflect, internally and externally, the different interests 
of the two parts of its business. This is now the reporting 
structure of the Group. 
Parity Professionals, the largest division, contains the Parity 
Resources and Talent Management businesses. 
Parity Digital Solutions contains the Group's systems integration 
business and its first acquisition, Inition, which has now earned 
its first year earn-out payment of  0.5m based on operating 
profit to 31 March 2013. Performance has continued to 
improve towards the likely achievement of its second year 
earn-out target. 
Divisional results and current trading are discussed in the 
Operational Review.
Changes to the Main Board
On 26th September the Group announced a number of Board 
changes -
  Philip Swinstead became Executive Chairman from 
1st October to drive the Group's digital strategy, now that the 
base business has achieved financial stability. Paul Davies 
remains as Group CEO and Alastair Woolley as Group FD.
  Mike Phillips, a non-executive director since 3rd November 
2011 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 22nd 
November 2011 has, as a result of other commitments, 
stepped down from the Board. The Board thanks him for his 
contribution and wishes him every success.
  Neal Ransome, MA FCA CF, aged 53, joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and took over from Mike Phillips as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Neal had recently retired 
from PwC, where he was a Corporate Finance Partner and 
Chief Operating Officer of PwC's Advisory line of service.
  Due to the evolution of our strategic thinking, Stephen Whyte 
resigned as a director and executive in September 2013.
  Sir Peter Luff MP , FCIPR, aged 58, joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director. Peter was previously the Managing 
Director of a leading public affairs company, is currently a 
Member of Parliament and was Minister for Defence 
Equipment, Support and Technology from 2010-12. 
  Suzanne Chase continued as our General Counsel but 
stepped down as a Director and took over the role of 
Company Secretary from Alastair Woolley.
Chairman's Statement
Philip Swinstead
231526 PARITY.indd   02 231526 PARITY.indd   02 22/04/2014   18:53 22/04/2014   18:53 03
 Strategic Report  Governance Financials
// P f
Strategy
The Group has two distinct business divisions; with separate 
missions and strategies to achieve them.
Parity Professionals' mission is to be a premium supplier 
working closely with clients to source and develop talent, 
building capacity and capability to improve individual and 
organizational performance.
  The IT staffing business has broken down its offering into 
segments which are offered on a unique Resources as a 
Service basis. 
  The Group has invested in expanding the training and career 
development offering of the Talent Management business 
across the UK from its traditional Northern Irish market.
Parity Digital Solutions is the base for the Group's technology 
systems offering, which has been retargeted to the digital 
marketing world. The IT services market is mature and one in 
which it is difficult for a small systems business to grow. 
However, the Board identified an opportunity to transfer the 
Group's experience of project management and business 
process to a marketing context as digital technology claims an 
increasing share of market spend.
  The Group has indicated since 2011 that it is looking to 
re-focus its systems integration capabilities into this new 
market by both acquisition of key skills and market position, 
and organic growth.
  With the successful acquisition and profit improvement of 
the 3D specialist Inition, the Group has demonstrated the 
relevance of its management skills to the new market.
  In a change of tactics the Board has decided that 
shareholder value can be best increased by further smaller 
acquisitions to create the skill base needed to grow a 
significant new style of technology services business in the 
digital marketing field; neither an advertising agency nor a 
digital agency.
The division has also been seeking to increase its own 
top management capabilities from the advertising and 
marketing world.
  Given his highly successful top level background in 
international marketing, the Board is pleased to announce 
the appointment of Andy Law as Chairman of the division on 
a three days a week basis. Andy has held senior positions at 
many of the top advertising agencies including Board 
Director at CDP and led the buyout from Omnicom of Chiat/
Day creating the groundbreaking agency, St Lukes, which 
became one of London's leading agencies. He is also a 
successful writer and international speaker - including 
chairing sessions at Davos.
  I am also pleased to report today the appointment of Mark 
Andrews as CEO of this division. Mark is a highly experienced 
MD in the TV commercial and video production world. He 
started as a graphics designer and then commercial producer, 
becoming main board Head of TV at major award winning 
agency, CDP , and then MD at the world' s largest video/
commercial production company, Propaganda Films. In 1997 
he founded T sunami Films and then left in 2003 to become 
founder and proprietor of the MADE group.
The Group's TechLab joint venture with Royal Holloway and 
Bedford New College has now entered the commercialization 
phase. The Groupseer next-generation, patented, social media 
search engine now has a joint team working on ensuring that it 
has all the necessary functions, is fully tested and has a fluid 
interface. In parallel, early market feedback will be sought from 
selected potential users in a few target areas. 
Current Trading and Future Prospects
The Group continues to trade in line with management expectations.
Parity Professionals is seeing the early signs of improvement in 
its market and margins, as hiring levels begin to rise. The Board 
is looking to this division to grow revenues and profits in future 
years, under the leadership of CEO, Alan Rommel, who along 
with other senior management, has experience of leading the 
business through a similar stage of the recovery cycle.
Parity Digital Solutions will be renamed in 2014 to reflect its new 
strategic direction. Inition is now operating with good margins 
and is investing in its marketing capabilities to build on the 
increased recognition of its augmented and virtual reality 
solutions. Under its strong management team, the division will 
seek to further extend its services into Digital Content 
Management and Content Production. We expect to make 
further small acquisitions this year to put the necessary skills in 
place and allow the expanded management team to grow the 
business offerings in a rapidly developing market.
2014 will see the end of nearly all of our unused property 
leases and the significant cash burden they impose. This 
together with reduced pension deficit payments, will 
significantly reduce our cash outflow and contribute towards 
the Group becoming cash generative.
After three tough years turning round the business, the good 
health, management and forecast market growth for both our 
divisions allows the Board to be confident about further 
improvement in shareholder value in 2014 and future years.
Philip Swinstead
Chairman
12 March 2014
231526 PARITY.indd   03 231526 PARITY.indd   03 22/04/2014   18:53 22/04/2014   18:53