 2
As you are probably aware the Group has
been through a very challenging period,
involving not only difficult trading conditions
but also an investigation by Ofcom into the
level of charges for incoming calls and
whether its agreements with NHS trusts
infringed competition law.  The Group was
exonerated of making excessive charges for
incoming calls, but Ofcom remained
concerned about the level of charges and
wrote to the Secretary of State for Health
recommending a review of all aspects of the
structure established by the Government
under the Patient Power Programme, with a
specific objective that incoming call charges be
substantially reduced.  At the same time that
Ofcom opened its investigation last July the
Group announced a profits warning as a result
of weaker than expected revenues. The share
price of your Group also suffered a substantial
decline during the year.  Not surprisingly all of
this led to shareholder unrest which
culminated in the resignation of Derek Lewis
as Chairman and my appointment. 
Whilst the circumstances of my appointment
were as a result of difficulties facing the
business, I am very much looking forward to
the challenge of restoring shareholder value.
One of my first observations is that we have
a dedicated team of employees who are
committed to revitalising the business and
that they are critical to our success.
Trading
Group revenue for the year improved to
 55.4 million, an increase of 12% (2005
 49.4 million). The loss before taxation and
exceptional charges was  11.3 million (2005
 11.5 million) and  24.7 million after
exceptional charges. EBITDA pre-exceptional
charges grew to  19.3 million, an increase of
20% (2005  16.1 million).  Cash generated
from operations improved to  20.9 million
compared to  16.7 million in 2005.
Favourable movements in working capital
balances contributed to this improvement. 
Group net borrowings increased to  85.7
million. We have a good relationship with
our syndicate of banks led by The Royal
Bank of Scotland. The other banks within
the syndicate are HBOS, HSBC and IKB.
There will need to be changes to certain
terms within the credit facility before the
interim results announcement in November
2006 to reflect the outcome of the
Department of Health Review Group and
longer-term performance expectations. 
Challenges facing the Group
  The Ofcom investigation, with the
associated negative press, has had a
detrimental impact on Patientline.
Ofcom referred the matter to the
Department of Health (DH) for review,
which is continuing.  The majority of
investment in UK hospitals was halted
when the Ofcom investigation was
announced and this curtailed the growth
in the number of terminals installed.
Since my appointment I have generally
maintained that position. The DH set up
the Patient Power Review Group (PPRG)
in January with specific terms of
reference and the PPRG is due to make
its recommendations to Ministers by the
end of June. Ministers will then consider
those recommendations before making
their decisions. Patientline is a member of
the PPRG and is working closely with the
DH to achieve a satisfactory outcome for
all parties.
  The Ofcom investigation has resulted in a
reluctance by some patients to use our
systems, due to their perception that all
aspects of our service are expensive and
not just the incoming call charge.
  Ward closures and an increasing number
of empty beds have reduced the number
of terminals being used.
  The relaxation by some trusts of their
policy regarding the use of mobile phones
within hospitals, despite concerns relating
to patient privacy (especially given the
photographic capability of most modern
mobile phones) and to the intrusion into
what should be a quiet environment, has
also affected performance.
All of the above have had a significant
impact on the performance in the UK.
Average revenue per terminal per day
decreased by 7% from  1.87 in the prior
year to  1.73 and this decline has continued
into the new financial year with the level of
revenue per terminal per day for the first
two months running at 7% below the
comparable prior year period.
UK operation
Our UK business, Patientline UK Limited,
delivered turnover up 10% at  47.8 million.
This reflects primarily the 17% increase in
the average number of installed terminals
partially offset by the impact of the matters
described above.  EBITDA pre-exceptional
charges was  18.4 million, an increase of
31% over prior year.  The operating loss
before exceptional charges showed an
improvement, reducing by 31% to  3.7
million.  The benefit of higher sales was
partially offset by the costs of additional
resources to resolve reliability issues.  An
exceptional charge of  13.4 million was
recognised primarily in respect of the
impairment of the UK asset base as detailed
in the financial statements. By the year end,
our UK business had some 74,700 terminals
installed at 157 hospital sites.             
Overseas operations
Operations in the Rest of Europe primarily
comprise our Dutch business, Patientline BV.
This performed well during the year with
turnover rising by 16% to  6.8 million,
helped by the acquisition of Hospitaal
Televisie Service (HTS) in July 2005. EBITDA
for the Rest of Europe increased by 3% to
Chairman's Statement 3
Patientline plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
Chairman's Statement (continued)
 2.4 million after reflecting costs incurred in
establishing a French distributor, Codiam.
Growth in EBITDA before these costs and
before exchange movements arising on
translation was 21%.  After reflecting higher
depreciation, reported operating profit for
our business in the Rest of Europe declined
by 23% to  1.1 million (2005  1.4 million).
The average number of installed terminals
rose to 18,121 representing an uplift of
19%. The business signed 13 new hospital
contracts and acquired the operations and
assets of its main competitor in Holland for
 0.4 million which brought in a further 7
hospitals comprising 2,867 beds.
In North America, the anticipated signing of
a major new contract was not achieved but
further installations at existing sites together
with one new contract were delivered.
Turnover for the year was  0.8 million
which, after allowing for the costs of
systems development work undertaken in
the UK and the increased investment in the
local management, resulted in an operating
loss of  1.5 million.
Strategy
Together with my colleagues, I am now
conducting an in depth review of our
strategy and all our operations. The objective
of this review is to improve services we offer
to patients and hospitals and to increase the
utilisation of our terminals; to achieve
operating efficiencies; to enhance reliability
of our equipment; to determine a strategy
for technological development and to reduce
debt.  The outcome of my review will
inevitably be influenced by the outcome of
the Department of Health Review.  These
actions will benefit all of our stakeholders
from patients and hospitals to shareholders.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Barclay Douglas
and Nick Winks to the Board. Barclay has
considerable and relevant business
experience and has particular expertise in
company funding. I have worked with Nick
in the past and his skill for enhancing
performance will be essential as we develop
and introduce the new strategy. Already they
have both begun to make a significant
contribution to the Group. In addition Colin
Babb joined the Board in February and has
introduced many initiatives to improve our
operations in the UK.
Per Jonsson left the Board in February. Derek
Lewis retired from the Board, as Chairman, in
April but has continued to assist the Group
with the DH review. His contribution to this
vital exercise is very much appreciated.
Sir Alan Langlands resigned from the Board
in February after 5 years service as a Director.
Sir Alan was a member of the Remuneration,
Nomination and Audit Committees.  I should
like to thank Sir Alan for his valuable
contribution and commitment.
Mair Barnes resigned from the Board in
April. Mair was the Senior Independent
Director, served as Chair of the
Remuneration Committee and was a
member of the Audit and Nomination
Committees. I would like to thank her for
her hard work and commitment. I wish her
well in the future.
Following the EGM on 5th April, 2006 a
number of major shareholders have
expressed the view that they feel that a
completely new set of Non-Executive
Directors would be beneficial for the Group.
In these circumstances Ross Graham has
agreed to stand down as a Director from the
date of the AGM. Ross has, since his
appointment in February 2005, served as
Chair of the Audit Committee and been a
member of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees. I should like to
thank Ross for his dedication and resolve
during a difficult period for the Group and
to wish him well in his future endeavours. 
We will be reviewing the skill set required by
the Board and looking to make a further Non-
Executive Director appointment in due course.
Outlook
Both revenue per terminal and usage in the
UK during the first two months of the new
financial year have been below prior year
levels.  Ward closures have continued and
the number of installed terminals has
declined 2% since the year end as units are
decommissioned and taken out of service.
New capital investment remains at low levels
and driven on stringent cash payback metrics
which should provide the basis for cash
generation and repayment of borrowings.
New initiatives to enhance customer service
and to improve efficiencies will be introduced
progressively during the year.            
The Group faces major challenges, but
with the dedicated and focused support of
all our employees I am confident that we
can improve the services which we offer to
our customers and begin to restore
shareholder value.
Geoff White
Group Chairman
13 June 2006