 Chairman's statement 1
Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2005
I joined the Board in December 2004 and
became Chairman on 3rd February 2005.
On 21st February we announced that 
Suzie Mumm  had stepped down as Chief
Executive and that Gary Browning had been
appointed in her stead. In February and
March we completed a vigorous programme
to restructure the Company to ensure that it
can provide both the highest quality of
service to clients and a good and growing
level of profitability. As a result of these
measures we began the new financial year
on 1st April 2005 with costs, on an
annualised basis,  3.6m lower than the
same time last year.
The long established strengths of Penna 
are its client focus and the commitment 
to act at all times with the highest level of
integrity. Penna people are recognised to 
be the leaders in each sector in which we 
operate and the resources we provide to
support them are second to none. The
Company has the ability to emerge as the
leading human resource group in the UK
and we are embarking on an ambitious plan
to achieve this goal.
An exciting first step is our entry into
Recruitment Advertising announced on 23rd
May. Penna Recruitment Communications
will be a full service Advertising agency 
and will provide clients with highly creative
and cost effective approaches to recruitment
through all types of media including
particularly the Press and the Internet.
We have taken the opportunity to appoint
some of the most outstanding and
successful people in the sector. We expect
that the new Agency will make a significant
contribution to Penna profits in the 2006/07
financial year.
Penna are a trusted partner. Most importantly
they do what they say they are going to do.
They also work in a way that is consistent with
what is important to us,  looking after staff so
that they can look after our customers'.
Clare Chapman, Director Group HR, Tesco
Stephen Rowlinson
Chairman
51845 Annual Report  7/21/05  1:05 PM  Page 1 2 Chairman's statement
Gary Browning
Chief Executive
Total revenues for the year amounted to
 41.8m, which was down 3% compared
with 2004.
At the operating level the group reported
nominal profits. This was before restructuring
costs, goodwill amortisation and impairment,
and interest costs of, in total,  7.2m.
The board will not recommend payment of a
final dividend in respect of the financial year
to 31 March 2005 (2004: total 3.6p).
At 31 March 2005 the Group had net debt
(including loan notes) of  3.5m (2004:
 4.1m), which includes a cash balance of
 1.7m on restricted deposit to guarantee
the payment of the issued loan notes. Capital
expenditure of  0.7m in the year has been
made on improvements in the Group's office
network and in technology infrastructure.
Revenues for our career transition services
have reduced by 25% in the year to  18.9m
(2004:  25.3m). The company's business
model of using associates for delivery has
helped to mitigate the impact of this fall in
direct contribution.
We announced in September 2004 that 
we have replaced our current international
career management partnership with an
alliance with Lee Hecht Harrison (LHH ),
a leading global career management
services company and subsidiary of Adecco
SA. This new arrangement will be a mutually 
Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2005
Feedback from line managers across all our sites was extremely 
positive in terms of Penna's responsiveness, their pro-active approach
and capability to provide up to date progress reports on all individuals.
They consistently make us feel that we are a highly valued customer
and invest a significant amount of effort into account management 
to ensure that service delivery always runs as smoothly as possible.
Karen Hargreaves, Procurement Manager, Unilever UK
51845 Annual Report  7/21/05  1:05 PM  Page 2 Chairman's statement 3
Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2005
beneficial partnership founded on Lee Hecht
Harrison's and Penna's common aim to be
the premier international career transition
providers and deliver superior performance
to global clients. We have begun to see the
benefits of this new alliance and are bidding
jointly for a number of large international
contracts, the financial benefits of which
should materialise later in the year.
Our resourcing activities have seen good 
top line growth primarily due to a significant
increase in our executive interim activities,
where total gross revenues have grown to
 10.3m (2004:  3.9m). Our search and
selection business has reported revenues 
of  7.8m (2004:  7.8m), which is at similar
levels to last year.
Our other consulting services, which include
HR consulting, organisation development,
employee communication, assessment,
executive development and executive
coaching have contributed revenues of
 5.1m (2004:  6.3m), reflecting primarily
the absence of the larger contracts that we
delivered in the previous year.
Approximately 7% of the Group's revenues
are delivered outside of the UK and we 
have permanent offices in Dublin, Paris,
Stockholm, Madrid and Munich. Whilst small
in scale these operations provide Penna's
clients with the international reach they
need, especially in resourcing and
developing local talent.
In accordance with FRS 11 we have looked
carefully at the carrying value of the goodwill
attributed to acquisitions made since 1998.
We have adjusted the valuation of these
businesses in line with current market
conditions and have recognised a goodwill
impairment charge of  0.5m. In addition 
we incurred compensation and redundancy
costs of  1.5m, and established a provision
of  2.9m relating to the costs of reducing
the number of permanent properties from
which we operate. Other one-off costs
relating to the restructuring project,
including asset write downs, total  0.9m.
The Penna Service in conjunction with the 
BP Resource Centre has been instrumental 
in assisting employees through a substantial
period of change. Penna have met individual
client needs by providing specialist consultants
and workshops supported by their external
business team. A true measure of success has
been the employees' appreciation of the service.
Fiona Ward, BP Resource Centre, Petrochemicals
51845 Annual Report  7/21/05  1:05 PM  Page 3 4 Chairman's statement
Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2005
David Firth
Finance Director
Under Gary Browning's leadership the new
management team is making considerable
progress in marketing the Group's services
and controlling costs. Our services are
grouped into six areas covering the entire
employment cycle.
  Recruitment communications
  Resourcing (executive search 
and selection)
  Executive interim
  Leadership services (executive
coaching and development)
  HR Consulting
  Career Transition (outplacement 
and career management) 
These service lines have been given greater
accountability for client service and revenues
than in the recent past, we will however
ensure that Penna's ability to marshal a
whole range of services from across the firm
to meet clients' needs will be maintained
and refined. The management team is
focused on improving operating profits 
and margins and increasing cost flexibility,
particularly in the area of people and
property. The Group now operates from
twelve regional centres capable of providing
clients and staff with all the resources they
need to deliver all our services.
Suzie Mumm  and Allen Thomas have
indicated that they will stand down from 
the Board at the Annual General Meeting 
in September. They have served on the Board
for 9 and 11 years respectively and we
thank them for their considerable
contributions to the Company.
I am very pleased to confirm that preliminary
indications for April and May, the first two
months of the new financial year, are
consistent with our plans and we are
looking forward to the next phase of the
Company's development with confidence.
Stephen Rowlinson
Chairman
11 July 2005
We remain very happy with the
quality and responsiveness of the
service we receive from Penna.
For almost 10 years now they have
provided employees leaving our
company with an extremely effective
series of programmes to help them
find their right next role.
Ian Muir, VP Group HR Policy, Cable & Wireless plc 
51845 Annual Report  7/21/05  1:05 PM  Page 4 Chairman's statement 5
Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2005
We gave Penna a demanding brief:
to produce an advert response and 
a candidate shortlist to a very tight
deadline. Penna delivered. We were
soon able to appoint a new Finance
Director, who came with excellent
references. Throughout, Penna
demonstrated excellent market
knowledge and dedicated approach.
Provalis 
When AstraZeneca was created by merger, Penna supported us 
in 24 countries, providing outplacement and career coaching to
1,200 of our people. Penna works closely with us to understand
our business and people issues, delivering professional services of
a consistently high quality that help us to achieve our objectives.
Tim Wood, Director Staffing, AstraZeneca UK
51845 Annual Report  7/21/05  1:05 PM  Page 5