 PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC
Page 2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW.
I am pleased to report that 2012 has seen a step change in the performance of the Group. This change has 
been driven mainly by the Training Systems Division strongly supported by the Software and Data 
Services Divisions that have also achieved significant increases in revenue and profit.
I am also pleased to report that the Training Systems Division has, since the year end, been awarded a 
contract with a value of approximately  16 million over five years with potential for extensions up to 20 
years. The contract is for the supply, maintenance and support of a suite of training aids and is the largest 
ever won by the Group. It will provide high quality earnings and good forward visibility.
In addition, the pipeline remains strong and there is on-going dialogue with prime contractors and other 
customers in respect of potential major contracts for the short, medium and long term. 
Results and Dividend
Revenues for the year grew by 40% to  14.47 million (2011:  10.35 million) and operating profit more 
than doubled to  1.60 million (2011:  0.71million) being 11% of revenue (2011:  6.8% of revenue). 
Basic earnings per share increased by 124% to 4.46p (2011: 1.99p).
Cash generated from operations was  0.8 million (2011:  2.2 million). The Group has no borrowings and 
at the year-end had cash funds of  2.17 million (2011:  2.34 million).
Your Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 1.4p per share which, together with the 
interim dividend of 0.6p, gives total dividends for the year of 2.0p (2011: 1.5p), an increase of 33%
compared to the previous year. The final dividend will be paid on 19 April 2013 to shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 2 April 2013. The ex-dividend date will be 27 March 2013.
Strategy
We are continuing our successful strategy of building shareholder value through organic growth.
The Group operates mainly in the defence market but also has a presence in the rail and power generation 
sectors and with Governments around the world. In these markets contracts usually have long gestation 
periods requiring a strategy that looks to the medium term and beyond.
A common approach has been applied across the Group; the main objectives are:
 To build close relationships with original equipment manufacturers, prime contractors and other 
customers, both before and after contract award, to better understand their requirements and to 
become their partner of choice.
 To continue to develop our products and services to ensure that they satisfy the demands of the 
market using current technology and standards.
 To increase the number of long-term support contracts to provide on-going revenue streams and 
earnings visibility.
This strategy has proved successful generating recent major contract awards and continues to provide a 
strong pipeline of opportunities. The current order book is expected to realise  25 million. PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC
Page 3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued).
Current Trading
The Group is managed in three operating divisions all of which are growing and profitable. They are dealt 
with separately below.
Training Systems Division
The Training Systems Division has been the main engine of growth for the Group and your Board 
believes it has significant potential for further growth.  Revenues increased by 61% to  8.7 million (2011: 
 5.4 million) during the year and the contribution to Group operating profit more than doubled.
The Division provides and supports specialist training systems based on software emulation, hardware 
simulation, virtual reality and computer based training principally in the defence sector. The main areas in 
which opportunities arise in this market and which lead your Board to believe that there is significant 
opportunity for growth are:
 The continuing development of new platforms and the upgrade of existing platforms by original 
equipment manufacturers requiring either new training aids or upgrading of existing training 
solutions.
 The growing trend for defence forces to look at outsourcing training services. A good example of 
this is the contract in Australia for the Aviation Technical Training at RAAF Wagga. 
 A continued move towards simulation in training programmes as it saves costs compared to the 
use of the actual equipment and reduces risk.
The Division has been working on a number of contracts in the UK but with UK Government budgets 
constrained we are actively pursuing a number of opportunities in other regions of the world. Contracts 
have recently been won for delivery to Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Oman.  
During the year work has continued on the major  12 million contract with AgustaWestland for the 
development of Maintenance Training Equipment for the AW159 Lynx Wildcat helicopter. This contract 
will contribute significantly in 2013 with delivery expected during the second half. 
Contracts successfully completed during the year include:
 The upgrade of the Virtual Reality Parachute Trainer (VRPT) for the UK Ministry of Defence 
( UK MOD' )and the supply of a deployable version of that trainer.
 The upgrade of the Synthetic Environment Procedures Trainer (SEPT), also for the UK MOD, to 
teach the marshalling of aircraft. 
The Division has won the Group's largest ever contract. The five year contract provides for annual one-
year extensions up to 20 years. Pennant will supply a suite of leading-edge training aids including 
simulation, virtual reality, computer based training and related support services with a total value of 
approximately  16 million. The training aids will be delivered during the first 2 years with support 
revenues running for the remainder of the term. PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC
Page 4
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued).
Other contracts won include:
 A contract with a value in excess of  1.5 million for delivery to the Singapore Defence, Science 
and Technology Agency of a Parachute Flight Simulation System ( PFS'). This contract will 
further develop our understanding and expertise in parachute training. It will run through 2013 
and into 2014.
 A contract with BAE Systems with a value of approximately  1.4 million for the supply a number 
of off-the-shelf training devices to Saudi Arabia as part of the upgrade of their Technical Studies 
Institute. This contract will run into the second half of 2013.
In my report with the interim results I mentioned that the UK MOD were tendering a contract for the 
support of training aids at a number of MOD training establishments in the UK. This contract combined 
the Group's existing contracts with contracts run by other contractors. The tender has now been submitted 
and the result is expected in the near future.
Data Services Division
The Data Services Division has had a successful and profitable year with revenues increasing by 31% to 
 2.8 million (2011:  2.1 million).
The division provides high quality media, graphics, virtual reality software and technical documentation 
to the defence, rail, power and government sectors. 
The division has continued to develop its expertise in virtual reality and has worked with the Training 
Systems Division providing the virtual reality software for the VRPT and the SEPT. It is currently 
developing the software for the PFS for Singapore.
Other major contracts running through the year included:
 Continuing work on the supply of operator and maintainer manuals, training material and training 
delivery in support of a major US programme for the supply of rolling stock. The work runs into 
the first half of 2013 with training delivery running through to 2015.
 In the power sector, a major contract was completed for ALSTOM Power in Switzerland to 
produce Operator and Maintenance Documentation for the auxiliary systems associated with the 
GT24 Gas Turbine.
 Work has continued on the Professional Services Agreement with Capgemini UK PLC 
developing the next generation Basic PAYE Tools to support the introduction of Her Majesty's 
Revenue and Customs Real Time Information into the PAYE process from April 2013. It is 
expected that each year two new editions will be released in February and April to reflect changes 
made by the Chancellor in his budget statements. PENNANT INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC
Page 5
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW (Continued).
Software Services Division
The Software Services Division has also had a successful and profitable year with revenues increasing by 
9% to  3.7 million (2011: 3.4 million).
The Division has offices in Canada, Australia and UK. It owns the rights to the market leading OmegaPS 
suite of software which is sold worldwide and used by many major defence contractors and by the defence 
authorities in Canada and Australia to support complex long life assets. Revenues are generated from the 
sale of licences, associated maintenance agreements and consultancy. The product is regularly updated to 
keep it in line with industry standards and changing technology. Regular updates are issued to users.
During the year new licence sales were made to Oshkosh Trucks Corporation and Rheinmetall. Licences 
are sold with associated annual maintenance agreements that provide an on-going revenue stream.
The Canadian office had a particularly good year. They have a contract with the Canadian Department of 
National Defence (DND) to provide specialist consultant support to maximise the use of OmegaPS within 
the DND. The contract is a 5 year contract that it now in its penultimate year. During the year the value of 
the contract was substantially increased due to the high demand for the services. The remaining value of 
this contract is approximately C$3.6 million.
Work has also continued in Canada on a consultancy agreement with Babcock Canada Inc. in support of 
Royal Canadian Navy projects. This contract has options to run out to 2015.
In Australia an extension for a further 2 years to the contract with the Australian Department of Defence, 
Defence Material Organisation to support OmegaPS is being negotiated.
People
The Group would not have achieved the growth it has shown in 2012 without the considerable 
commitment and expertise of the staff. They have responded superbly to significant challenges during the 
year and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their efforts.
Outlook
The Group is well placed with a record order book providing good visibility of revenues through 2013, 
2014 and beyond. Relationships with customers are good and the Group's products are well received. In
consequence, the pipeline is strong with good prospects for the short, medium and long term. Your Board 
is confident for the future.
C C Powell
Chairman
18 March 2013