 Business performance 
Group revenue was up by 10% to  1,321 million and 
profit before tax
(1)
 increased by 9.1%
(2)
 to  207 
million. We continue to maintain substantial cash 
resources and facilities to fund our capital 
programme and we ended the year with a record 
level of  1.3 billion (including  173 million of 
restricted funds).
South West Water
Despite another year of extreme weather events - a 
hot dry summer followed by storms over the winter 
- South West Water continued to deliver good 
operational performance against the K5 (2010-2015) 
regulatory contract. The company made further 
improvements to customer service and continued its 
delivery of efficiencies, all of which were reflected in 
strong financial results.
In December 2013 the company submitted its well 
evidenced and well-supported business plan, which 
met or exceeded all of Ofwat's assessment areas. 
As a consequence South West Water was the only 
water and sewerage company to have its business 
plan assessed as  enhanced', resulting in the receipt 
of an early Draft Determination on 30 April 2014. 
This allows the accelerated delivery of key projects. 
With the company's track record of efficiency and 
outperformance, South West Water is well placed to 
deliver its business plan in K6 (2015-2020) and will 
have an opportunity to outperform the assumed 
returns on equity.
Viridor
Financial performance before exceptional items at 
Viridor has been in line with management 
expectations. Notwithstanding the difficult trading 
conditions, Viridor's PBIT plus joint ventures is 
broadly similar to last year.
Recycling activities are focused on the production of 
high quality recyclate materials and management of 
the cost base to improve margins. The focus in the 
landfill energy business is to maximise the value of 
landfill gas generation across all Viridor's landfill sites, 
while managing the expected decline in landfill inputs 
by concentrating on strategic operational sites and 
optimising returns on other sites through alternative 
uses such as photovoltaic installations. 
Viridor is continuing to make strong progress with 
the construction of its growing Public Private 
Partnership (PPP)/Energy Recovery Facilities (ERFs) 
asset base with operations expected to commence 
at five facilities in 2014/15. We believe ERFs are 
central to the UK's waste and renewable energy 
strategies as the long-term, low-cost alternative to 
landfill for disposal of residual waste. Viridor expects 
to have a 15% market share by 2020 with a network 
of strategic facilities which will underpin the 
company's long-term profit growth.
To align the structure of the organisation with the 
strategy, the company has recently created two 
operating divisions: Recycling & Resources 
(comprising recycling, contracts and collection); and 
Energy (including ERFs, landfill energy and other 
renewable power).
Dividend 
The Board is committed to its policy to grow 
dividends for shareholders by 4% above inflation per 
annum up to the end of 2014/15. We will review the 
dividend policy for the next period following the Final 
Determination for South West Water and will make 
an announcement at the 2014/15 Preliminary 
Results. 
We are recommending a final dividend per share of 
20.92p, which represents a 6.2% increase on last 
year's final dividend. This will result in a total dividend 
for the year of 30.31p, an increase of 6.5% 
(reflecting inflation of 2.5%) on the total dividend for 
2012/13. Subject to obtaining shareholder approval 
at this year's Annual General Meeting, we will again 
be offering a Scrip Dividend Alternative to 
shareholders in respect of the final dividend. The 
timetable is given on page 160. 
Sustainability and governance 
Our strategic and sustainability reports set out our 
ongoing commitment to environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) matters and the Sustainability 
Committee of the Board continues to oversee our 
performance in maintaining a responsible approach 
to ESG. 
Notable achievements for South West Water during 
the year include best bathing water quality results for 
seven years, improved customer service and 
customer satisfaction levels, and the further delivery 
of sustainable catchment schemes. 
Viridor achieved a two star rating in the Business in 
the Community (BitC) annual Corporate 
Responsibility Index, and continued its strong 
progress in energy and water saving initiatives in line 
with its carbon reduction plan.
Dear Shareholder 
Chairman's statement
This has been a year of significant achievement 
for the Group.
(1) 
Before exceptional net charges  
(2) 
Comparatives restated for IAS 19 (Revised)
Strategic report - Strategic overview
6 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014     The Group's governance arrangements continue to be 
reviewed annually to ensure we develop and improve 
our governance structures and practices, taking 
account of market developments and new best 
practice guidance. 
South West Water has issued its own leadership, 
transparency and governance code in accordance 
with Ofwat's principles concerning the water industry 
relating to governance of boards, public trust and the 
transparency of companies. 
Health and safety 
We continue to focus on improvements in health and 
safety across our Group businesses. 
Tragically, while there has been a continued reduction 
in the number of reportable incidents, there was one 
very sad fatality in South West Water and our thoughts 
are with the family, friends and colleagues who have 
been deeply affected.
There was a very significant reduction in the number of 
reportable incidents in Viridor, reflecting the company's 
step-change approach to health and safety and 
increased focus on improving its performance in this 
area.
Board developments 
During the year Ian McAulay was appointed chief 
executive of Viridor and Executive Director of the 
Board upon Colin Drummond's retirement from both 
positions. Colin is now the non-executive chairman of 
Viridor.
Gerard Connell, the Senior Independent Director and 
chairman of the Audit Committee, has now been a 
Non-executive Director of the Company for over 10 
years and was due to retire at this year's Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). Accordingly the Nomination 
Committee has been seeking a suitable replacement 
for Gerard and it is anticipated that it will be possible to 
make an announcement about a successor shortly. 
However the new Non-executive Director will be 
unable to take up the appointment until after the AGM. 
The Board is of the view that a suitable handover 
period with Gerard is essential because the Company, 
subject to approval at the AGM, will be changing its 
external auditors and the new Non-executive Director 
is expected to take up the chairmanship of the Audit 
Committee. The Board therefore believes it would be 
in the interests of the Company and shareholders for 
Gerard to be re-appointed for a further year despite his 
period of office exceeding normal corporate 
governance standards. Gerard continues to 
demonstrate independence of character and 
judgement in the performance of his role, and his skills 
and experience continue to be valuable to the Board. 
Diversity 
The Board continues to promote diversity across the 
Group and in accordance with its diversity policy is 
focused by 2015 on once again achieving at least 
25% female representation on the Board, which we fell 
below after Dinah Nichols's retirement at last year's 
Annual General Meeting.
Our customers 
Provision of the highest possible levels of service to 
our customers is vitally important for both our 
businesses and is reflected in our Group strategy.
During the year South West Water was among the first 
of the water companies to introduce a social tariff 
aimed at its most hard-pressed customers. 
Viridor continues to partner its customers across all 
sectors by identifying the most robust and cost-
effective waste treatment options in a changing market 
and by continuing to focus on delivering vital 
infrastructure and quality services to provide essential 
renewable energy, resource recovery and waste 
management. 
Our employees 
The skills and commitment of our employees continue 
to be key to the success of our Group. We continue to 
engage with and provide opportunities for our 
employees to develop through a number of initiatives 
and strategies, details of which are given in the 
strategic report. I personally thank every one of them 
for their outstanding contribution to the Group and, in 
particular, I should like to congratulate all those staff 
involved in helping South West Water to achieve 
 enhanced' status for its business plan, which has 
resulted in the company being well placed for the K6 
regulatory period. 
In addition I am very grateful to my Board colleagues 
for their continuing support and significant contribution 
in what has been a successful twelve months. 
Outlook 
The Board's priority continues to be the creation of 
shareholder value through its strategic focus on water 
and sewerage services; and on recycling, renewable 
energy and waste management.
South West Water is continuing its strong 
performance, with robust operational delivery, high 
standards of customer service and financial 
performance and expects to complete the successful 
delivery of the K5 regulatory contract. The company 
has put in place a platform to deliver further efficiencies 
for K6 and, having now received its Draft 
Determination for the K6 period, preparations are 
underway for delivery of the K6 regulatory contract.
Viridor's financial performance before exceptional 
items over the year has been in line with management 
expectations. The company continues to make 
excellent progress in establishing its EfW business and 
securing base-load contracts, which already 
contribute to its bottom line and are expected to drive 
Viridor's long-term profit growth. 
The Group, with efficient long-term financing, 
continues to be well positioned for the future. We 
remain confident about the future success of our 
business. 
Ken Harvey
Chairman
Pennon Group Plc
23 June 2014
Strategic overview
South West Water
Viridor
Group
Governance
Financial statements
7 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2014