 OVERVIEW
10 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
These results highlight the strong 
operational and financial performance 
the Group has delivered this year. 
The Group has reported substantial 
increases in revenues and earnings 
whilst significantly expanding our rights 
portfolio, licensees, video streams and 
subscriber numbers. 
The Group is delighted to have 
supplemented its strong organic growth 
with two important acquisitions: 
In May 2012 the Group completed the 
acquisition of RunningBall adding delivery 
of best-in-class live sports data to the 
Group's existing live video, video-on-
demand and editorial content portfolio. In 
2012 RunningBall produced real-time data 
coverage of over 49,000 sporting events 
(including over 30,000 football matches ), 
producing over 1,000 items of data for 
each match. It currently engages more 
than 1,100 scouts in over 70 countries to 
gather real-time information on live sports 
events. RunningBall was acquired for 
 120 million, financed from existing cash 
resources, the issuance of 13.5 million new 
ordinary shares and by drawing down 
new debt facilities agreed with Bank of 
Ireland plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc. 
On 30 June 2012 the Group acquired 
an initial 51% stake in Mackolik which 
owns and operates a number of T urkey's 
leading independent sports websites, 
including mackolik.com and sahadan.
com. It is the market leader in digital 
sports media in T urkey, one of the world's 
most exciting growth territories. 
2012 was an exciting year for the Group 
with year on year revenue growth of 
47%, adjusted EBITDA growth of 103%, 
increasing international development 
and diversification of the business and a 
number of important acquisitions including 
RunningBall and Mackolik, all delivered 
against the backdrop of continued 
economic uncertainty . 
The Group has delivered a strong set 
of results with Group revenues of  151.6 
million (2011:  103.2 million ), adjusted 
EBITDA of  37 .5 million (2011:  18.5 million ), 
and adjusted basic earnings per share 
of 11.2p (2011: 6.3p ). The growth of the 
advertising and sponsorship business, 
both video and display, has been very 
impressive with revenues growing 130% 
year on year and these revenues now 
comprise 21% of the Group's total revenues 
compared to 13% in 2011.
Particular highlights include: 
   the continued growth of the Watch&Bet 
service with 40 bookmakers now 
licensing the service and 14,729 events 
delivered during the year;
   the international growth of the ePlayer , 
with the product now live in 24 territories 
and delivering over four billion streams 
across the year with a headline sell 
through rate of 39%; 
   The launch of 16 new editions of Goal 
with 28 million average monthly unique 
users across the year; and 
   the successful acquisition and 
integration of RunningBall and Mackolik 
In December , leading sports broadcaster 
and journalist Gabby Logan joined 
the Board as an Independent Non-
Executive Director . This appointment 
increased the number of Independent 
Non-Executive Directors on the Board 
to five; three Executives also sit on 
the Board together with one Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director . 
As a Chairman and as a Board we view 
governance as particularly important. 
The Board meets regularly to discuss 
strategy and holds the Executive team 
accountable for its execution whilst 
ensuring that the entrepreneurial 
culture that has seen the Group grow 
so successfully over the last few years 
is maintained wherever possible.
Looking ahead our priorities for 2013 
are clear . The Group will continue to 
execute its organic growth strategy 
and to seek complimentary acquisition 
opportunities. The Group will invest 
for the future, in particular in rights for 
the Watch&Bet service so it is best 
positioned for the licence renewals 
which will occur for the majority of 
licensees at the end of 2013, in new 
platforms and in new editorial content to 
grow our audiences in particular across 
Goal in the run up to the FIFA 2014 
World Cup Finals.
Finally, on behalf of the Group's Board, 
I wish to express my sincere thanks 
again to all the Group's employees 
for their commitment and support 
throughout an incredibly busy year.
Paul Walker
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman's review Joint CEOs' 
review
It is a pleasure to introduce Perform's 
second Annual Report. It has been another 
busy year for the Group and these results 
reflect its strong, international growth and 
a number of successful acquisitions. OVERVIEW
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
This has been a transformational year 
for the Group with significant growth in 
the underlying business which continued 
to benefit from positive structural 
trends such as increased digital media 
consumption, growth in connected 
device penetration, growth in online 
video advertising and growth in in-play 
online sports betting. All of these trends 
are forecast to continue to improve over 
the next few years.
Across the Group the key themes have 
been the growth of its advertising and 
sponsorship business, improving margins 
and investment in new platforms, rights 
and editorial content. Year on year 
revenue growth was 47% (2011: 53%) with 
advertising and sponsorship representing 
21% of revenues (2011: 13%) and the 
percentage of revenues generated from 
outside the UK increasing from 70% in 
2011 to 73% in 2012, helped by a strong 
performance around the 2012 European 
Football Championships.
The Watch&Bet service had a strong 
year . The service offering was increased 
to 14,729 events per year . The Group 
acquired more rights including US Open 
T ennis, a range of new football leagues, 
and WT A, A TP 250 and A TP Challenger 
tennis tournaments and National 
Basketball Association. The Group chose 
not to renew rights for Serie A or Ligue 
1 as it focused on ensuring the service 
provided high quality content 24 hours 
a day, 365 days a year and was not overly 
concentrated on weekend afternoons. 
At the end of the year the service had  
40 (2011: 35) licensees. 
The initial 51% stake was acquired for 
cash consideration of 40.8 million 
T urkish Lira ( 14.5 million) out of the 
Group's existing cash resources. A 
further  1.0 million will be paid in 2013 
due to Mackolik's better than expected 
performance in 2012. In addition, the 
Group will acquire the remaining 49% 
for cash, based on an agreed ten times 
multiple calculation of the average 
full year audited EBITDA results of 
the business for the years ending 
31 December 2014 and 2015 weighted 
25% and 75% respectively, with maximum 
additional consideration payable in March 
2016 of up to  59.4 million. 
Both acquisitions have delivered strong 
financial performance following acquisition.
The opportunities for long-term 
sustainable growth remain significant. 
The exciting developments in mobile 
and connected technology, innovation 
in digital sports rights and international 
expansion offer ever greater prospects. 
The Group continues to invest in growing 
its international presence and in 2012 
made significant inroads in Africa, Middle 
East, South America and South East Asia 
that will enable the Group in the medium 
to long term to maintain strong growth.
The Group will continue to augment its 
strong organic growth and investment 
in the core business with strategic 
acquisitions, consolidating its position 
as the world's leading digital sports 
business.
Oliver Slipper
Joint Chief Executive Officer
The Group's video-on-demand network, 
the ePlayer, had a very positive year. The 
Group increased the number of territories 
the ePlayer was live in from 20 at the end 
of 2011 to 24, with launches in Argentina, 
Canada, Netherlands and Norway. T otal 
streams viewed across the year increased 
to 4.5 billion (2011: 3.6 billion) and average 
monthly unique users increased to 112 
million (2011: 80 million). Importantly 
across the year the Group's ability to 
monetise these streams improved with 
a headline sell through rate increasing to 
39% (2011: 23%) with investment in sales 
teams and rights in Italy, Spain and US.
Goal went from strength to strength 
increasing its average monthly audience 
from 24 million in 2011 to 28 million. By 
the end of 2012, 36 editions were live, 
in 17 languages and over 1,500 stories 
were being published each day. It is the 
Group's aim to have a local language 
edition launched for every country taking 
part in the FIFA 2014 World Cup Finals.
The average number of full time staff 
employed in the year increased by 316 
to 906. In the UK the Group launched 
a graduate training scheme with nine 
graduates. In October the Group held its 
first ever global management conference 
in the UK with over 100 of the Group's 
global staff meeting to discuss strategy 
and plans for the future.
These were only a few of many highlights 
in what was the most exciting and busy 
year ever for Perform and the Group 
looks forward to continuing its success 
in 2013.
Simon Denyer y y
Joint Chief Executive Officer
We are delighted with the progress the Group 
has made over the last year and it continues 
to successfully execute its growth strategy.