 Introduction
Despite the fact that the economic environment in which we are
operating remained challenging and we had to overcome disruption
in our supply chain due to a major fire at a key supplier, I am pleased
to report that the Group recorded both revenue and profits growth
during the year ended 31 December 2011. This reflected the benefit
of some notable orders for our defence products and also deliveries
of our eyeTrain systems for two large UK rail projects.
Results
Revenues for the year grew by over 6% to  12.1m (2010:  11.4m)
which gave rise to an operating profit of  335,000, up from
 85,000 in 2010. We achieved a gross margin of 36.5% which while
down slightly on 2010 (37.9%), was in line with our expectations.
Administrative expenses for the year amounted to  4.1m, a
reduction of just over 3% on 2010 ( 4.2m).
Net financial expenses were higher than the prior year at  120,000
(2010:  32,000). 2010 included a  53,000 foreign exchange gain
compared with the  9,000 loss incurred in 2011 and borrowing
levels were higher during much of the second half of 2011. These
borrowings were a consequence of the higher working capital
caused by the re-scheduling of eyeTrain system shipments
resulting from a fire at one of our key suppliers in May 2011.
Profits after tax were  312,000 (2010:  364,000) and included a net
tax credit of  97,000. The prior year's tax credit of  311,000 included
 222,000 from the recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of
additional tax losses whereas in 2011 the Group did not recognise
any such additional deferred tax assets. At 31 December 2011 80% of
the Group's total deferred tax assets of  3.5m remain unrecognised
in the balance sheet. The reduction in earnings per share to 4.90p
(2010: 5.72p) was also due to the lower deferred tax credit.
Cash and Balance Sheet
By 31 December 2011 the impact of the fire referred to above had
diminished significantly and the Group generated an operating cash
inflow for the year overall of  0.9m which compared favourably with
the  0.9m operating cash outflow experienced in 2010.
Net debt at 31 December 2011 was  1.5m (2010:  2.0m). During
the year we repaid a further  0.5m of our term loan reducing the
amount outstanding to  0.55m. That loan is scheduled to be fully
repaid by the end of January 2013 and once repaid the Group will
have the annual cash benefit of over  0.5m, presently required to
service the loan, to invest in its business.
The retention of the profit after tax resulted in total equity at
31 December 2011 increasing to  0.4m (2010:  0.1m).
As I reported in September 2011, at the General Meeting held
on 30 June 2011 shareholders passed a special resolution to
undertake a capital reorganisation. The sale proceeds from
the fractional shares arising were distributed to the eligible
shareholders during October 2011.
Business review
The Group remains focussed on the design, development and
supply of ruggedised electronic systems predominantly for
fitment onto a variety of new build and existing vehicles used by
customers in the rail transport, defence and emergency services
industries as well as the provision of value added design and
support services for the supply, commissioning, maintenance
and obsolescence management of legacy systems.
The increase in revenues in 2011 was partly driven by the receipt
of the first electronic countermeasures systems orders from
the MOD since the Strategic Defence and Security Review was
undertaken in 2010. An upgrade order for the Puma helicopter life
extension programme in June was followed by a much larger order
in October 2011 for the provision of defensive aids equipment
for the MOD's new Chinook Mk6 helicopters some of which was
delivered by year end. Amongst other projects that were major
contributors to revenues in 2011 were shipments of our eyeTrain
on-board digital CCTV systems to both Transys Projects and
Bombardier Transportation. These were for fitment onto over 200
vehicles as part of a fleet upgrade programme being undertaken
for trains operated by Southeastern Trains. Budgetary pressures
faced by police forces within the UK and Europe continued to
affect our sales of Provida products which remained at similar
levels to the previous year. Those pressures remain and our
expectation is that any revenue growth in the near term is most
likely to come from markets outside of those territories.
The fleet of Electrostar EMU trains Bombardier Transportation
supplied for operation on the Stansted Express service have now
all entered service following the completion of our contract during
2011. In addition to eyeTrain onboard CCTV, that fleet incorporates
a number of other new Petards systems including Driver Only
Operation (DOO), track debris cameras and video surveillance of
the pantograph. All of these systems provide significant cost
reduction and safety improvement benefits to both the train
operator and Network Rail.
The opportunities for sales of our eyeTrain products in the UK over
the next five years look encouraging for supplies onto both new
and refurbished trains. The approvals announced during 2011 by
the Department for Transport (DfT) for new rolling stock for the
Intercity Express and Thameslink programmes have been followed
in February 2012 by the issue of an invitation to negotiate to train
builders for the procurement of around 60 new trains for the
Crossrail project. The total number of new vehicles for these three
2
Chairman's Statement projects is over 2,000 which are to be delivered over the period
2013 to 2018. In addition to these new trains, a higher level of
activity is expected in the refurbishment of existing rolling stock
arising from the letting of new franchises. Approximately half of the
existing DfT franchises are due for renewal over the next two years.
Our objective to expand sales globally remains. However, while in
2011 we grew revenues from overseas customers by over 65% year
on year, we still have much work to do in this area and that increase
cannot yet be seen as part of a trend as the growth arose from a
relatively small number of project based sales. Our strategy is to
achieve sustainable growth by working with partners who have a
presence in our target geographic markets and with OEMs who
can provide pull through  for our products into the markets in
which they operate. Our opportunities for growth in export
markets remain strong and the extent of the Group's ability to
capitalise upon this potential will remain for the time being a
function of the available capital resources as well as its ability to
continue to develop market leading products.
While our US operation continued to support existing UVMS
network video software customers, it is no longer a significant area
of our business and therefore in future we will not report this
separately from our UK business.
Research and development
During the year the Group continued to invest in its products, in
particular enhancements to its cameras and camera technologies.
Expenditure of  0.2m was capitalised (2010:  0.3m) and net of
amortisation, capitalised development expenditure decreased
by  0.1m to  0.6m (2010:  0.1m increase).
The pace at which our development programme can be
progressed is limited by the resources available to the Group.
Accordingly the Board is considering how additional resources
might be made available to advance the programme for the
benefit of customers and shareholders alike.
Employees
Petards is fortunate to have a committed workforce with a depth of
knowledge and expertise that is valued by both the Company and
its customers and I would like to thank our employees for their
continuing efforts and support.
The Board and Senior Management
On 31 December 2011 Bill Conn relinquished his duties as the
Group's Chief Executive and Managing Director of Petards Joyce-
Loebl and we thank him for his dedication and contribution in
reducing the cost base and successfully focusing the Group on its
security products within the rail transport, defence and security
markets. We are pleased that he continues to contribute to the
Company by remaining on the Board as a non executive director. 
The Board considered that at this stage of the Group's development
it was appropriate to appoint a replacement for the role of
Managing Director of Petards Joyce-Loebl in order to focus on
the future development of that company and we were pleased
that Tom Burwood joined us in that capacity on 1 January 2012.
Tom was previously at Cobham plc, where latterly he was the
Business Development Director of Cobham Antenna Systems. With
a strong background in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, he has
many years' of business management and international business
development experience having successfully grown companies in
a variety of high technology market sectors. He joined Cobham in
2003 when it acquired Precision Antennas Limited of which he was
Managing Director and whose revenues grew from  5m to  27m
under his stewardship.
Outlook
For the past two years the poor state of government finances,
particularly those in the UK and the Eurozone, has significantly
reduced the spending levels within a significant proportion of
our customer base. As we are all aware the economic uncertainties
have increased again recently and the strengthening of sterling
against the Euro will not be helpful if it proves to be a continuing
trend. While the Group has remained profitable, the rate at which
we have been able to strengthen our balance sheet over the past
two years has slowed reducing the level of investment capital
available to grow the business as quickly as we would like.
However, because of worldwide commitment to the modernisation
and development of rail travel we continue to be confident that
we are operating in markets which have the potential for good
returns. The opportunities in our home markets in the medium
term should give a good base from which to deliver growth from
the penetration of export markets.
The Board expects 2012 revenues to include the benefit of several
orders anticipated to be received in the third quarter. As in previous
years, revenues for 2012 are expected to be weighted towards the
second half of the year.
Tim Wightman
Chairman
1 June 2012
3