 Introduction
2012 proved an eventful year for Petards Group plc (Petards  or
the Company ). In July, the Company secured an order of
approximately  8m for its Petards eyeTrain on board digital CCTV
systems. An indicative paper offer was received in September from
its major shareholder Water Hall Group plc (Water Hall ) which the
board did not believe would be acceptable to shareholders. This
view was affirmed by certain major shareholders who confirmed
they would not accept the indicative offer and therefore, having
consulted with advisors, the board concluded that there was no
purpose in continuing discussions. Following this the Company
raised  1.125m before expenses to fund working capital and
product development by way of an Open Offer. In addition, against
a background of difficult trading conditions the Company
delivered pre-tax profits of  206,000 (2011:  215,000).
Results
While revenues were lower at  9.0m (2011:  12.1m), higher
margins and lower overheads meant that the profitability at the
operating level remained similar to 2011 and the Group generated
operating profits of  327,000 (2011:  335,000).
Gross margins increased from 37% in 2011 to 43%. This increase
was the result of a number of factors. Firstly we achieved a higher
than forecast profitability on three large projects for transport and
defence products. The revenues for these projects spanned 2011
and 2012 but the benefit of the improved profitability was
recorded in the 2012 results. Secondly higher costs incurred on
projects in 2011 as a result of a fire at a key supplier in May 2011
were recovered from insurers during the first half of 2012.
Finally revenues from engineering support and spares were
maintained. As these attract higher than average margins, lower
revenues from other work meant the overall margin percentage
for the business increased.
Administrative expenses for the year reduced by  0.5m to  3.6m a
reduction of over 12% over those incurred in the prior year (2011:
 4.1m) and net financial expenses were in line with those incurred
in 2011 and totalled  121,000 (2011:  120,000).
Profit after tax was  200,000 (2011:  312,000) and earnings per
share were 2.92p (2011: 4.90p) and are stated after a tax charge of
 6,000 compared with a  97,000 tax credit in 2011. The principal
reason for the charge in 2012 was that the Group took the
opportunity in the year to surrender tax losses previously
recognised as a  241,000 deferred tax asset, together with some
unrecognised deferred tax assets, in return for a cash refund of
 196,000 under the UK's R&D Relief Scheme. At 31 December 2012
the Group still had over  2.5m of unrecognised deferred tax assets
available to offset against future profits.
Cash and Balance Sheet
The Group generated a net operating cash inflow of  0.7m
(2011:  0.9m) which was higher than expected due to lower
working capital at the year end that arose from the earlier than
forecast receipt of customer payments and better than forecast
credit terms from suppliers. The lower working capital was a
temporary effect and the position normalised in January 2013.
While inventories remained at  1.2m year on year,  0.8m of the
2012 balance relates to project work-in-progress (2011: 0.1m). The
increase in work-in-progress relates to the large eyeTrain order
referred to above.
In November 2012 the Group received net proceeds of  974,000
from an Open Offer and Placing to provide additional working
capital and to fund product development. Net debt (comprising
the overdraft and term loan, less cash) at 31 December 2012 was
 0.1m (2011:  1.5m), and during the year repayments of  0.5m
were made on our term loan, the final instalment of which,
 42,000, was made in January 2013.
The retention of profit after tax and the proceeds from the Open
Offer and Placing resulted in total equity increasing to  1.5m at
31 December 2012 (2011:  0.4m).
Business review
The Group's activities are focussed upon the design, development
and supply of ruggedised electronic systems predominantly for
fitment onto a variety of new build and existing vehicles used by
customers in the rail transport, defence and emergency services
industries as well as the provision of value added design and
support services for the supply, commissioning, maintenance and
obsolescence management of legacy systems.
Revenues from the Group's products for defence and emergency
services customers remained at similar levels to 2011 although the
expected growth in export orders for our emergency services
products continued to be subject to delays in contract awards.
Revenues from rail retrofit and refurbishment projects accounted
for the reduction in revenues and this market has been hindered
by the delays arising from the cancellation by the Department for
Transport of the InterCity West Coast franchise procurement in
October 2012. This resulted in the delay of other new rail franchise
awards that had been scheduled for 2012 and 2013. While a new
schedule of awards was issued by the Department for Transport in
March 2013, the new timetable is much later than was previously
the case and will impact in the short term on our revenues from
the retrofit and refurbishment orders that are expected to arise.
Petards has been very successful in the UK in recent years
supplying its eyeTrain systems to the train retrofit and
refurbishment market, but it has been the Group's strategy to also
become an established supplier to global train builders for new
build vehicles. The costs to train builders of making changes to
Chairman's Statement
2 their supply chain and their focus on the ability of suppliers to
ensure availability of products fitted to their trains over the long
term mean that the barriers to entry are high. However, successful
suppliers to the new build train market benefit from a more stable
demand for their products than is the case in the refurbishment
market traditionally addressed by the Group. We have been
working on developing this market area for some time and have
had some success by, for example, being selected to supply
eyeTrain systems onto Bombardier's fleet of new Electrostar EMU
trains for the Stansted Express Service and to Hyundai Rotem for
their fleet of Matangi EMU trains for Greater Wellington Rail in New
Zealand. However, the award in July 2012 of a contract worth in
the region of  8m to supply eyeTrain systems to an international
train builder marked a significant milestone in the Group's
progress in this area of business. We have been working on other
opportunities in the new build market and we are hopeful that this
will result in us being able to report further progress in the
near future.
The business model for the new build market is different from that
required for the retrofit and refurbishment markets and the
working capital dynamics are such that it requires a higher level of
working capital arising from the need for engineering and other
activities in the early stages of projects, particularly for the initial
projects with new customers, and because the timeframes over
which deliveries are made for such projects tend to be longer. The
fund raising undertaken in 2012 was recognition of this and as the
Group expands in this area further working capital will be required.
Research and development
The Group continues to develop its product portfolio to satisfy
specific customer requirements on funded projects and at the
Group's cost in areas where it expects to be able to obtain a good
return on its investment.
During the year we completed development of our ProVida 4000
mobile time distance speed measurement device which has since
received Home Office Type Approval. Our similar ProVida 2000
product has been very successful since its launch over 10 years ago
and initial sales of ProVida 4000 have been made in 2013. The
Group has also produced prototype units of an automatic number
plate recognition system that has generated significant interest
from both end users and a major integrator and we are hopeful
that this interest will develop further over the coming months.
Development of our eyeTrain product portfolio also continued and
trial units of products focussed on providing data to help improve
rail network reliability have been purchased by users in the UK.
Historically, while the Group has long been a supplier to the
defence industry, it has been a value added re-seller or has
developed products for customers for which they have paid and
retained the associated intellectual property rights. However, we
have identified a demand from defence forces for a training aid for
which we have the relevant experience and we are presently
considering how we can best develop this opportunity.
Employees
The strength of any business depends on the commitment of its
employees and in this, Petards is no different. The credible result
for 2012 reflects performances achieved against a background of
difficult trading conditions exacerbated by public sector cutbacks.
The board's thanks go to all employees for their efforts on behalf of
the Company.
The Board and Senior Management
Following agreement being reached between the board and that
of Water Hall a General Meeting requisitioned by Water Hall to
effect board changes was withdrawn on 22 January 2013, Tim
Wightman resigned as chairman and a board member and I,
Raschid Abdullah chairman of Water Hall, was appointed a director
of the Company and elected executive chairman.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank Tim Wightman for his
efforts on behalf of the Company over his ten year period of
involvement both as an executive and non-executive director.
The board periodically reviews its blend and balance for its
effectiveness in meeting the demands of the operating and
development of Company.
Outlook
Petards' customer base comprises many leading international
train builders, the UK train operating companies, police and other
government agencies, including the UK Ministry of Defence.
That Petards has consistently produced quality technical
products that satisfy the exacting requirements of blue chip 
customers against a background of an under-capitalised balance
sheet, speaks highly for the Company's intellectual property, its
personnel and their dedication to the business.
While necessary to maintain Petards' market position, the timing
of the decision to increase its presence in the new build train
market was shortly followed by sustained weakness in the UK
and other major global economies.  In turn, this has impacted on
the speed with which orders have been placed by its customers
such that after achieving forecast revenue in the first quarter,
revenue in the second quarter has suffered sharply.   
While in recent weeks there have been signs of some recovery in
the order intake, the Group's performance for 2013 will be highly
dependent upon the order inflow for the balance of 2013 and
upon the Group's ability to translate those into invoiced sales
within the year.  However, the move towards increasing Petards
presence in the new build trains market means that revenues
from its transport products will in future benefit from improved
forward visibility. 
Raschid Abdullah
Chairman
28 June 2013
3