 Artilium plc
3
Overview
Following the acquisition of Artilium N.V. in 
January 2007, the re-admission to AIM  
and the subsequent change of name  
to Artilium plc, the Company is pleased to 
report the achievement of key milestones 
set out by management for the financial year 
ended 30 June 2007.
Firstly, the Company has effectively managed 
a significant transformation of the business by 
divesting loss-making operations; expanding 
the board with recognised industry experts, 
and building a senior leadership team with 
executives from Microsoft, T-Mobile and other 
market leading communication companies;  
and defining a strategic roadmap which  
expands Artilium's proven technology  
and core expertise in unifying fixed, mobile  
and IP networks for expansion into new 
territories and market segments. 
Secondly, Artilium is delighted to announce  
that it has achieved sales volumes of  
 4.5 million for the year ended 30 June 2007  
(2006:  612,000 representing only four 
months of revenue from subsidiary acquired  
in March 2006) which represents a more  
than 50% increase on a year-on-year basis, 
the key benchmark defined by management 
following the annual general meeting (AGM)  
on 5 January 2007.
Finally, as expected, the Company reports  
a loss of  4.8 million for the year, of which  
 1.9 million is related to a discontinued 
operation, divested during the year. The 
remaining loss from continuing operations 
of  2.9 million includes a number of one-off 
costs in relation to the re-organisation of the 
Company, and the cost of completing the 
acquisition of Artilium N.V. and the subsequent 
re-listing of the Company.
Artilium is well-positioned to capitalise on 
opportunities in the unified communications 
market, a rapidly evolving segment championed 
Chairman's 
& Chief 
Executive's 
statement
Robert Marcus
Chief Executive Officer
by Microsoft, Cisco and other major industry 
leaders. The Company develops innovative 
mobility software solutions which unify fixed, 
mobile and IP networks to enable operators 
to easily deliver and monetize advanced 
differentiated services to a broad range  
of market segments. Artilium's solutions  
drive revenues for operators and managed 
services providers.
Key developments during the year
The results for the twelve months ended 
30 June 2007 reflect a period of significant 
operational transformation within the Company.
On 11 September 2006, the Board of 
Directors authorised the sale of certain  
of the Company's intellectual property  
and physical assets pertaining to  
a potential consumer offering in the  
retail unified communications market. 
On 12 December 2006, a circular was 
issued to shareholders outlining the  
terms of the completion of the acquisition 
of Artilium N.V. The Company's ordinary 
shares were restored to trading on  
13 December 2006.
Since the acquisition of Artilium N.V. 
and the subsequent placing and capital 
reorganisation completed in January  
of this year, we have laid the  
foundations for a successful business  
in the communications sector.  
 
To secure a base in the US and gain key 
technical expertise, on 21 March 2007, 
the Company completed the acquisition 
of a 31% stake in Chinook Hosting 
Corporation, paying approximately 
 300,000 in cash. Chinook was founded 
in 2006 by technology professionals 
with experience in developing, deploying 
and hosting Microsoft technologies. This 
acquisition provides us with ready access  4
unify communication
to the US hosting market and represents  
a major step ahead for our new voice 
solutions business.
On 2 April 2007, Robert Marcus 
was appointed as Chief Executive 
An experienced leader of emerging 
technology businesses, his career  
includes over nine years at Microsoft 
where he served most recently as  
a director on the company's mergers  
and acquisitions team. He is an  
expert in unified communications  
and led Microsoft's unified 
communications strategy.
Against this backdrop, we are pleased to report 
that results for the twelve months ended  
30 June 2007 are in line with our expectations.   
Performance
Over the past 12 months, we have delivered  
a strong performance from our communications 
convergence software business. We saw  
growth among new and existing customers  
and deployed multiple installations  
within major telecommunications and cable 
operator accounts. 
Financial Results
In line with our expectations, revenue increased 
to  4.5 million for the year ended 30 June 
2007 (2006:  612,000 representing only four 
months of revenue from the subsidiary acquired 
in March 2006). Furthermore, as anticipated, 
the Company reported a loss from continuing 
operations for the year ended 30 June 2007 of 
 2.9 million. However, this loss includes  
a number of one-time charges in relation to the 
reorganisation of the company, and the cost 
of completing the acquisition of Artilium N.V. 
and the subsequent re-listing of the Company 
totalling around  500,000. The loss also 
includes an accounting charge related to awards 
 Results for the  
twelve months 
ended 30 June  
2007 are in line  
with our 
expectations. 
under new share based payment schemes of 
 707,000, depreciation and amortisation of 
 281,000 and a minority interest expense of 
 110,000. The Company also reported a loss 
from discontinued operations of  1.9 million 
in relation to its discontinued retail unified 
communications business which was disposed 
of in September 2006. 
Artilium N.V., the Group's Belgian subsidiary, 
reported a profit before tax of  281,000 on  
a stand-alone basis. 
Strategy  
In the year ahead, the company will continue to 
build upon its regional success in the Benelux, 
expanding aggressively into new geographic 
and technology markets. Geographic growth will 
include a launch in the United States, and the 
targeting of dynamic convergence markets in 
Western and Central Europe. 
The Company will release new mobile unified 
communications technologies in 2008  
targeting network operators with solutions 
designed for prosumers, mobile professionals 
who are sophisticated purchasers of goods 
and services and who demand a more unified 
communications experience that allows them  
to connect and collaborate seamlessly across 
their business and social networks. 
The Company sells indirectly via partnerships 
that are directly managed and supported by  
a dedicated sales force responsible for leading 
the partner's sales engagement, pipeline 
development and deal close process. The 
strategy is designed to ensure scale of market 
penetration that is both tightly coordinated  
and highly directed. Partners include telecoms 
infrastructure providers, systems integrators, 
managed services providers and IT companies. 
Microsoft engagement will be a central focus; 
Artilium has achieved select Gold Certified 
Partner status at Microsoft, bringing  
it into a much closer strategic business  
and technology engagement with Microsoft. Artilium plc
5
To achieve its vision and growth goals the 
Company will continue to invest in people:
Board appointments
   Richard Hooper CBE, Chairman of 
Informa plc until May of this year has 
joined the board as a Non-Executive 
Director. He was founding Deputy 
Chairman of the UK communications 
regulator, OFCOM, Chairman of  
the Radio Authority, and CEO of the 
value added services division of  
British Telecom.
   Michael Hulme, a convergence expert, 
joined the board as a Non-Executive 
Director. He is Honorary Professor  
of the Institute for Advanced Studies  
at Lancaster University, Director of 
the Centre for the Study of Media 
Technology and Culture, and Director 
of the Social Futures Observatory 
think-tank.
   Philip Kendall joined the Artilium  
board as a Non-Executive Director.  
A Senior Adviser at Hawkpoint Partners 
Ltd, Philip brings with him a wealth  
of experience in the global capital 
markets arena, having spent some  
30 years in the City and on Wall 
Street. Philip assumed the chair of 
the Audit Committee from the date 
of his appointment. As a practising 
banker and a former partner at 
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Philip has  
all of the necessary relevant experience 
for this role.
   Having successfully steered the 
company through its transition  
and introduced Robert Marcus as  
Chief Executive, Paul Gratton will  
step down as Artilium's Executive 
Chairman, remaining on the board  
as a Non-Executive Director. It is 
intended that Paul will step down as 
Executive Chairman at the Company's 
AGM to be held on 28 November 
2007 and, subject to the passing of 
necessary shareholder resolutions,  
be succeeded by Richard Hooper  
in the newly created role of  
Non-Executive Chairman. 
Executive Management appointments
   Stewart Emerson, was appointed Vice 
President, Worldwide Sales. Stewart 
has extensive C-level telecoms sector 
sales experience. He was former Head 
of Web and tele-sales at T-Mobile 
International, and previously head of 
Nortel EMEA Business Development. 
   Charlotte Massard, was appointed  
Vice President, Business Development.  
She is a specialist in telecoms sector 
business development. Charlotte  
was the vice president at IDT 
responsible for pan-European strategy  
and business development, and 
head of EMEA business and channel 
development for Verestar. 
   Anne Walker was appointed Vice 
President of Marketing. Anne is  
a marketing professional specialized in 
working with entrepreneurial companies 
in rapidly evolving market sectors. 
She was Senior Vice President at the 
PR firm The MWW Group focused on 
emerging technologies, and headed 
European marketing for Softbank-
backed wireless company Ripcord. 
   Simon Wood was appointed Vice 
President of Program Management. 
Simon is an expert in the discipline 
of software development and quality  6
unify communication
 Artilium develops innovative 
solutions which unify networks 
to enable operators to  
deliver and monetize 
differentiated services to  
new market segments.  
 
Robert Marcus, Chief Executive Officer 
assurance. He was CTO of Windows 
Mobile developer flyingSPARK, head of 
quality at TAG Electronic Systems (TAG 
Mclaren) and held senior engineering 
positions at Racal Research.
Outlook
Artilium is well positioned to emerge as  
a leader in the unified communications market. 
In the year ahead we will build on the strong 
foundations laid over the course of the past 
twelve months, extending Artilium's existing 
offerings into new geographic markets, and 
launching new solutions. We will invest heavily in 
channel and partner development, including the 
strategic partnership with Microsoft. We have 
the team and the technology necessary to drive 
a transformational shift in business growth and 
expansion. 
Paul Gratton, Chairman
Robert Marcus, Chief Executive Officer
11 September 2007