 Chairman's Statement
2
PipeHawk plc       Annual Report and Accounts       2008
our technologies save
money, saves jobs 
and save lives 
This year has been challenging, involving
change and transition to the Company's
operating businesses. The mutual trust and
commitment that both the management
and the Group's employees have shown
has put the Company in a solid position for
moving forward.
I can report the turnover for the year ended
30 June 2008 was  2,411,000 (2007:
 3,606,000, both restated for IFRS which
excludes SUMO turnover), which is a
decrease of 33 per cent. on the previous
year. The Company achieved a loss after
taxation for the year of  327,000 (2007:
 109,000 profit). This result reflects the
loss of the largest customer of QM
Systems, GE Aviation. Sales to this
customer in the year ended 30 June 2008
fell by  1,273,000 compared to the
previous year.
The Company's GPR services in Adien and
SUMO have capitalised on the investments
made to date and have, in the Board's
opinion, positioned themselves as the
professional leaders in the field of GPR
based surveying. They are now, largely,
bucking the trend of the wider economy
that appears to be in a deep recession.
Many of our principal competitors are
reducing their head count whilst our GPR
services continue to grow.
QM Systems has taken longer than the
Board would have liked to find an
appropriate high calibre managing director
to drive the business forward following the
loss of its largest customer. The Board was
pleased to appoint Nick Field as managing
director of QM Systems on 1 September
2008.
PipeHawk continues to contribute to
Government sponsored initiatives (VISTA
and Mapping the Underworld programmes),
which consider the issues surrounding the
mapping and cataloguing of buried utility
services as well as the European GPR trade
association.
Fortunately the firm foundations which the
Company established in 2007 have
enabled the Company to withstand a
difficult period of economic uncertainty and
to emerge positively. The trading
performances of the Company's four major
business areas are summarised below.
Adien 
Adien, PipeHawk's high definition
underground mapping and planning
service, has, in a tightening market where
its competitors are contracting, had another
excellent year with a 13 per cent. increase
in sales orders received during the year. It
is particularly pleasing to note that some of
these orders were for projects that are
expected to run on into 2009 under either
formal framework agreements or long-term
contracts. These clients and their projects
seem, currently, to be relatively unaffected
by the economic downturn.
Adien's client base continues to develop to
include preferred supplier status with
organisations such as Crossrail, Tube Lines,
The Environment Agency and Carillion plc.
Adien formally opened a Scottish office in
Livingston in June 2008 and it is already
making a positive contribution. Clients in
England are pleased that they have local
contacts that they can rely upon in
Scotland.
The Company's vacuum excavation service
has been of great interest to Adien's clients
during the year and has enabled Adien to
provide a one-stop shop  service to clients.
Adien remains confident that its offering of
a high quality responsive service to readily
meet the differing requirements of
increasingly sophisticated clients puts it in
a strong position for the future.
SUMO
SUMO has continued its turnover growth
during 2008. Turnover was  3,030,000
(2007: 2,402,000) and operating profit was
 177,000 (2007:  197,000). SUMO is
accounted for in the group financial
statements as a joint venture.
The Topographic Surveying Franchise was
launched during the second half of 2007.
The Franchise model had been successfully
proven and provided an opportunity for
surveyors to significantly increase their
income. However, the initiative was adversely
affected by an industry-wide shortage of
213493 PIPEHAWK R&A.qxd  1/12/08  14:55  Page 2 Chairman's Statement
surveyors. The Company was not able to
attract sufficient qualified surveyors to
ensure the viability of the programme roll out
across the UK. Consequently, the
programme has been put on hold.
SUMO implemented a review of the market
with the objective of identifying strategically
located surveying companies, which could
bring additional services to complement
SUMO's core business of utility mapping.
The first acquisition was completed in
March 2008 with the purchase of Team
Surveys Limited (Team ), which is one of
the largest surveying companies in the
south west of England. The combined
turnover of Team and SUMO based on
historical financial information will be in the
region of  4,000,000.
The Team acquisition was funded by the
issue of new shares in SUMO to certain of
SUMO's existing shareholders and to new
private investors. Following the acquisition
and fundraising the Company now holds
approximately 30 per cent. (previously
36 per cent.) of the issued share capital of
SUMO.
SUMO continues to investigate acquisition
opportunities and hopes to be able to
conclude further transactions in 2008/9.
Technology Division
The Technology Division has continued the
development of its third generation of GPR
technology known as PipeHawk Mk3. The
first product emerging from this
development is branded the e-Spade. It
was formally launched at GPR2008 in
Birmingham on 17 June 2008. This is the
world bi-annual forum for GPR technology
and was co-chaired by PipeHawk's
Technical Director, Dr Richard Chignell. The
Board believes that the new technology
provides PipeHawk with a new and highly
innovative technology platform that will
allow a series of other products to be
rapidly introduced. The second product, the
e-Spect, was launched at the  No-Dig'
exhibition in Coventry on 23 September
2008. This is a GPR-based wall and floor
scanner which detects features such as
voids and reinforced steel in concrete.
The approval process for the  8 million
EU MineHawk grant is progressing despite
political and financial disruption in both
Tanzania and Kenya who are part of the
grant approval process. Much of the
software platform written for the e-Spade
will be common to that upon which the
MineHawk will be built, and consequently
the Company will be well placed once the
MineHawk project receives approval.
QM Systems
QM Systems has faced a difficult and
challenging year following the loss of its
main customer. Consequently, the business
strategy has been re-focused to offer a
more diverse range of products and
services across a far wider customer base.
In addition to QM's core test solutions
business, it has extended the services it
offers to include assembly and automation
solutions for a wide range of applications
and industries. It has recently won several
new orders in the automotive and
aerospace market and the order book
currently stands at its largest level for over
12 months. The directors are encouraged
by the early signs of a far more rounded
and stable business moving forward.
The development of a lightning strike
protection test unit earlier this year has
been well received by the market and
orders are steadily increasing.
On 1 September 2008, QM Systems
appointed a new managing director, Nick
Field, to drive the business forward. Nick
brings with him great experience of
working in the automotive and related
arenas and has previously successfully
managed and expanded a business similar
to QM Systems.
QM Systems' legal action against
GE Aviation for breach of contract and IPR
continues on a contingent basis. Further
announcements will be made in due course.
QM Systems is now well placed to continue
a much more diverse growth over the
coming year and in the short to medium
term. The Board are excited by the
prospects that exist for this business.
Related party transactions
In the period under review, as in previous
years, I have undertaken to provide working
capital to the Company. During the year
ended 30 June 2008 I advanced loans to
the Company of  300,000, in aggregate. In
addition, since 30 June 2008 I have
advanced further loans of  190,000 to the
Company. The loans have been made in
accordance with a letter of support dated
11 November 2007. The letter of support
was renewed on 17 November 2008 for a
further year. The loans are unsecured and
accrue interest at an annual rate of base
rate plus 2.15 per cent.
The directors, other than myself, consider,
having consulted with the Company's
nominated adviser, that the terms of the
loans are fair and reasonable insofar as the
Company's shareholders are concerned.
In addition to the loans I have provided to
the Company during the period and in
previous years, my fellow directors and I
have deferred a certain proportion of our
fees until the Company is in a suitably
strong position to make the full payments.
These deferred fees amount to
approximately  125,000 in the year ended
30 June 2008 and approximately
 277,000 in total, all of which have been
accrued in the Company's accounts.
Strategy & Outlook
As indicated above it has been a very
difficult year but the Board believes that
PipeHawk is emerging as a stronger and
more focused group. Current trading
indicates that the worst may be behind us,
the Board considers that the Company's
working capital position is sufficient for its
immediate requirements as the Company's
directors continue to provide support in the
form of unsecured loans on normal
commercial terms and fee deferral.
The Company's employees have risen to
the challenge and I trust them to continue
taking the Company forward into real
success and profitability.
Gordon Watt
Chairman
17 November 2008
3
PipeHawk plc       Annual Report and Accounts       2008
213493 PIPEHAWK R&A.qxd  1/12/08  14:55  Page 3