 I am pleased to report Plant Health Care's
results for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Overview
As of 2012, the world's population is estimated
to be nearly seven billion, growing at an annual
rate of 1.2 per cent ( %). Challenges facing
farmers and growers relying on finite land and
an increasingly strained supply of water are
clear. Meeting these challenges will require a
range of initiatives and technologies to
enhance the yield of crops, both basic food
crops and row crops supporting animal protein
production, for the world's rapidly growing
middle class.
Plant Health Care has the patented technology
and the proven products to help address this
economic and societal dilemma. The challenge
for the Board and management is to generate
shareholder value by successfully bringing
these products to market across large
agricultural areas by leveraging the existing
industry supply chain.
Strategy
Our strategy for commercialising our natural
platform technologies, Harpin and Myconate,
allows Plant Health Care to take advantage of
the various routes to market and opportunities
for generating revenue and shareholder
returns. Our approach has three distinct but
complementary strands.
First, we develop and prove the efficacy of our
natural technologies. This process begins in the
laboratory before moving to greenhouse testing
and then our own and independent field trials.
This process has been on-going for a number of
years, and we have successfully demonstrated
to the market the efficacy of Harpin and
Myconate across a range of crops and via a
number of application methods. Testing
continues to extend the scope of our
opportunities on further crops and working in
conjunction with existing products. As part of
proving the product, and as a means of creating
market awareness and acceptance, we will,
where appropriate, introduce the product
through distributors into closely-targeted
markets. Use by farmers via this approach is
important in order to prove that Harpin and
Myconate perform in the field and can generate
support from growers. These sales provide
short-term revenue but, more importantly,
demonstrate to our potential large-scale
partners the effectiveness and potential
demand for our technologies. This approach
resulted in our signing major agreements
with INCOTEC and Alexin in 2011.
Second, we develop partnerships with major
agrichemical and seed companies and work
with them to make sales for crops grown on
very large acreage via their established sales
channels. We seek to partner with a number of
companies, splitting up the rights to the use of
our patented technologies (by application
method, by crop and by territory) in order to
secure the best partners in each situation and
also to mitigate the risk of over-dependence
on one crop or customer. Partnering with a
major company, where our natural
technologies are used in combination with their
existing offerings, provides these large players
with a differentiator for which they can charge
a higher price and achieve more profitable
sales, whilst offering Plant Health Care access
to a market share it could not hope to achieve
alone. It is this approach which has led to our
current partnerships with Monsanto, Syngenta
and others, including those with INCOTEC and
Alexin, newly established in 2011.
Whilst the long-term benefits of partnering will
prove transformational, it is important to stress
that developing successful programmes to the
stage of significant sales takes time. The
companies with whom we already partner, and
those with whom we will partner in the future,
rigorously test our technologies, perhaps in
combination with their existing products.
If there are new combinations or products
resulting, they may require expert formulation
3
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman's statement
16211 PHC Annual Report:Layout 1 14/03/2012 13:21 Page 3 and then registration, and market launches are
progressed cautiously. It is a process which will
almost always take two to three years, and in
complex cases even longer, but the reward
comes in the  lifetime value' of these
partnering relationships which, while time
intensive with limited returns in the early years,
in the long term will enable us to generate
very substantial revenue at high margin for
many years ahead.
Finally, we ensure that Plant Health Care is
already responding to the needs we expect our
customers and partners to have in the years
ahead. We are already working to develop
future generations of our natural technologies,
which deliver more benefit and stronger
results. In doing so and building for tomorrow,
we are seeking to future proof our platform of
natural, yield-enhancing agricultural
technologies, whilst also locking in the
potential to deliver returns for our shareholders
for the long term.
Progress
The year saw significant progress in each of
the three key elements of our strategy
towards our goal of profitability, as reported in
more detail in the Chief Executive's report.
We have seen very significant growth in
on-ground, defined as end-user application,
sales of Harpin which, in the USA alone, rose
approximately 40% in 2011 and, as a result of
in-hand distributor orders, we expect 2012
on-ground sales to more than triple 2011
levels. On-ground sales of Harpin have also
grown rapidly in Mexico and South Africa as
a result of initiatives in those markets. Both
countries experienced roughly 50% growth in
on-ground sales in 2011, and we expect this
to accelerate by 70% in 2012.
As a result of technical collaboration and
excellent field trial results, we are well
advanced in discussions with a number of
major partners with high commercial potential
for Plant Health Care, and expect to make a
number of announcements of new deals
this year.
During the year, we developed six new Harpin
product candidates, which have exhibited
significantly stronger attributes in greenhouse
trials than those Harpin products currently in
the market. Initial field trials of these product
candidates will commence during this year.
We have also benefitted from a sharper focus
and additional resources for our core business,
following the sale of the US retail and
landscape business in January 2011.
Financial results
A summary of the financial results for the
12 months to 31 December 2011, with
comparatives for the previous financial year,
is set out below:
2011 2010
$'000 $'000
Revenue 7,853 7,085
Gross profit 4,114 3,589
Operating loss from
continuing operations (7,053) (7,875)
Gains on disposal of
discontinued operations 2,110  
(Loss)/gain on
discontinued operations (74) 136
Finance income (net) 75 226
Net loss for the year (5,099) (7,553)
Cash/liquid short-term
investments at
31 December 13,798 13,036
Group sales from continuing operations were
$7.9 million (2010: $7.1 million), an increase of
11% compared to the prior year. The increase
resulted from higher sales of Harpin products in
the USA (excluding Monsanto), Mexico and
Europe. US sales from continuing operations fell
by 45% to $0.8 million, due to lower sales of
Harpin to Monsanto as their inventory stock
is being depleted. Sales in Mexico were
4
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman's statement continued
16211 PHC Annual Report:Layout 1 14/03/2012 13:21 Page 4 $3.0 million in 2011, up 25% from the prior year.
Europe had sales of $4.0 million in 2011,
up 27% from 2010.
The gross profit margin from continuing
operations increased to 52% (2010: 51%)
as margins remained robust, due to a product
mix weighted towards higher margin
Harpin products.
Operating expenses were $11.2 million
(2010: $11.5 million), a reduction of 3%.
Administrative expenses were reduced by 6%
during the year and research and development
spending increased by 4%, consistent with our
initiatives to increase product development
while reducing corporate overheads.
As a result, the operating loss from
continuing operations was $7.1 million
(2010: $7.9 million), a 10.4% improvement.
Including the $2.0 million gain from the sale
of the Group's US retail and landscape business
in January 2011, the net loss was $5.1 million
(2010: loss of $7.6 million).
As a consequence of strong collections
from debtors and the contribution of the
$4.25 million proceeds from the sale of the
US retail and landscape business, the Group
had cash and liquid short-term investments
at the year-end of $13.8 million, compared to
$13.0 million at 1 January 2011.
The Board
In September, the Board reported, with deep
regret, the death of Jeremy Scudamore,
a non-executive director of Plant Health Care
since October 2008. We would like to take this
opportunity, on behalf of the Board, our staff
and our shareholders, to recognise Jeremy's
significant contribution and unstinting
commitment to the Group.
It is the intention of the Board to appoint a
new non-executive director in 2012.
Nominated adviser/stockbroker
On 27 February 2012, Plant Health Care
expects to announce the appointment of
a new nominated adviser and stockbroker
to the Company.
Outlook
With the efficacy of Harpin and Myconate now
well established, we are currently focusing on
bringing the partnerships we have already
secured to full commercial roll-out and sales,
and on securing further partnering relationships
with major agrichemical and seed treatment
companies throughout the world. A number of
negotiations were brought to conclusion in
2011, but many others continue into 2012.
We are optimistic that these negotiations
will produce new partnering agreements
within the current year.
We prudently cut spending on corporate
overheads in 2011 for the second straight year
and will maintain strict cost control in 2012.
At the same time, we will increase spending
on developing new Harpin products and new
formulations for Harpin and Myconate. This is a
key facet of our corporate strategy and one
which we expect to ultimately achieve a very
high return on investment. We ended the year
with $13.8 million of cash and liquid short-term
investments, which provide us with adequate
resources to pursue our strategy on our
existing products through to profitability, whilst
increasing research and development spend on
our next generation products.
I would like to thank my fellow directors, our
shareholders and our employees for their
contributions in the past year and encourage
everyone to have high expectations for the
success of your Company.
Dr. Dominik Koechlin
Chairman
24 February 2012
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman's statement continued
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
16211 PHC Annual Report:Layout 1 14/03/2012 13:21 Page 5