 02
Plastics Capital plc
Annual r eport & Accounts 2008
 I am pleased to report an 
outstanding year for plastics c apital. 
The financial highlights demonstrate 
exceptional growth and profitability 
achieved by the Group compared to 
the 2006/07 financial year. This 
growth builds on what has been 
achieved in the prior year: sales and 
earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and 
exceptionals (eBITDA) have grown 
approximately threefold in the last 
two years. 
ChAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
In August 2007 we completed the acquisition of c hannel Matrix 
l imited (c hannel ), the no.2 player in creasing matrix production, 
and have since then consolidated it with Trimplex l imited (Trimplex ), 
the no.3 player that we already owned. The combined business, now 
called c &T Matrix l imited (c &T ) based in Wellingborough, has 
achieved some significant synergies and has developed into a core 
business of the Group.
The acquisitions led to a significant amount of factory rationalisation 
activity with three factories being closed during the year and a fourth 
being substantially moved. This has resulted in significant one-off 
costs for redundancies and similar charges for the year reported as 
exceptional costs in the results.
In March 2008 we completed the acquisition of palagan l imited 
(palagan ), which manufactures customised high performance  
film packaging. This is a standalone business where we see the 
opportunity for organic growth and further related acquisitions.
o ur acquisition pipeline remains good with a healthy focus on bolt-on 
opportunities, which generally provide excellent earnings enhancement.
Organic development
projects associated with new products and process developments are a 
critical aspect of the Group's strategy going forward. During the 
financial year under review, conversion of these projects, which are 
generally carried out in partnership  with major customers, generated 
recurring annual sales of approximately  2 million. In addition, we have 
a significant pipeline of these new product projects which provide 
opportunities for further sales growth in the current and coming years. 
We have committed to the opening of our own moulding and assembly 
factory in Thailand during the course of this financial year and we 
anticipate production to commence before the end of 2008. This 
initiative will enable us to lower production costs and to shorten 
delivery times to the growing markets in south east Asia as well as  
to exploit new sales opportunities in the region.
Banking
Despite the turmoil in the banking industry, I am pleased to say that we 
have continued to enjoy excellent support from the r oyal Bank of scotland. 
We have conducted three re-financings with the r oyal Bank of scotland 
over the reporting period: the first helped to complete the c hannel 
acquisition, the second at the time of Ipo, and the final one to fully fund 
the acquisition of palagan. It is a measure of the strength of our business 
and its underlying cash flow that, despite the credit crisis, we have been 
able to secure this funding in order to continue acquisition activity. Whilst 
terms have become somewhat tighter, they are not at a level that 
materially prejudices our strategy.
Exports and exchange rates
It is testament to the technical sophistication of our businesses that 
we export a high proportion of what we produce; approximately 70% 
of sales during the financial year went overseas, much of it in euros, 
some in us Dollars and a little in Japanese Yen. 
During the current financial year exchange rate movements have been 
volatile. This volatility emphasises the importance of the Group's 
commercial hedging strategy - specifically, to fully hedge operational 
exposures through borrowings with matching maturities, and through 
futures and options. This strategy means a significant proportion of 
the Group's borrowings are in euros and us Dollars. 
underpinning the growth and profitability is our focus on niche 
plastic products and our complementary strategies of:
 o rganic development - through penetration of new markets and 
development of new products; and
 Acquisition of new businesses, some as stand-alone and some as 
bolt-on entities to our existing operations.
Globally, speciality plastics products is a growing sector and is highly 
fragmented, offering numerous opportunities for acquisition, 
frequently from retiring owner-managers.
AIM listing
The most significant development this year has been the admission of 
plastics c aptial plc (plastics c apital , the c ompany , the Group ) to 
trading on AIM in early December 2007. In difficult markets, we raised 
 16.2 million from an excellent group of institutional and private client 
investors, primarily using these funds to pay down debt to facilitate the 
Group's ongoing acquisition programme and for organic development. 
The statutory accounts recognise exceptional finance costs relating to 
the redemption of debt at Ipo, which are unrepresentative of the 
underlying costs of the Group.
o n admission to AIM, management retained approximately 33% of the 
share capital, so aligning interests with those of other shareholders.
Acquisitions
four acquisitions have been completed during the year. The full 
financial benefit of all these acquisitions will only be seen in the 
2008/09 financial year.
In April and May 2007 we completed two bolt-on acquisitions of 
c obb slater l imited (c obb slater ) and sabre plastics l imited 
(sabre ). In both cases we kept only part of the business that fitted 
with our overall niche market strategy. c obb slater was consolidated 
into our plastic bearings business, Bnl ( uK) l imited (Bnl  ). sabre 
was eventually consolidated into our factory in Kent making flooring 
products and specialist extrusions. Both acquisitions strengthened our 
market positions and once rationalised and integrated provided 
attractive incremental profits.
 
  03
Plastics Capital plc
Annual r eport & Accounts 2008
This hedging strategy has resulted in a paper loss primarily associated 
with our euro borrowings - the euro having strengthened 
considerably towards the end of our financial year. If these paper 
losses do indeed materialise in due course from continued euro 
strength, they will be compensated through our hedging strategy  
by higher operating profits resulting from our euro exports when 
translated back into sterling. 
People
These excellent results have been attained through the application, 
energy and creativity of the management team and indeed all the 
employees that form part of plastics c apital. The Group now employs 
over 280 people and many with specialist technical skills, whose effort 
day to day is vital in underpinning the performance of the Group. 
During the year, we have appointed Andrew Walker, formerly chief 
executive of McKechnie, to our Board as non-executive Director and 
also nicholas Ball, who is our Group financial Director. Both 
appointees are excellent additions. c hris Allner, who prior to listing 
represented o ctopus Investments has stood down from our Board. 
We are very grateful for the contribution and support that c hris and 
the wider team at o ctopus have made to our development.
Outlook
for the next 12 months, significant sales and profitability growth is 
expected as the full effect of the acquisitions made in the last financial 
year is recognised, and as new business converted in the last financial 
year turns into production orders. o ver and above this, the outlook for 
the business hinges on the external economic environment and on the 
potential for acquisitions being completed in the current financial year.
The external environment is difficult at the present time; economic 
conditions in the uK are at their worst for some time, inflationary 
pressures are a factor globally due to high oil and food prices and  
the availability of credit is very tight. notwithstanding this, to date 
demand for the Group's products in aggregate appears to have been 
only slightly affected. The diversity of what we make and where it 
goes both by geography and application gives plastics c apital a 
degree of resilience which is very helpful in difficult times. 
furthermore where raw material prices have increased we have taken 
steps to pass the additional costs on or to re-engineer to avoid 
incurring cost increases.
In terms of acquisitions, a number of opportunities are actively being 
pursued. o ur target has been to carry out two to three transactions 
per year of similar size to those carried out to date and we see no 
reason now to revise this target based on current levels of activity.  
It is always difficult to predict when and if acquisitions will complete 
but based on current activity we still believe that new acquisitions will 
contribute significantly to our growth in the next 12-24 months.
o verall, the Board is confident of another year of significant progress.
Faisal Rahmatallah
executive c hairman
30 June 2008
The Group's 
Gro WTh Is BeInG 
Dr Iven BY 
peneTr ATIon of 
neW MAr KeTs, 
pro Duc T 
Develop MenT 
AnD AcquI sITIons.
Creasing Matrix
> A range of creasing 
matrix products