 Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
124
Back to the contents
6. Corporate  
governance report
6.1. Chairman's statement
Polyus has applied principles set out in the UK Corporate Gov-
ernance Code, including the Principles relating to the Role and 
Effectiveness of the Board in 2012.
I am pleased to state that for the reporting year the Com-
pany complied with the provisions set out in the Code, and 
the Board complied with main principles of the Code. 
I joined the Polyus' Board in October 2013 and was excited 
that the Company operated high-level corporate governance 
standards and welcomed new initiatives. It is my pleasure 
to chair the Board of such a Company. Such standards are 
very important for me personally and for my colleagues on 
the Board.
The Governance section explains how we achieve that and 
how the principles have been applied. you may also refer to 
the Directors' remuneration report and the Audit Committee 
report for additional information on compliance with the Code.
Leadership
In my opinion, the Company is headed by an effective 
Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company. Every Director acts in what they 
consider the best interests on the Company, consistent with 
their statutory duties. There is a clear division of respon-
sibilities at the head of the Company between the Board 
and the executives responsible for the running of the Com-
pany's business. No one individual has unfettered powers 
of decision. As Chairman of the Board, I am responsible for 
leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in 
all aspects of its role. The Non-Executive Directors, as part 
of their role as members of a unitary Board, constructively 
challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Effectiveness
The Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Company to enable them to discharge their respective du-
ties and responsibilities.
Appointment of new Directors to the Board is made on the basis 
of formal, rigorous and transparent procedures and the search 
for Board candidates is made against objective criteria with due 
regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board. Detailed expla-
nation is given in section 6.11 Nomination Committee report .
All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Com-
pany to discharge their responsibilities effectively. In com-
pliance with the Code (cl. B.3.2) the terms and conditions 
of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection by any person at the Company's registered office 
during the normal business hours and at the AGM. 
All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and 
regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge and 
familiarity with the Company as required in order to fulfil 
their role. Directors are supplied in a timely manner with 
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable 
them to discharge their duties.
In the year 2013 the Board undertook a formal and rigorous 
annual evaluation of its performance and that of its Com-
mittees and individual Directors. Please refer to the para-
graph headed Evaluation , later in this section.
All Directors are submitted for re-election annually, and 
their re-appointment is subject to their continued satisfac-
tory performance. 
Accountability
The Board's responsibility to present a fair, balanced and un-
derstandable assessment extends to interim and other price-
sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as to 
information required to be presented by statutory requirements. 
The Board annually conducts a review of the effectiveness 
of the Company's risk management and internal control sys-
tems, including financial, operational and compliance con-
trol. Please refer to section 6.10 Risk Committee report .
The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements 
for considering how to apply corporate reporting, risk manage-
ment and internal control principles and for maintaining an ap-
propriate relationship with the Company's auditors. For more 
information please refer to section 6.9 Audit Committee report .
Remuneration
Directors' remuneration is sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Com-
pany successfully. For detailed information please see sec-
tion 4.2 Remuneration Committee report .  Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
125
Back to the contents
Relationships with shareholders
The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders based on 
the mutual understanding of objectives. The Board use the 
AGM to communicate with the investors and to encourage 
their participation. The Directors attended the AGM held 
on 31 May 2013. Directors have developed an understand-
ing of the views of major shareholders about the Company 
through direct face-to face contact, analysts' briefings and 
surveys of shareholder opinion. A notice of AGM and related 
papers were made available to shareholders and placed on 
the website on 29 April 2013. 
The chairmen of the Committees usually present at the AGM 
and are available to answer questions. The Company arrang-
es for the Notice of the AGM and related papers to be sent 
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company places great importance on maintaining ac-
tive engagement with its key financial audiences: institu-
tional investors, including current and potential sharehold-
ers, bondholders and both equity and fixed income sell-side 
analysts. 
The Company strictly abides by all applicable disclosure re-
quirements for its premium listing on the LSE. Following 
the placement of our first Eurobond in 2013, we further 
improved transparency of our reporting to ensure equal ac-
cess for all financial audiences to price-sensitive informa-
tion, and to better facilitate investor communications. 
The Company releases trading updates on a quarterly basis, 
and in accordance with IFRS, releases financial results on a 
half-yearly basis. Such announcements are always support-
ed by webcast presentations and conference calls conduct-
ed on the same day and hosted by Senior management. 
Relevant reports, announcements and presentations of re-
sults and other developments of importance to the market, 
are immediately placed on the Company's website www.
polyusgold.com in the  investors' or  media' sections. The 
market is informed well in advance about forthcoming re-
sults announcements in the  investor calendar' section of 
the web-site. Historical financial information is also available 
on the web-site. 
The Company's Senior management maintain contact with 
our investor base around the world through regular road-
shows (1-2 per year), investor conferences (about 10 per 
year) and other investor meetings. In 2013, the Company 
participated in 11 investor conferences and met over 150 
institutional investors. 
Geographical distribution of PGIL free float
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
I confirm that during the reporting year the Company has 
complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
corporate governance statement can be found in section 5 
Directors' report . 
Details of the Board evaluation policy and its operation are 
given below. The Nomination Committee established a Diver-
sity policy, which was approved by the Board and a summary 
is presented below. In addition, the Board and the HSEC 
Committee developed the Human Rights policy. The policies 
were adopted at a Board meeting on 13 December 2013. 
Board evaluation
The Board is required to review its performance and that of 
its members. This year the process was facilitated internally 
with a review of questionnaires completed by the individual 
Directors. The results were considered by the Board as part of 
its review of performance. The questionnaire asked Directors 
to grade areas such as the performance of the Board and its 
Committees, the effectiveness of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, the monitoring of operational performance, and cor-
porate governance, as well as leadership and culture.
In the normal course of business, an annual performance re-
view of the Board and its Committees is undertaken in accord-
ance with section  .6.1 of the Code. A performance review of 
the Chairman of the Board was undertaken in February 2014.
The evaluation process concluded that the Board and its 
Committees remain effective in fulfilling their responsibili-
ties and that each Director continues to make a valuable 
contribution to the running of the Group. An external Board 
evaluation process will be carried out in 2014.
In addition, the Audit Committee carried out a self-assess-
ment of its performance in December 2013 and the Chair-
man of the Audit Committee reported on this process to the 
Board in December.
Ilya Yuzhanov
Chairman of the Board, London, 24 March 2014
Rest of 
the World China Russia UK
Europe 
(ex-UK)
North 
America
38%
23% 15%
10%
9%
6%