 Dear Shareholder,
1. Introduction
Notice of the Company's forthcoming 
annual general meeting to be held on 
Tuesday 16 December 2008 (AGM  or 
Annual General Meeting ) appears on 
the following pages. Your Board is not 
recommending the payment of a 
dividend.
2. Resolutions to be 
proposed at the AGM
Ordinary Business
Annual report and accounts 
(Resolution 1)
A copy of the annual report and 
accounts (together with the Directors' 
and Auditors' reports on the annual 
report and accounts) for the Company 
for the financial year ended 31 July 
2008 (the Accounts ) has been sent to 
you with this document. Shareholders 
will be asked to receive the Accounts at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Re-appointment of auditors 
(Resolution 2)
The Company is required at each 
general meeting at which accounts are 
presented to appoint auditors to hold 
office until the next such meeting.  
Nexia Smith & Williamson Audit 
Limited have indicated their 
willingness to continue in office. 
Accordingly, Resolution 2 proposes 
their re-appointment as auditors of the 
Company to hold office from the 
conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting until the conclusion of the 
next annual general meeting of the 
Company at which Accounts are laid, 
and authorises the Directors to 
determine their remuneration.
Retirement by Directors 
(Resolutions 3 to 8)
Article 87 of the Company's articles of 
association requires that any Director 
appointed by the Board shall retire at 
the first annual general meeting 
following his appointment. All of the 
Directors of the Company (being Ken 
Ratcliff, Andrew Hindle, Walter Roberts, 
Craig Gouws, Mark Abbott and 
Maurice Hazzard) are retiring pursuant 
to this article and Resolutions 3 to 8 
propose their re-appointment. Brief 
biographical details of each of the 
Directors appear on pages 13 and 14 
of the Accounts.
Special Business
Authority of Directors to allot shares 
(Resolution 9)
The authority given to the Directors to 
allot further shares in the capital of the 
Company requires the prior authorisation 
of the shareholders in general meeting 
under section 80 Companies Act 1985. 
Upon the passing of Resolution 9, the 
Directors will have authority to allot 
shares up to a maximum of  2,346,157 
which is approximately one third of the 
current issued share capital as at 
7 November 2008, being the latest 
practicable date before the publication 
of this Letter. This authority will expire 
immediately following the annual 
general meeting in 2009 or, if earlier, 
six months following the date to which 
the Company's next annual report and 
accounts are made up to.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights 
(Resolution 10)
If the Directors wish to exercise the 
authority under Resolution 9 and offer 
unissued shares (or sell any shares 
which the Company may purchase and 
elect to hold as treasury shares) for 
cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires 
that unless shareholders have given 
Letter from the Chairman with 
notice of Annual General Meeting
Portland Gas plc 
(
The Company 
)
(Incorporated and registered in England and Wales with registered number 06409712)
Directors:
Ken Ratcliff (Non-executive Chairman)
Andrew Hindle (Chief Executive Officer)
Walter Roberts (Legal and Commercial Director)
Craig Gouws (Chief Financial Officer)
Maurice Hazzard (Non-executive Director)
Mark Abbott (Non-executive Director)
Registered Office:
Blackstable House
Longridge
Sheepscombe
Stroud
GL6 7QX
9 November 2008
Portland Gas plc 44 CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
specific authority for the waiver of the 
statutory pre-emption rights, the new 
shares be offered first to existing 
shareholders in proportion to their 
existing shareholdings. In certain 
circumstances, it may be in the best 
interests of the Company to allot new 
shares (or to grant rights over shares) for 
cash without first offering them to 
existing shareholders in proportion to 
their holdings. Resolution 10 would 
authorise the Directors to disapply the 
strict statutory pre-emption provisions.
This would provide the Directors with a 
degree of flexibility to act in the best 
interests of the Company so that (i) the 
Company can follow normal practice in 
the event of a rights issue, open offer or 
other offer of securities in favour of the 
existing shareholders in proportion to 
their shareholdings; and (ii) shares may 
be issued for cash to persons other than 
existing shareholders up to an 
aggregate nominal value of  351,923 
which is equivalent to 5% of the issued 
share capital of the Company on 
7 November 2008, being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication 
of this Letter. If given, the authority will 
expire on the conclusion of the annual 
general meeting in 2009 or, if earlier, six 
months following the date to which the 
Company's next annual reports and 
accounts are made up to.
Articles of Association (Resolution 11)
We are asking shareholders to approve 
a number of amendments to our 
articles of association, primarily to 
reflect the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006. An explanation of the main 
changes between the proposed and 
existing articles of association is set out 
in the Appendix 1 to this Letter on 
page 46 of this document. The 
remaining provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006 are expected to come into 
force in October 2009. In addition, 
various regulations that relate to certain 
of these provisions have yet to be 
finalised. Consequently, it will be 
necessary for the Company to 
undertake a further review of its articles 
of association in due course in order to 
reflect these other provisions.  
As these further changes to the articles 
of association will be reasonably 
substantial in number, it is anticipated 
that the Company will adopt a new set 
of articles of association at its annual 
general meeting in 2009/2010.
3. Recommendation
Your Directors consider the resolutions to 
be proposed at the AGM to be in the 
best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole. Consequently, 
the Directors recommend shareholders 
to vote in favour of the resolutions as 
they intend to do in respect of their own 
beneficial holdings totalling 14,421,887 
ordinary shares (representing 20.49 per 
cent. of the Company's issued share 
capital as at the date of this Letter). 
A form of proxy is included for use at 
the AGM. Forms of proxy should be 
completed, signed and returned as 
soon as possible and in any event so as 
to be received by Capita Registrars at 
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 
48 hours prior to the time appointed for 
the holding of the AGM on 16 
December 2008. 
Completion of a proxy form will not 
prevent you from attending the AGM in 
person if you so wish.
Yours sincerely,
Ken Ratcliff
Non-executive Chairman
Portland Gas plc 45 Conflicts of interest
The Companies Act 2006 sets out 
Directors' general duties which largely 
codify the existing law but with some 
changes. Under the Companies Act 
2006, from 1 October 2008 a Director 
must avoid a situation where he has, 
or can have, a direct or indirect 
interest that conflicts, or possibly may 
conflict, with the company's interests.  
The requirement is very broad and 
could apply, for example, if a Director 
becomes a Director of another 
company or a trustee of another 
organisation. 
The Companies Act 2006 allows 
Directors of public companies to 
authorise conflicts and potential 
conflicts, where appropriate, where the 
articles of association contain a 
provision to this effect. The Companies 
Act 2006 also allows the articles of 
association to contain other provisions 
dealing with Directors' conflicts of 
interest to avoid a breach of duty.  
The amended articles give Directors 
authority to approve such situations 
and include other provisions to allow 
conflicts of interest to be dealt with in 
a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply 
when Directors decide whether to 
authorise a conflict or potential conflict.  
First, only Directors who have no interest 
in the matter being considered will be 
able to take the relevant decision, and, 
secondly, in taking the decision the 
Directors must act in a way they consider, 
in good faith, will be most likely to 
promote the company's success. The 
Directors will be able to impose limits or 
conditions when giving authorisation if 
they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the articles 
should contain provisions relating to 
confidential information, attendance at 
board meetings and availability of 
board papers to protect a Director 
being in breach of duty if a conflict of 
interest or potential conflict of interest 
arises. These provisions will only apply 
where the position giving rise to the 
potential conflict has previously been 
authorised by the Directors.  
It is the Board's intention to report 
annually on the Company's procedures 
for ensuring that the Board's powers to 
authorise conflicts are operated 
effectively and that the procedures 
have been followed.
Convening extraordinary 
and annual general meetings
The provisions in the current articles 
dealing with the length of notice 
required to convene general meetings 
are being amended to conform to new 
provisions in the Companies Act 2006.  
In particular, a general meeting (other 
than an AGM) to consider a special 
resolution can be convened on 14 days' 
notice where previously 21 days' notice 
was required.
Directors' indemnities and 
loans to fund expenditure
The Companies Act 2006 has in some 
areas widened the scope of the powers 
of a company to indemnify directors 
and to fund expenditure incurred in 
connection with certain actions against 
directors. In particular, a company that 
is a trustee of an occupational pension 
scheme can now indemnify a director 
against liability incurred in connection 
with a company's activities as trustee of 
the scheme. In addition, the existing 
exemption allowing a company to 
provide money for the purpose of 
providing a director's defence in court 
proceedings now expressly covers 
regulatory proceedings and applies to 
associated companies.
Appendix 1
Changes to the articles of association
Portland Gas plc 46