 Portland Gas plc
Dear Shareholder,
1. Introduction
Notice of the Company's forthcoming 
annual general meeting to be held on 
Tuesday 15th December 2009 (AGM  or 
Annual General Meeting ) appears on 
the following pages.
As in previous years your Board is not 
recommending the payment of a 
dividend.
2. Resolutions to be
proposed at the AGM
Ordinary Business
Annual Report and Accounts 
(Resolution 1)
A copy of the annual report and 
accounts (together with the Directors' 
and Auditors' reports on the annual 
report and accounts) for the Company 
for the financial year ended 31 July 
2009 (the Accounts ) has been sent to 
you with this document. Shareholders 
will be asked to receive the Accounts at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Re-appointment of Auditors 
(Resolution 2)
The Company is required at each 
general meeting at which accounts are 
presented to appoint auditors to hold 
office until the next such meeting. Nexia 
Smith & Williamson Audit Limited have 
indicated their willingness to continue 
in office. Accordingly, Resolution 2 
proposes their re-appointment as 
auditors of the Company to hold office 
from the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting until the conclusion of 
the next annual general meeting of the 
Company at which Accounts are laid, 
and authorises the Directors to 
determine their remuneration.
Retirement by Directors 
(Resolutions 3 to 5)
Jonathan Davie who was appointed to 
the Board on 16 December 2008, retires 
in accordance with the Company's 
Articles of Association and offers himself 
for re-election. Craig Gouws and Mark 
Abbott are the Directors retiring by 
rotation this year and each offers 
himself for re-election. All members of 
the Board are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at least once 
every three years. Brief biographical 
details of each of the Directors appear 
on pages 10 and 11 of the Accounts.
Special Business
Authority of Directors to Allot Shares 
(Resolution 6)
The authority given to the Directors to 
allot further shares in the capital of the 
Company requires the prior 
authorisation of the shareholders in 
general meeting under section 551 
Companies Act 2006. Upon the passing 
of Resolution 6, pursuant to paragraph 
(A) of the Resolution, the Directors will 
have authority to allot shares up to a 
maximum of  2,376,806 which is 
approximately one third of the current 
issued share capital as at 9 November 
2009, being the latest practicable date 
before the publication of this Letter. 
This authority will expire immediately 
following the annual general meeting 
in 2010 or, if earlier, six months 
following the date to which the 
Company's next annual report and 
accounts are made up.
In addition, in accordance with the 
guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI ) on the expectations of 
institutional investors in relation to the 
authority of directors to allot shares, 
upon the passing of Resolution 6, the 
Directors will have authority (pursuant 
to paragraph (B) of the Resolution) to 
allot an additional number of ordinary 
shares up to a maximum of  2,376,806, 
which is approximately a further third 
of the current issued ordinary share 
capital as at 9 November 2009, being 
the latest practical date before the 
publication of this Letter. However, the 
Directors will only be able to allot those 
shares for the purposes of a rights issue 
in which the new shares are offered to 
existing shareholders in proportion to 
their existing shareholdings. This 
authority will also expire immediately 
following the next annual general 
meeting or, if earlier, six months 
following the date to which the 
Company's next annual report and 
accounts are made up to.
As a result, if Resolution 6 is passed, the 
Directors could allot shares representing 
up to two-thirds of the current issued 
share capital pursuant to a rights issue.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights 
(Resolution 7)
If the Directors wish to exercise the 
authority under Resolution 6 and offer 
unissued shares (or sell any shares 
which the Company may purchase 
Letter from the Chairman with 
notice of Annual General Meeting
Portland Gas plc 
(
The Company 
)
(Incorporated and registered in England and Wales with registered number 06409712)
Directors:
Ken Ratcliff (Non-executive Chairman)
Andrew Hindle (Chief Executive Officer)
Craig Gouws (Chief Financial Officer)
Walter Roberts (Legal and Commercial Director)
Mark Abbott (Non-executive Director)
Jonathan Davie (Non-executive Director)
Maurice Hazzard (Non-executive Director)
Registered Office:
Blackstable House
Longridge
Sheepscombe
Stroud
GL6 7QX
9 November 2009
Portland Gas plc 37 and elect to hold as treasury shares) 
for cash, the Companies Act 2006 
requires that unless shareholders have 
given specific authority for the waiver 
of the statutory pre-emption rights, the 
new shares be offered first to existing 
shareholders in proportion to their 
existing shareholdings. In certain 
circumstances, it may be in the best 
interests of the Company to allot new 
shares (or to grant rights over shares) 
for cash without first offering them to 
existing shareholders in proportions to 
their holdings. 
Resolution 7 would authorise the 
Directors to do this by allowing the 
Directors to allot shares for cash (i) by 
way of a rights issue (subject to certain 
exclusions), (ii) by way of an open offer 
or other offer of securities (not being a 
rights issue) in favour of existing 
shareholders in proportions to their 
shareholdings (subject to certain 
exclusions) and (iii) to persons other 
than existing shareholders up to an 
aggregate nominal value of 713,042 
which is equivalent to 10 per cent of the 
issued share capital of the Company on 
9 November 2009, being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication 
of this Letter. If given, the authority will 
expire on the conclusion of the annual 
general meeting in 2010 or, if earlier, six 
months following the date to which the 
Company's next annual reports and 
accounts are made up.
For this purpose the ABI 
recommendation for companies on the 
LSE main list is 5% although it is 
generally recognised that for smaller 
companies and those on AIM this may 
be too constrictive. As you will be 
aware from reading the Report and 
Accounts, in addition to progressing the 
Islandmagee project through to the 
drilling stage, your Board is looking at 
a number of new opportunities and we 
believe that some of the associated 
funding requirements may be attractive 
to new investor groups. The nature of 
our business means that projects in 
which we will have an interest will 
normally require up-front investment 
and can take a long time to fully 
develop. Consequently I would ask that 
you approve a 10% disapplication of 
pre-emption rights to provide your 
Board with the flexibility to pursue such 
opportunities without incurring the costs 
of a rights issue or the need to market 
part of the investment opportunity to 
third parties.
Articles of Association 
(Resolution 8)
The provisions regulating the operations 
of the Company are currently set out in 
the Company's Memorandum and 
Articles of Association. The Company's 
Memorandum contains, among other 
things, the objects clause which sets 
out the scope of the activities the 
Company is authorised to undertake. 
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly 
reduces the constitutional significance 
of a company's memorandum. The 
Companies Act 2006 provides that a 
memorandum will record only the 
names of subscribers and the number 
of shares each subscriber has agreed 
to take in the company. Under the 
Companies Act 2006 the objects clause 
and all other provisions which are 
contained in a company's 
memorandum, for existing companies 
at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be 
contained in the company's articles of 
association but the company can 
remove these provisions by special 
resolution. 
Further the Companies Act 2006 states 
that unless a company's articles provide 
otherwise, a company's objects are 
unrestricted. This abolishes the need for 
companies to have objects clauses. For 
this reason the Company is proposing 
to remove its objects clause together 
with all other provisions of its 
memorandum which, by virtue of the 
Companies Act 2006, are now treated 
as forming part of the Company's 
articles of association. Resolution 8 
confirms the removal of these provisions 
for the Company. As the effect of this 
Resolution will be to remove the 
statement currently in the Company's 
memorandum of association regarding 
limited liability, the revised articles of 
association will contain an express 
statement regarding the limited liability 
of shareholders. 
Further, the Companies Act 2006 
abolished the concept of authorised 
share capital. Accordingly, if passed, 
Resolution 8 will delete Article 5 of the 
articles of association of the Company 
which sets its authorised share capital.
Change of Name 
(Resolution 9)
In order that the Portland Gas  name 
can remain with the Portland Project 
where it is very well established in 
Dorset; this resolution proposes to 
change the name of Portland Gas plc 
to Infrastrata plc. The Portland Project 
company, Portland Gas Holdings 
Limited, will then be renamed to 
Portland Gas Limited.
3. Recommendation
Your Directors consider the Resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM to be in the 
best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole. Consequently, 
the Directors recommend shareholders 
to vote in favour of the Resolutions as 
they intend to do in respect of their own 
beneficial holdings totalling 14,997,287 
ordinary shares (representing 21.3 per 
cent. of the Company's issued share 
capital as at the date of this Letter). 
A form of proxy is included for use at 
the AGM. Forms of proxy should be 
completed, signed and returned as soon 
as possible and in any event so as to be 
received by Capita Registrars at The 
Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 
48 hours prior to the time appointed for 
the holding of the AGM on 15th 
December 2009. Completion of a proxy 
form will not prevent you from attending 
the AGM in person if you so wish.
Yours sincerely,
Ken Ratcliff
Non-executive Chairman
CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
Portland Gas plc 38