 Chairman's Statement
PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
3
It is very pleasing to report, in this my first
report to shareholders as Chairman of the
Company, on the second complete year 
of the successful turnaround of Portrait
Software. Accordingly, it is very pleasing to
be able to report that 2005 was the second
successive year when the Company was 
able to declare a profit from its operations.
This has been followed by the recent
announcement of an over-subscribed 
placing of the Company's shares to 
raise approximately  4.75 million, net 
of expenses. This means the financial 
re-structuring of the Group, started in
September 2002, is now virtually complete
and will ensure the Company is well
positioned to pursue its business strategy 
on a firm financial footing.
Market development
We believe that the emerging market 
for Application Platform Suites (APS) will
expand significantly over the next few years
and I believe that Portrait Software is well
positioned to exploit this opportunity.
Importantly this is not a new market
dependent upon many external factors, 
but it is a displacement one, where
developers of complex high volume
Customer Interaction Management
applications, will choose Portrait Software to
be their main development tool, rather than
older, less efficient and more cumbersome
development programming languages. 
Business development
In order to get a better focus on 
core activities, Nick Randall completed 
a reorganisation into three divisions 
earlier this year. The fruits of this
refocusing are already coming through 
in terms of more management attention
on the critical success factors in having
the Company's products and services
distributed more aggressively to both
existing and new customers, in most 
cases via Partner Channels.
The most exciting development has been 
to see our core Portrait product gaining
momentum (we now have thirteen Portrait
customers worldwide) and real traction in
the market leading to new business wins
and partnerships on an international basis,
for example, our first major customer in the
Emergency Call Handling market going live. 
Perhaps the most significant event of 
the year came in our last quarter when 
we signed an important new collaboration
agreement with Fiserv CBS Worldwide, 
a division of Fiserv, Inc. Fiserv, Inc. is one 
of the top providers of IT products and
services to the finance sector with reported
sales exceeding $3.7 billion last year. This
agreement will see Fiserv CBS Worldwide
developing a range of products under its 
own brand (CBS Aperio) for the banking 
and financial services sector which will be
 powered by Portrait' and which will be 
sold through its global distribution network. 
Another more recent important development
in the first quarter of FY06 has been the
signing of our first order for Portrait software
with the China Automobile Association, 
who have recently been purchased by IAG.
We plan to work with Ultrapower, who 
are a leading Chinese Microsoft software
partner, to help develop a Portrait based
sales and service platform. In addition, 
we will work with Ultrapower to develop 
other opportunities in the rapidly expanding
financial services market in China.
Product development
The Board strongly believe that the Portrait
suite of development tools is integral to
the future development of the Company.
Our opinion is that the three components:
a powerful back-end process engine,
comprehensive integration capability 
and a fully functional front-end Customer
Interaction module, supporting multi-channel
communications over the Internet, in the
branch, by telephone, post, fax and so on
are second to none.
During the last year, 25% of total revenue
was spent on Portrait product R&D. This is 
at the high end for any profitable company 
in the software sector, worldwide, where 
in my experience the industry average is in
the order of 13-15%. We believe this is the
core asset of your company and this degree
of investment should help to ensure it
maintains its leading edge in the emerging
market for Application Platform Suites. 
Financial highlights
Regarding the year ended 31 March 2005,
turnover was  14.3 million which was below
the  19.6 million achieved in 2004. This
was mainly due to our continuing strategy 
of focusing on licence sales by partners who
themselves carry out most of the services
work associated with these contracts. 
A result of this strategy was a reduction in
services revenue from  8.6 million in 2004
to  4.0 million in 2005.
Operating profit excluding exceptional
income was  1.5 million before exceptional
income of  0.2 million (2004:  1.3 million
before exceptional income of  1.0 million).
Pre-tax profit was  1.4 million including
exceptional income (2004:  2.0 million
including exceptional income). Adjusted
diluted earnings per share were 2.45p
(2004: 3.27p) after excluding goodwill
amortisation, exceptional items and
recognition of deferred tax asset. 
Unadjusted diluted earnings per 
share were 2.49p (2004: 7.49p).
Our results for the year have been impacted
by a number of one-off revenue and cost
adjustments, being mainly a legacy of the
massive restructuring activities initiated in
2002. Cash outflow from operating activities
during the year was  3.2 million (2004:
outflow of  1.0 million) which included 
 1.6 million cash outflow arising from
settlement of inherited legacy obligations 
in respect of onerous property leases and
other commercial liabilities. Reported cash
outflow was also affected by the reduction 
in deferred income of  2.5 million, of which
 2.0 million related to the recognition of
prepaid licence revenues previously deferred,
and which accordingly did not contribute to
cash during the year. Consequently our cash
resources were depleted last year, which has
now been addressed by the  4.75 million
fund raising. John O'Connell
Non Executive Chairman
PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Chairman's Statement
4
Change of name
The Board wanted to mark what it considers
to be a new beginning with a new name for
the Group; and AIT Group plc became Portrait
Software plc effective on 9 June 2005. The
new name reflects the focus on the Portrait
product suite which we see as being the
lynchpin of our success going forward.
Dividend policy
No dividend is recommended for this year.
The Board believes that capital should be
allocated to developing our products and
driving future growth.
Board changes
I was delighted to accept the Board's
invitation to become Chairman as announced
on 9 June 2005. I look forward to leveraging
my experience in growing a successful listed
UK based software business internationally,
having been founder, CEO and Chairman of
Staffware plc. I look forward to helping the
Board achieve the Group's potential as a
leader in its chosen markets, following the
successful completion of its turnaround
initiated by Nick Randall, CEO and Matthew
White, CFO approximately two and a half
years ago.
Richard Hicks, having moved from an
Executive Chairman position to a Non
Executive one last year, has now stepped
down completely from the Board. On behalf
of the Board, I would like to express our
great gratitude for Richard's participation 
in the Company's development and we 
wish him all the best in the future. 
We also announced recently that Robin
Martin will be joining the Board as Chief
Operating Officer, starting full-time in July.
Robin, who had a similar role at Staffware
plc where he worked very closely with
myself, has been asked by Nick Randall to
lead the Company's drive to sell software
licences worldwide mainly through our
Partner Channel.
Staff
Portrait Software has the benefit of a 
highly talented and loyal workforce which
has been through some major corporate
changes in the last few years. The Board
would like to thank all members of our 
team around the world for their commitment
during a sometimes difficult period. Throughout
this time their contribution to retaining the
vast majority of our customers plus helping
to win some very notable new contracts has
been magnificent. 
Outlook
2005 was a year of major transition 
for our company. We now have a 
proven product with key reference sites. 
We address an established Customer 
Interaction Management software market
where we believe that Application Platform
Suites will play an increasingly important
part. We are well positioned to exploit the
opportunities in this growing area and are
increasingly convinced that our approach 
has significant benefits in terms of cost,
performance and flexibility both for our
partners and end user customers.
We now have a clear  go to market' strategy
via key partners worldwide (including Fiserv,
Inc). Our goal for the next phase is to
increase the number and effectiveness 
of our key partners so that we can steadily
grow sales, improve our profitability and take
full advantage of the opportunities within 
the market in which we operate. Laying firm
foundations for our future growth via partner
channels will be our priority this year. 
John O'Connell
Non Executive Chairman
2 August 2005
I am very pleased to
report, in this my first
report to shareholders 
as Chairman of the
Company, on the second
complete year of the
successful turnaround 
of Portrait Software.
Accordingly, it is very
pleasing to be able to
report that 2005 was the
second successive year
when the Company was
able to declare a profit
from its operations. 
John O'Connell
Non Executive Chairman