  Page 2  
Ascot Mining Plc and Subsidiaries (Registered number: 06009952) 
 
Chairman Statement 
for the year ended 30 September 2011 
 
Business review 
 
The Company is continuing to develop gold exploration, mining and production through its Costa Rican subsidiaries: Veritas Mining 
CR, S.A. (Corporate ID 3-101-468793), Veritas Gold CR, S.A. (Corporate ID 3-101-473214) and Veritas Resource CR, S.A. 
(Corporate ID 3-101-531913). It is also pursuing its previously stated strategy of expanding its portfolio beyond Costa Rica having 
completed its initial investment in an equity stake in a Canadian junior exploration and development company, Mineral Hill Industries 
Ltd. 
 
Management Discussion and Analysis 
 
Significant Events:  
  
  Chassoul, Tres Hermanos and El Recio concessions - 100% ownership. 
  Continued mine development at Chassoul - Cajeta vein development advanced  
  Stabilized mill operations - Chassoul gold processing plant commissioned.  
  Gold production achieved & forecast to steadily increase.  
  Advanced the La Toyota litigation.  
  US$13 million in newly committed and standby funding facilities.  
  Paid out US$4 million in gold forward hedging.  
  Expanded the board.  
 
Gold production has been increasing from a nominal 58 ounces in August 2011; previous production estimates are now regarded as 
ambitious in the short term, although the Company hopes to substantially increase production from 2012 onward.  
  
Chassoul Mine and Mill  
  
Following the recommendations of the Company's Competent Person in his recent NI 43-101 report, the exploration and resource 
development team has been strengthened and is concentrating on developing two additional recently accessed mineralized veins.  
  
In accordance with the Company's operating policy, a number of safety-related construction projects were undertaken to ensure a work 
safe environment for the workers. The Company continues to maintain a zero record of accidents.  
  
With the process plant now upgraded and operating satisfactorily, the Company's efforts will be concentrated on underground mining, 
exploration and development with a view to increasing overall understanding of the significant new vein structures that have been 
identified, as well as increasing production and delivery to the mill of gold bearing ore, particularly from the new Amarilla/Negra 
veins, which is wide enough to accommodate efficient mechanized mining.  
  
The Company will continue focusing on its stated strategy of building shareholder value through its increasing portfolio of attractive 
advanced stage assets and by achieving sustained revenues at its Chassoul operations, where the Board believes that immediate value 
can be realized.  
  
La Toyota  
  
The Company initiated litigation is progressing satisfactorily. Expenditure on La Toyota was written off in the 2010 Financial 
Statements. A satisfactory resolution is anticipated. The exact timing remains unknown.  
  
Corporate Update  
  
The Company is currently working on providing due diligence and informational items required for an AIM admission, and it remains 
committed to listing on AIM and on the TSX as soon as possible.  Furthermore, and in keeping with the Company's strategy to 
broaden its asset base and diversify its operations geographically beyond Costa Rica, additional projects within the Americas are being 
considered.    Page 3  
Ascot Mining Plc and Subsidiaries (Registered number: 06009952) 
 
Chairman Statement - Continued 
for the year ended 30 September 2011 
 
Post Balance Sheet Events and Comment  
  
Gold production was 159 ounces in October 2011; and 203 ounces in November 2011. The Company recorded its first operating profit 
in November, and whilst modest, this represents a positive stage in the development of its operations going forward. Production in 
December was reduced at 87 ounces, as a result of a shortage of leaching chemical, timber and the Christmas holiday period. These 
shortages continued into January, but have since been overcome, such that production in February increased again to 153 ounces. The 
Company remains confident that production will now gradually increase over the coming months towards its stated target of at least 
1,500 ounces per quarter.  
  
Tres Hermanos and El Recio Exploration Concessions  
  
As announced previously, the Company received notification on 23rd December 2011 of the administrative cancellation of its 100% 
owned Tres Hermanos & El Recio exploration concessions. The Board has received a legal opinion that the decision by the Ministry of  
Environment, Energy and Telecommunications is incorrectly based on Article 15 of the current Mining Code (Law No. 6797) which 
establishes that the right of the concession owner to transfer or lease their concessions required a prior authorization of the Department 
of Geology and Mines (DGM) in order for it to be effective or legal.  
 
The Concessions for Tres Hermanos and El Recio were granted under the previous Mining Code (Law No. 1551 of April 20, 1953), 
which was in force until April 4, 1982, when the current Mining Code (Law No. 6797) came into effect. 
 
The previous mining code remains applicable in the case of Tres Hermanos and El Recio. Since then, the concession owners have been 
in compliance with the conditions under which the concessions were originally granted. The current Mining Code states all permits 
and concessions awarded before the effective date of [the current Mining Code] shall be governed, by the rights conferred on areas of 
exploration or exploitation for the term of the validity of the concession under the previous legislation. In all other aspects, the rules set 
forth in this law shall prevail.  
  
For further clarity, the previous Mining Code, which is applicable to Tres Hermanos & El Recio, did not require approval for the lease 
or transfer of the concessions. Article 22 of the previous Mining Code states that any transfer is valid as from the date of its entry in 
the records of this Department. As a result, the Company's legal team in Costa Rica strongly believes that by applying  
  
Article 15 of the current Mining Code to the concessions of Tres Hermanos and El Recio, the Ministry has implemented the law 
retroactively and contrary to the constitutional principle prohibiting the retroactive effect of a law against already acquired or 
grandfathered rights, and their action is therefore illegal.  
  
Having now received this legal opinion, the Company has postponed its planned exploration programme at these locations pending a 
final resolution, and has taken appropriate action to protect its investment by filing lawsuits against the Ministry for the illegal notice of 
administrative cancellation, including seeking costs and damages related to the potential future losses from its proposed exploration and 
development activities. Further information will be released as it becomes available.  
  
Chassoul Mine and Mill  
  
Recently, the Company focused on making substantial improvements to the processing plant. Rubber liners were installed in the 
primary ball mill, considerably improving the ore grind to an optimized fine pulp. The rubber liners (locally sourced and fabricated) 
also considerably reduced the weight and thus wear and tear and has also reduced noise levels.  
  
To date, all exploration, development and gold production at the Chassoul property has occurred within an area of just 12% of the 
existing 2 square kilometre concession. Therefore 88% of the concession is relatively unexplored. 
 
Similar mineralisation is believed to extend in all directions surrounding the current concession area. The Company is developing plans 
to expand the Chassoul concession area from the current 2 square kilometres to 10 square kilometres.  This strategy has the possibility 
of substantially increasing the resource base over time.    Page 4  
Ascot Mining Plc and Subsidiaries (Registered number: 06009952) 
 
Chairman Statement - Continued 
for the year ended 30 September 2011 
 
Corporate Update  
  
As previously announced, the Company has been in formal and informal talks with Mineral Hill Industries Ltd (Mineral Hill) for 
many months. Recent events, including, but not limited to, a recapitalization of Mineral Hill were opportune for the Company to take 
the opportunity to acquire an initial equity stake of 29.7% of Mineral Hill. It has filed an early warning with the Canadian regulatory 
authorities of its intention to increase its stake to at least 65% at an unspecified future date.  
  
Mineral Hill is a Canadian-based mineral exploration and development company trading on the Toronto TSX Venture Exchange 
(MHI), the Frankfurt Exchange (N8Z), and the US OTC Pink Sheets (MHIFF). It has a presence in the USA. 
 
Mineral Hill has an enviable portfolio of gold and lithium properties. It also has a management team, an established association with 
the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX.V), and it has associated consultants which can extend the Company's reach without having to 
increase its overhead substantially. The Company strongly believes its entry costs are attractive in relation to its upside opportunities.  
 
2012 Objectives:  
  
  List on AIM and the TSX.  
  Increase steady state production.  
  Implement the exploration and resource development programme at Chassoul as recommended by Dr. Stewart Jackson PhD. 
Geo, per the recent NI 43-101 competent persons report.  
  Extend the Chassoul concession and advance regional exploration.  
  Establish a significant compliant reserve/resource at the Chassoul property.  
  Broaden and diversify the asset base of the Company beyond Costa Rica.  
  Expand the management team.  
  Diversify the mineral focus of the Company to include strategic metals.  
  Continue the legal case regarding the proposed La Toyota joint venture. 
  Solve the legal dispute regarding the administrative cancelation of our Tres Hermanos and El Recio Concession. 
  
In Summary  
  
The Board remains committed to fulfilling the Company's strategic objectives going forward. Accordingly, the Company intends to: 
Grow shareholder value by building assets and production through the discovery, acquisition, development, mining and processing of 
mineral resources.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the board,  
 
 
 
 
David Jackson 
Chairman 
Date: Wednesday, 28 March 2012 
 
 
  