 Chairman's  
statement
This year, Premier Farnell has continued to pursue 
its strategic vision to become a unique partner for 
customers and suppliers globally. As our refined 
strategy and the related investments we have made 
begin to take effect, the Group is well positioned to 
deliver enhanced financial performance to the benefit 
of its stakeholders. 
Financial performance
As market conditions became more favourable in the 
second half of the year, the Group's top-line trajectory 
improved. Encouragingly, every division delivered sales 
per day growth during the second half and, for the full 
year, the Group returned to sales per day growth. 
There were strong performances by Asia Pacific, Akron 
Brass and MDD Other which all outperformed their 
markets this year, while Europe performed solidly in 
tough market conditions. The Americas had a more 
challenging year but, with a new leadership team, plans 
are in place to improve the business's performance. 
Last year, we outlined how we would aim to optimise 
financial performance through focus on operating 
margin delivered through the balance of sales, gross 
margin and costs. In particular, this more flexible 
approach to gross margin allows us to take care 
of customers in our targeted segments through the 
economic cycles. By meeting customer needs more 
consistently, the Group is better placed to capitalise 
on its growth opportunities and build share in the 
fragmented global marketplace, while ongoing 
management of costs in response to changing market 
conditions will balance the impact of fluctuations in 
gross margin. 
This year, the Group delivered adjusted operating 
margin of 9.6% for the full year, an improvement 
on the levels seen at the end of the prior year (after 
adjusting for the extra week in the prior period). 
A broadly stable performance across the year was 
achieved as the impact of a lower gross margin was 
offset by operational leverage and the implementation 
of operating efficiencies.
In the year ahead, the Group will make incremental 
investments in its customer proposition to accelerate 
the execution of our strategy and increase our 
differentiation in the marketplace. As we make 
these investments, the Group's operating margin 
is anticipated to remain at a broadly similar level in 
the coming year. By enhancing our customer and 
supplier proposition, we expect to deliver enhanced 
financial performance in 2015/16 by accelerating our 
sales growth and as the Group's operating margin 
progresses towards our target of 10% to 12%.
The Group's financial position 
is robust and has allowed us 
to invest in the enhancement 
of our customer proposition. 
The Group's financial position is robust and has allowed 
us to invest in the enhancement of our customer 
proposition. Free cash flow this year reflects the phase 
of planned inventory investments to strengthen our 
product offering, undertaken to position the business 
for future growth. Despite these investments, net debt 
decreased to  225.8 million, which was 2.0 times 
adjusted EBITDA. 
Valerie Gooding, CBE 
Chairman
18 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
017159_PF_AR13-14_2_Overview-Gov_AW.indd   18 24/04/2014   16:01 The Board remains confident that the Group's balance 
sheet provides a stable and long term funding platform 
for the business as we enter this new financial year.
In light of this year's performance and the improving 
trajectory we have seen, together with both the level 
of earnings and cash requirements of the Group, the 
Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0 pence 
per share. Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) on 17 June 2014, this will bring the 
full year dividend to 10.4 pence per share, unchanged 
from last year.
Strategic progress
The Board constantly reviews Premier Farnell's 
performance and the effectiveness of our strategy 
in optimising the value the business can deliver to 
its shareholders. 
Last year, the Group's strategy was evolved to serve 
better the future needs of our customers and suppliers 
in the context of an ever-changing technology market. 
The opportunities in our fragmented and growing 
marketplace are considerable. As we evolved our 
strategy, we also set out the KPIs by which we would 
measure the success of the Group. Taken together, 
these metrics are designed to provide a framework to 
indicate the financial performance that we expect to 
achieve over the course of the economic cycles and 
incorporate measures of growth, efficiency, profitability 
and cash. 
Over the past year, our KPIs illustrate some notable 
successes. The Group returned to sales per day 
growth, made good progress in the development 
of its business in emerging markets and delivered a 
stable operating margin, while cash flow reflected the 
strategic investments made in the first half of the year 
to enhance our product proposition. Performance in 
the active customer base and eCommerce KPIs, where 
progress was not made, reflects actions to phase out 
non-profitable customers and the decommissioning 
of technology used for the automated processing of 
faxes, which was no longer financially beneficial to 
the Group. 
As Laurence explains in his review, beginning on 
page 20, there were some significant advances 
made this year as the Group delivers the three pillars 
of its strategy: enhancing our customer proposition; 
providing a differentiating multichannel model; and 
growing its developing markets. 
For example, the Group saw record levels of customer 
satisfaction following investments in its product 
proposition, achieved significant growth in China and 
India and also successfully completed the first stage in 
the roll-out of its upgraded global web platform, having 
gone live in North America. 
Following the successful acquisition of Embest in 2012 
and its significant progress since then, the Group has 
now signed an agreement to acquire the business and 
assets of AVID Technologies, Inc., a full service product 
development business, subject to certain conditions. 
We look forward to being able to welcome the AVID 
team to the Group. Their technical capability will 
enhance Premier Farnell's capability at the front end of 
electronics, providing further competitive differentiation 
in high service distribution.
Governance and the Board
During the course of the year, we were pleased 
to appoint Peter Ventress to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director. Peter's strategic and commercial 
skills, along with his experience of different regions and 
industries, make him well qualified to make a significant 
contribution to Premier Farnell.
As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and 
ensure its effectiveness. The Board has a full schedule 
of meetings, presentations, training sessions, papers 
and time spent one-to-one between the Executives 
and the Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the 
Board functions effectively, stays informed and knows 
the business and its people in depth. The breadth of 
issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated 
on page 49. In addition, Non-Executive Directors have 
conducted site visits to various locations around our 
businesses, including my visits to Chicago, Leeds, 
Krakow and Lyon as well as to Akron Brass and MCM 
in Ohio. As part of a regular programme to increase 
access to the Board and the Board's exposure to 
the businesses, the Board held one of its scheduled 
meetings at our Chicago offices this year. 
Employees and sustainability
The calibre and commitment of employees throughout 
the organisation continues to impress me. I would like 
to thank all our 4,500 employees for their continued 
efforts as they focus on executing the Company's 
strategy and putting our values into action for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders. 
We are proud to be a leader in business diversity, 
as outlined on page 43, with our European business 
winning the  Company of the Year' at the UK National 
Diversity Awards this year. As a global organisation, 
we recognise that it is not only gender diversity 
that supports the strength and future success of 
the business; and, while we continue to make 
appointments based on the best candidate for every 
role, we remain focused on achieving the right level 
of diversity whether related to ethnicity, gender, sexual 
orientation, creed or culture. 
Demonstrating our continued commitment to operating 
in a sustainable way, we were delighted to be awarded 
a Platinum Big Tick  by Business in the Community 
and to be named by Ethisphere in their list of the 
world's most ethical companies for the fourth year 
in succession. 
Outlook
We are positive about the Group's ability to implement 
our strategic vision. We remain focused on optimising 
the business's financial performance in the year ahead 
as we execute the strategy, grow market share and 
deliver accelerated financial returns. 
Under the guidance of the Board, with strong Executive 
leadership and an enhanced strategic focus, I believe 
Premier Farnell is well positioned to capitalise on the 
expected improvement in the wider economy, and its 
extensive long term opportunities, to the benefit of our 
shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers. 
Valerie Gooding, CBE 
Chairman
Last year, the 
Group' s strategy 
was evolved to 
better serve the 
future needs of our 
customers and 
suppliers in the 
context of an  
ever-changing 
technology market.
19 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements
017159_PF_AR13-14_2_Overview-Gov_AW.indd   19 24/04/2014   16:01