 Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2009
6
Chairman's Statement
The PRC is one of the 
world's largest and fastest 
growing economies 
I am pleased to report that the Company has continued to trade 
profitably despite challenging market conditions. However, 
both of Prosperity's business units, Cement Manufacturing and 
Iron Ore Trading, have been adversely affected by the global 
fi nancial crisis.
Prosperity serves one market, the People's Republic of China 
(PRC ), the third largest economy in the world after the US and 
Japan. China is one of the world's fastest growing economies 
and accounts for more than half the global cement market (both 
in respect of production and consumption) and is the world's 
biggest buyer of iron ore.
Prosperity's wholly-owned subsidiary, Yingde Dragon 
Mountain Cement Co., Ltd Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2009
7
Chairman's Statement
CEMENT MANUFACTURING
Cement Manufacturing has been Prosperity's principal business since 2006 and the Company has been very 
successful since then in expanding its cement production capacity. In addition to initial investments in Yingde 
Dragon Mountain Cement Co., Ltd (YDM ) and Prosperity Conch Cement Co., Ltd (PCC ) and the acquisition 
of a 40
1
 per cent interest in Anhui Chaodong Cement Co., Ltd (ACC ) in June 2007, the Company has 
acquired and invested in three existing cement and clinker manufacturing facilities and three greenfi eld projects 
in 2008. These acquisitions and investments set in motion plans to increase the gross annual production 
capacity under Prosperity's control or infl uence (including the equity interests of partners) to over 34 million 
tonnes of cement and clinker by the end of 2011. The Company's current gross annual production capacity is 
just over 22 million tonnes of cement and clinker, which represents signifi cant growth from 14 million tonnes in 
2006.
I am also pleased to report that construction of the fi rst new clinker production line with capacity of 2 million 
tonnes/year at ACC was successfully completed within budget and on schedule. The production line was 
commissioned on 28 December 2008 and has been running smoothly since then. Construction of the fi rst two 
clinker production lines of 2 million tonnes/year each at the greenfi eld projects in Chongqing Direct Municipal 
City and Liaoning Province are also progressing well and both clinker lines are expected to be completed by 
the end of 2010. The greenfi eld project in Guizhou Province recently obtained all the necessary government 
approvals and Prosperity has made its initial investment. Construction of the fi rst 2 million tonnes/year clinker 
production line in Guizhou Province will commence shortly.
1
 After a share re-structure in July 2007 Prosperity's holding was converted into fully tradable shares. Prosperity now holds a 
33.06% interest in ACC.
Prosperity to increase 
gross annual production to 
over 34 million tonnes by 
the end of 2011 
Limestone is the major raw material ingredient 
necessary for the production of clinker Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2009
8
Chairman's Statement
Prosperity appointed the general managers and other senior management at all of its cement projects, with the 
exception of PCC in which Anhui Conch Cement Company Limited (Anhui Conch ) holds 75 per cent.
Growth and expansion are core objectives of the Company. It is equally important, however, for Prosperity to 
maintain its status as one of the most profi table cement manufacturers in China.
Prosperity enjoys the benefi ts of scale in its operations and is a market leader in most of the locations in which 
it operates. The Company's assets have a strong underlying value derived principally from substantial limestone 
reserves (generally located close to the cement plants), water access (for barging raw material and fi nished 
product) and an established road network. For example, YDM's limestone quarry has a mining life of around 
15 years based on its current reserves and an extraction rate of some 8 million tonnes per annum. Both YDM 
and PCC are located next to the Bei River, which feeds into the Pearl River Delta and provides direct access to 
the major cities in Guangdong such as Guangzhou and Shenzhen and to the South China Sea. ACC in Anhui 
Province is located close to a river connected to the Yangzi River system, which affords access to markets 
along the river both inland and towards Nanjing, Shanghai and the Pacifi c Ocean.
I am confi dent that the Cement Manufacturing Unit is in a good position for long term sustainable growth in 
revenue, income and profi tability.
IRON ORE TRADING
Iron Ore Trading performed well in the year, delivering a record 4.4 
million tonnes in shipments, which is a year-on-year increase of 22 
per cent despite more diffi cult trading conditions in the second half. 
Indeed, the strong sales performance mitigated, in part, the industry 
wide margin reduction which occurred as a result of the collapse in 
the global seaborne iron ore market.
As the global fi nancial crisis and economic slowdown deepened, 
there was a corresponding and signifi cant decrease in the global 
demand for steel and iron ore. Similarly, Chinese steel mills began 
de-stocking and many decreased their production. However, 
shipping rates also decreased substantially from their peak in 
mid 2008 and, from January 2009, iron ore imports into China 
recovered as steel mills took advantage of both lower freight rates 
and spot prices.
YDM and PCC are situated next to the 
Bei River and operates its own port Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2009
9
Chairman's Statement
The Company maintained its prudent risk management policy, engaging only in back-to-back transactions and 
holding no inventory, and it remained profi table in a year in which many of its competitors incurred losses. The 
iron ore trading team was able to secure more tonnage and successfully secured a new long term supplier, 
a large international iron ore producer, and a further sizable steel mill as a new customer, also on a long term 
basis.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company remains committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, with the objective 
of building long term interests and maximising returns for its shareholders and stakeholders. I wish to thank 
our non-executive Directors for their continued efforts in helping the Company to achieve and maintain these 
standards. Their valuable contributions are highly appreciated.
BOARD CHANGES
Ben Ren Liu has stepped down from the Prosperity Board effective 8 July 2009, for personal reasons. On 
behalf of myself and the Board, I wish to express my sincerest gratitude to Ben Ren Liu for his valuable 
contributions as a non-executive Director of the Company.
OUR PEOPLE
None of the achievements in the year would have been possible without the dedication and passion of the 
people who work for Prosperity. Collectively, the spirit, skill and determination of our teams has led to the strong 
performance and growth of the Company. On behalf of myself and the Board, I wish to express my sincerest 
gratitude to the management and staff of Prosperity for their hard work throughout the year.
SHAREHOLDERS
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their support during the year.
DIVIDEND
A fi nal dividend of 1.7 cents per share (2007/8: 12 cents) has been recommended by the Board. If approved 
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM ) on 21 August 2009, the total dividend for the year will be of 1.7 cents 
per share (2007/8: 18 cents).
The Board has taken the decision to offer shareholders an alternative scrip dividend in relation to the fi nal 
dividend payment, in order to provide the opportunity to receive the fi nal dividend in the form of ordinary shares 
instead of cash. The number of shares that shareholders can receive is calculated by dividing the total cash 
dividend due on each shareholding by the scrip dividend reference price and any fractions will be rounded 
down to the nearest share. Shareholders will not be able to choose a mix of scrip and cash dividend payments. 
Further details of the scrip dividend are set out in the AGM Notice and proxy form which will be sent to all 
current shareholders. Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited   Annual Report 2009
10
Chairman's Statement
I am also pleased to inform shareholders that I intend to elect to receive the scrip dividend alternative.
The Company will re-invest the cash retained from the scrip dividend in its businesses.
PROSPECTS
China announced a RMB4 trillion (equivalent to $585 billion) fi scal stimulus package in November 2008 in 
response to the deepening global economic slowdown. However, importantly for Prosperity, the money is 
going into the ground  and not into rescuing insolvent fi nancial institutions. For example, some $450 billion is 
intended for investment in infrastructure, rural development and other fi xed asset investment, and the majority 
of these projects were already at an advanced stage of planning. This means that the stimulus package 
has, and is expected to continue to have, a positive effect on domestic demand for both cement and steel. 
Nonetheless, world consumer demand has weakened which, in turn, has adversely impacted the economy 
of the export-driven province of Guangdong, our main market for cement. We, therefore, expect cement 
prices in Guangdong Province to remain at a low level throughout 2009. A signifi cant decline in the price of 
coal, however, which accounts for more than half the cost of cement manufacture, will benefi t the Company's 
cement manufacturing unit. Iron ore imports to China have reached monthly records in early 2009 and I believe 
that we will be able to increase the tonnage shipped in fi scal 2009/10.
I believe that the Company is well positioned to take advantage of growth in both the cement and iron ore 
markets in China and despite the ongoing diffi cult economic backdrop the Board is looking forward to a year 
of further progress.
David Ben Koon Wong
Chairman & CEO
9 July 2009