 Chairman's Statement
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
6
It was a difficult year, primarily due to a difficult iron 
ore market. However, we have not been idle. First 
and foremost, the dramatic shift in focus of our 
iron ore trading business - from agent to principal 
- continues. Similarly, our real estate strategy of 
identifying well-located development sites in major 
cities looks set to pay off handsomely in fiscal 2014.
IRON ORE OPERATIONS
I have been trading iron ore for more than 20 years 
but in the last three, the industry has undergone 
fundamental change. The catalyst for this was the 
move, in 2010, from annual to quarterly benchmark 
price setting. At the same time, the major producers 
of iron ore have sought to transact a larger 
proportion of their business directly with steel mills. 
Both these factors has led to a squeeze on traders' 
margins, which is why we have re-cast our iron ore 
trading model and chosen to invest directly in future 
raw material supplies at competitive prices.
This also means a shift from a traditional, low capital 
employed, but low margin, trading model to a more 
capital intensive one which will, ultimately, improve 
both profitability and the quality of earnings. We have, 
thus, invested as principal or in off-take agreements, 
and agreed long term contracts, in a range of 
schemes in Asia, Brazil, Canada and South Africa. 
This tonnage is guaranteed in the short, medium and 
long term; and a substantial quantity is guaranteed 
at prices which will be at a discount to whatever the 
prevailing market price is at that time of delivery.
 ...the dramatic shift in 
focus of our iron ore 
trading business - from 
agent to principal - 
continues. Similarly, our 
real estate strategy... 
looks set to pay off 
handsomly in fiscal 
2014.  
Iron ore processing plant in Brazil (UGL) a regional capital in the southern PRC which 
enjoys consistent economic growth year on year. 
Residential sales here are robust and the selling price 
per square metre has exceeded our original targets, 
which means we expect to make a very good return, 
the majority of which will come in the current fiscal 
year. Indeed, under IFRS, revenue and profit on 
property sales is only recognised on completion and 
when legal title passes to the buyer. For the large 
part, these titles will be issued in fiscal 2013-14.
As the project moves towards final completion, we 
can also begin letting the 35,868 square metres of 
retail and commercial space plus 500 car parking 
spaces in one of the busiest parts of Guangzhou. 
This will provide the Company with recurrent and 
growing rental income over time.
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
7
Investment in new iron ore mining is a long term 
business and an attractive rate of return is not 
immediate. At UGL in Brazil (35% owned), for 
example, construction of a processing plant was only 
completed in May 2013. This facility will increase the 
quality of the iron ore from 58 to 63 per cent iron 
content or higher (which sells for higher prices), and 
production capacity from 450,000 tonnes to 900,000 
tonnes per year; while, at the same time, lowering the 
cost of production.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT AND 
DEVELOPMENT
Our key development project is the Oriental 
Landmark which is being built in the heart of 
Guangzhou, one of China's great cities and  Chairman's Statement (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
8
Meantime, in Changzhou City, near Xiamen in Fujian 
Province, progress in a joint venture to develop a 
recreational, commercial and residential scheme 
has been slower than expected. This is due to 
a combination of changes in government policy 
(central and local) and a less buoyant market. 
However, Xiamen is a special economic zone in 
the PRC and the economic and financial centre of 
Fujian Province and we remain confident of long term 
success here.
In real estate, too, we know when it is time to sell 
and, in Hangzhou, we have done just that. The 
divestment is our share (50%) of a commercial real 
estate development site for some $35.6 million and 
on which we will make $3.9 million pre-tax profit 
upon completion.
Finally, our sole investment property, also in 
Guangzhou, SilverBay Plaza continues to enjoy 98 
per cent occupancy.
CEMENT OPERATIONS
We own 33.06 per cent of Anhui Chaodong Cement 
Company Limited (ACC) which contributed $3.3 
million to Prosperity in the year and it recently 
announced a dividend for its fiscal year ended 31 
December 2012. ACC is listed on the Shanghai 
Stock Exchange and, on 21 June, our stake was 
worth $162 million. Prosperity Minerals, as a whole, 
has a market value of $187 million.
Prosperity also has a 16.11 per cent equity interest 
in TCC Liaoning Cement Company Limited (TCC 
Liaoning) in the northern PRC and it added $1.2 
million to our bottom line last year. However, in 
February, we agreed to sell our interest to TCC 
International for around $23 million on which 
Prosperity will make a pre-tax profit of some $7 
million. This is a further example of Prosperity's ability 
to generate excellent returns on its investments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company's focus is on being a responsible 
business which is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance. Hand in hand 
with this strategy, its core objectives are to create a 
durable and sustainable business which maximises 
returns to shareholders. Here, I would like to thank 
our Non-executive Directors for their continued 
counsel and direction.
OUR PEOPLE
The people who work at Prosperity are our greatest 
asset and I thank each and every one of them for their 
hard work and commitment during the year.
SHAREHOLDERS
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support during the year. It is very much 
appreciated by myself and the Board. Chairman's Statement (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
9
DIVIDEND
A final dividend of 3 cents per ordinary share (2011-
12: 9 cents) will be recommended by the Board. If 
approved at the AGM on 10 October 2013, the total 
dividend for the year will also be 3 cents per ordinary 
share (2011-12: 9 cents). Since our IPO seven years 
ago, we have paid a dividend every year plus an 
additional, special dividend in fiscal 2011.
OUTLOOK
At the time of our half year announcement, I said no 
Chairman enjoys reporting a loss; and it is true. But 
in all my time of trading iron ore - over some two 
decades - I have not seen the market behave like it is 
now. For example, spot prices can move by double 
digit percentages in a single day; and Chinese steel 
mills, including a number of Prosperity's long term 
customers, continue to suffer intermittent losses.
This means we have also had to change the way our 
iron ore trading business operates; and we continue 
to transition from agent to principal. But this is not a 
quick fix, it takes time.
It also takes time to develop large mixed-use real 
estate developments. But, again, as we are proving 
in Guangzhou, the benefits are substantial when they 
come. Here, the vast bulk of the 649 residential units 
at Oriental Landmark will be completed and legally 
sold (under IFRS accounting) in the current fiscal 
year. This means we can then book the revenue and 
profit; and, as at mid-June, contracted sales were 
worth $322 million. Elsewhere, we have also just 
agreed to sell a raw development site in Hangzhou 
on which we expect to book a double digit return 
without even putting a spade in the ground.
We sold the bulk of cement manufacturing 
businesses for $500 million in 2010 (and a $200 
million book profit), but continue to own two legacy 
investments. The smaller of these is a 16.11 per cent 
interest in TCC Liaoning Cement and, in February, 
we agreed to sell it with a prospective return of more 
than 40%. We received RMB 115.6 million ($18.3 
million) on 27 June 2013 with the balancing 20% of 
the consideration to be paid upon completion, which 
we expect within the next month or so.
Turning to ACC, this is a listed company in which we 
own just over 33%. The value of this stake is $162 
million. This is 87% of Prosperity Minerals Holdings' 
own market value, which means that all of the 
Company's other businesses are notionally valued at 
less than $25 million.
Prosperity trades exclusively with customers in the 
PRC and the new government here has had its share 
of short term challenges; not least slowing economic 
growth - albeit still around 7% per annum. In the 
medium to longer term, the sheer scale of the nation, 
its vast wealth and population underwrite a bright 
future.
I believe the Company will share in China's growth 
and, empirically, it has proven itself to be an effective 
and very profitable developer and trader in business 
- and of businesses. No more so will this be true 
than in fiscal 2014, when I expect to report a very 
substantial recovery in profits.
(David) Ben Koon Wong
Chairman and CEO
2 July 2013 Management Review and Analysis (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
10 10
Management
Review
and Analysis
Management Management
Review Review
and Analysis and Analysis Management Review and Analysis (Continued)
Prosperity Minerals Holdings Limited  
Annual Report 2013
11 11