 CHAIRMAN AND CEO'S STATEMENT
2  Annual report and financial statements 2013
Proton Power Systems plc
We are pleased to report our results for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Business development
The Group is pleased to report the following achievements in 2013:
   Order received from an Asian based customer for a special maritime feasibility study with a 
value of  297k.
   Order received from Siemens AG for SPower's UPS systems with a value of  857k.
   Completion of development and successful testing of the new PM400 (25kW) stack.
   Finalised development of the PM Module S25 for use with stationary power supply with 
25kW of net power.
   Successful development of a 25kW HyRange System for bus and truck applications.
   Successful testing and operation of the 5kW PM Module with a UPS application within an 
EON power station. 
   Delivery of a 5kW fuel cell system to RENESTA (Airbus Consortium).
   Successful road testing of the Smith Electric Vehicles (SEV ) Newton 7.5 tonne truck with 
the Proton Motor 8kW HyRange and tested with customers in the logistic sector.
   5 years of successful operation for the ZEM passenger ship in Hamburg with more than 
50,000 passengers transported.
   Achieved significant cost reductions for production of the PM200 fuel cell stack and PM 
Module S5.
   Successful development and testing of a 3kVA Solar Battery Storage System from SPower and 
further development of 10kVA version.
   Further improvements of the development infrastructure at our premises in Puchheim.
The Group has finalized the development of products for mobile, stationary and maritime 
applications in the fuel cell clean power market; as well as products for UPS and Solar battery 
storage applications.
The Group now has a complete portfolio of solutions and products and is ready for a roll out into 
the world market. The Group strategy is to establish licensing partners to manufacture solutions 
for the three target market applications: mobile, stationary and maritime systems in Europe and 
Asia Pacific, providing support to its customers from first planning and simulation up to complete  CHAIRMAN AND CEO'S STATEMENT
Annual report and financial statements 2013  3
Proton Power Systems plc
solutions with integration and after sales service. Customers with limited experience or know-how 
for fuel cell based solutions will get the best support available. Benefits for our customers are:
   Fast integration process.
   No specific Fuel Cell know how necessary.
   Cost reductions based on usage of existing Proton Power technology.
Only three companies worldwide are able to provide such in-depth support with own-designed 
and optimized fuel cells; Proton Power Systems in Europe and two other competitors, which are 
located in North America.
Asia Pacific, as a target market, requires our specific attention. Based on the massive pollution 
problems in that region, we expect demand for clean power applications to increase significantly 
in the near future. The commitment from governments to take severe action to improve the 
situation, especially in China, will be a push for our technology. Talks with different companies 
in China support our expectation. We see China as the fastest growing market for fuel cell 
applications in the near future and we will focus our attention and efforts accordingly. Made in 
Germany  technology is highly respected and in demand within China. Initial contracts in China 
are expected to be for bus and stationary power applications.
Furthermore, we are seeing good progress in the market introduction of our products and 
solutions in Europe and are in discussion with several European bus manufacturers. We hope to 
launch our next electric battery fuel cell bus on the road with a bus manufacturer from the Czech 
Republic in the second half of 2015. Intensive talks are also underway with a large international 
logistic company for electric battery fuel cell logistic vehicles, with an initial roll out for Germany 
planned for 2015. We hope to sign a MOU very soon for that project. Another project, funded by 
the Austrian government is anticipated with Magna, an Austrian based automotive supplier.
On the stationary power side, we are seeing very positive market interest for complete high 
power systems with electrolysers, hydrogen storage, repowering with our fuel cell and connection 
to the load via our UPS systems. There is also strong interest in the containerised solutions the 
Group offers for large solar and wind parks from Europe, Africa and China. The Group is currently 
working with different suppliers in Europe for the supply of electrolysers. Our modular fuel 
cell design based on our 25kW modules allows us to provide high power delivery up to several 
Megawatts.
Our first stationary solar battery storage system from SPower is generating a lot of interest in 
the Middle East. With sun hours of more than 2,000 per year, production cost of the complete 
system (solar modules and storage system) for the end user is down to  0.10 per kWh which is 
cheaper than the price for grid power in most countries. We have also improved our system with 
the addition of a central control unit, which allows the integrating of our system into a smart 
grid network. Many of our systems can be operated in parallel with this new feature. A utility 
company can access and monitor our system centrally and can charge or discharge the batteries 
remotely. This allows the use of solar energy if required alongside power from the grid to charge 
the batteries, if there is overcapacity of grid power available. The system can also be operated in 
an island / stand-alone mode (not grid connected). We expect high growth for such applications in 
the near future.
In the maritime sector, we have received requests from China for similar ship installations like the 
Alsterwasser in Hamburg. We see the maritime applications as long term business. Nevertheless 
our unique know-how in that sector provides us with a very competitive position in the fuel cell 
market. CHAIRMAN AND CEO'S STATEMENT
4  Annual report and financial statements 2013
Proton Power Systems plc
We have achieved our development targets for 2013: systems have been tested in depth, 
reliability was proven and the lifetime in use for our fuel cell stacks is now above 10,000 hours. 
We have also continued to extend our component supplier base, which, due to specification and 
quality control procedures, is an extensive process.
To support the above market developments we have completely updated our product literature, 
our web site and have participated in exhibitions thoughout Europe.
The Group's product strategy includes:
   Modular stationary power of 5kW, 25kW and 50kW for IT, Smart Grid (Solar-and Windparks) 
and industrial applications.
   A modular Range Extender (HyRange) for light duty commercial vehicles and city buses of 
8kW and 25kW/50kW or 75kW.
   Maritime modular fuel cell systems of 25kW for high power applications. 
Targets for 2014 are:
   First orders from Asia Pacific for our products and solutions.
   Orders for new buses with a HyRange system in Europe.
   Orders for HyRange systems for logistic vehicles.
   Order for containerized Hydrogen Power.
   First significant orders for our solar battery storage system.
   Further strengthening of our product platform.
   Enlarging our team with highly qualified staff.
Finance
Turnover increased by 21% to  1,114,000 mainly as a result the acquisition of SPower. The 
operating loss for the year was  4,896,000 which, when added to net finance costs of  828,000 
and the non-cash loss arising from the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative on the 
shareholder loan of  3,543,000 resulted in a total loss of  9,267,000. With the exception of the 
fair value loss on the embedded derivative, this was in line with management expectations.
The Group secured new loan funding in 2013 of  8,019,000 from Roundstone Properties Limited 
and received grant funding of  271,000 from the German Government.
In addition to the above the group received  535,000 from sales of UPS systems. 
The total funds raised financed the working capital for the year. The Company continues to be 
interested in involving other investors alongside Roundstone Properties Limited in this exciting 
opportunity.
Outlook
The Board sees the Group as a solitaire in the clean tech market. The unique know how and 
positioning of Proton Power underlines the high expectation in business development as well as 
the positive trend of our share price. Together with the SPower product line, the Group can offer 
a complete range of products, which addresses the fast growing markets worldwide of: clean 
transport, clean power and energy storage. CHAIRMAN AND CEO'S STATEMENT
Annual report and financial statements 2013  5
Proton Power Systems plc
The main shareholder has committed itself to continue to finance the Group's activities based on 
the Group's complete product line, strong market growth for its products and systems and our 
team of experts. New partnerships, especially in China are expected to have a huge impact on the 
Group's business.
On behalf of the Board we would like to take this opportunity to thank the Proton Power team 
and our advisors for their hard work and effort as well as our customers and suppliers for their 
confidence and support throughout the year.
John Wall FCA
Chairman
Dr Faiz Nahab
CEO