 2 Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report that our
Pharmaceuticals business achieved record
sales of  11.4m in 2004, 5% ahead of last
year. These sales were underpinned by
Diclomax
 
sales of  6.1m, additional
product launches midway through the
year, and our first full year of operation
in Ireland. The business recorded an
operating profit of  1.8m, despite
incurring increased costs associated
with bespoke projects to improve both
sales and margins on its product range.
These projects should begin to pay
back towards the end of the next
financial year.
2004 was a challenging year for our Medical
Diagnostics business, particularly following
the promising year we had in 2003. In the
first half of the year in particular, sales of
Glycosal
 
were influenced by supply chain
destocking in the US, the impact of a
weaker US Dollar and the global roll out
of the product to markets such as China,
India and Southern Europe being slower
than forecast by our distributors. However,
sales did recover in the second half of the
year and the business achieved sales of
 1.5m (2003:  3.1m).
As a result of the lower Medical Diagnostics
sales, Group sales of  12.9m were below
those in 2003 ( 14.0m). As margins were
essentially similar, the Group operating
loss for the year increased from  2.1m
(2003) to  3.3m. Following the recognition
of a further exceptional profit of  1.0m
from the Dr Falk Pharma deal and of
the  0.7m (before costs of  0.3m)
received thus far from the successful
arbitration against Dimethaid, the Group
recorded a loss of  1.8m before taxation
(2003: profit before taxation of  1.3m).
Although 2004 was, at times, a frustrating
year for the Group, this should not mask
the considerable strategic and product
development successes achieved.
Strategic developments
Medical Diagnostics
2004 was a landmark year for the Medical
Diagnostics business with our new
diagnostics product in2it  A1c filed with,
and subsequently cleared for sale by,
the FDA. With several diagnostic products
developed and approved, and with the US
point of care  market better understood,
we had the experience to implement a
new commercialisation strategy. This
strategy was implemented as a result
of our experience in selling Glycosal
 
through two global distributors, which as
well as losing a significant amount of the
margin to these distributors, emphasised
how international sales through such a
network can, at times, be uncontrollable
and unpredictable, particularly with
extended supply chains and complex
sub-distribution networks.
This new strategy has led us to set up our
own sales and marketing organisation in
the US, and to appoint local distributors
on a regional or country basis for the rest
of the world. This is a bold move for
Provalis, but is one that we are confident
will lead to more control of the sales
process, better margins for the Group and
a smoother supply chain that will assist
both internal and external sales forecasting,
as well as ensuring that we understand
and meet customers' needs by being
in closer contact with the end user -
the physician, nurse or patient.
In addition, this approach to selling will
provide Provalis with the opportunity to
establish its own diagnostics brand in
the US and other markets, and provide
the platform from which to introduce
future tests, without the complication
of these tests having to compete for
priority with any already sold by a third
party distributor.
We will operate in the US through
Provalis Diagnostics (U.S.A.) Ltd, which
has its headquarters in Orange County,
Florida. We have appointed Bert Valada
as Vice President and General Manager
of the US business. Bert, a US national
with extensive experience in the sales and
marketing of diagnostic products in the
US market with companies such as
Abbott and Behring, has already recruited
three Vice Presidents of Sales to manage
the West Coast, Mid West and East Coast
regions. Collectively, our sales team has
over 100 years of diagnostics sales
experience in the US market, and is now
building the network of national sub
distributors ready for the launch of in2it 
in the autumn of this year.
The establishment of our sales organisation
in the US will obviously lead to increased
costs, principally for salaries, advertising,
promotion and training. We anticipate
that this will add  1.1m to our cost base
in the first year, rising to  2.2m in the
second. In return, we will receive a greatly
increased margin and, we believe,
significantly higher returns than those
we would have received had we sold
in2it  through one or two global
distributors, which was our previous
method of operation. We believe this
will generate significantly increased
sales and profits for our Medical
Diagnostics business.
Pharmaceuticals
Our strategy for the prescription
Pharmaceuticals business remains
the licensing-in, or acquisition, of new
products and the expansion of the
business' operation into new markets.
Our short term goal is the generation of
profits to replace those from Provalis'
sale of the Dr Falk Pharma range,
which Provalis will stop selling on
31 December 2004. We continue to
make progress with all of these aims.
During the year, we secured the rights to
sell Erdotin , one of the latest generation of
mucolytic agents with a wide application in
a number of respiratory diseases, in the UK
and Ireland. This product has the potential,
in time, to replace the profits previously
achieved on sales of the Dr Falk products.
In keeping with our stated strategy, Provalis
has also been granted the option to acquire
the product after it has been on the market
for three years.
THE HIGHLIGHT OF 2004 HAS BEEN THE COMPLETION OF IN2IT  A1C
AND ITS CLEARANCE FOR US SALE AND GRANT OF CLIA WAIVER,
BOTH RECEIVED IN AUGUST.
Frank Harding, Chairman Diclomax
 
, Solvazinc
 
and certain
products in the Dr Falk Pharma range
were launched into Ireland for the
first time. At the same time we have
begun to build a relationship with Pfizer,
who have used our Irish sales force to
help promote their opthalmic product
range. This relationship is expected to
continue through the next year. 
We continue to have discussions with
a number of companies concerning
additional products, some of which
are at an advanced stage, and this will
remain a key focus of the year ahead.
Cash
Tight cash management has been
maintained throughout the year, with a low
cash burn of  4.8m, inclusive of the  4.6m
that was paid to Parke Davis in respect of
Diclomax
 
. During the year we received
a further  1.5m from Dr Falk Pharma
following the agreed early termination
of the distribution agreement with them,
and  0.6m (before costs of  0.3m) of the
 1.6m awarded against Dimethaid in the
successful arbitration claim Provalis
commenced for their wrongful termination
of the Pennsaid
 
distribution agreement,
with a further  0.1m recovered since
the year end.
Provalis ended the year with  1.8m in
cash and deposits, with a  3.0m revolving
bank facility available and a further  0.6m
of the grant from the Welsh Assembly
to be drawn down over the next two
years, conditional upon further capital
expenditure and job creation. This will be
supplemented by the receipt of the final
payment from Dr Falk in January 2005,
which is expected to be the full  2.0m.
In addition, the final payment for
Diclomax
 
will be made to Parke Davis
in November 2004, which will free up cash
to be used in the development of our
two businesses.
We keep our working and investment
capital under constant review. Having
now seen the initial market feedback for
in2it  exceeding our expectations, we are
undertaking a placing to raise  2.6m,
before expenses of  0.1m, during
September 2004. This, together with
our cash balance and bank facility,
will enable the Group to expand its
manufacturing supply base, accelerate
the development of additional tests for
the in2it  platform and ensure the
Company can meet the demand for,
and make the most of the opportunities
presented by, this product.
Looking forward
2005 will prove to be an exciting year,
with the launch of in2it  A1c and its first
sales through our own US sales force,
the introduction of Erdotin  in the UK
and the FDA filing of a second test for
high sensitivity CRP for use on the in2it 
diagnostic platform.
We remain committed to building a viable,
fast growing and diversified healthcare
group that will achieve profitability at
the earliest opportunity. We believe
that the step change in our diagnostics
sales potential in the US, coupled
with the sound profitable base of our
Pharmaceuticals business, will lead
to a revaluation of the Company by
the market.
Appreciation
Finally, I must thank all of our employees
for their dedication, determination and
sheer hard work this year. They have done
a great deal and have met important
milestones for the Group.
I and they are looking forward to
significant success for the Group and,
although much still needs to be done,
I believe we are now well placed to
achieve this.
Frank Harding
Chairman
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO BUILDING A VIABLE, FAST GROWING AND
DIVERSIFIED HEALTHCARE GROUP THAT WILL ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY
AT THE EARLIEST OPPORTUNITY. 
Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3