 PAGE  4
PuriCore continues to focus on growing its core businesses North American Food Safety and UK Endoscopy and has 
initiated marketing efforts in therapeutic Wound Care and early business development in Water Treatment, endeavouring 
to create a third core business for the Company's water-based clean technology. With this strategy, PuriCore as a whole 
and in each business is in a strong position, poised for growth and becoming cash flow positive.  
In 2009, PuriCore achieved record results for the year in both core businesses with 28% top-line growth (at constant 
currency) and total revenues of $40.0 million. The Company significantly improved operating loss compared with the 
prior year, but earnings were below Directors' expectations due to delays of expected Endoscopy sales into the next 
period and higher than anticipated field service costs in the Food Safety business during the year. The Company has 
thoroughly analysed the underlying factors, and the Directors are confident that these issues will be resolved in 2010. 
As in previous years, PuriCore continued to reduce operating expenses in 2009 in its legacy businesses (excluding the 
impact of Labcaire), achieving reductions of 14% over 2008. PuriCore successfully completed fundraisings during the 
year including an equity Placing that raised  2 million (gross) to fund the acquisition of Labcaire Systems Ltd. and the 
issuances of debt raising $2.7 million to fund leases in the Food Safety business. 
PuriCore's strategy to maximise recurring revenues (including equipment leases, managed services, maintenance 
contracts, services, and consumables) continues to be successful. In 2009, recurring revenues accounted for 
approximately 53% of total revenue, reflecting a 32% increase in recurring revenue over the 2008 figures and a  
60% increase over the 2007 figures. 
Whilst PuriCore made solid progress on several fronts in 2009, some operational challenges impacted the Company's 
gross margin and balance sheet. Year-end results were behind the Company's initial targets, resulting from both  
external pressures affecting PuriCore's sales traction and internal operational challenges in the Food Safety business. 
The Directors remain keenly focused on advancing the Company to being cash flow positive.
Core Business: Food Safety 
The Company continued to grow market acceptance with major customers, including two top-five US supermarket 
retailers and completed its first international installations. The Company increased revenues in the Food Safety business 
19%, totalling $23.1 million with record shipments of approximately 1,250 new Systems. Many of these Systems were a 
result of the major contracts from top-five retailers: a second major contract with Safeway for installations throughout  
all of its stores in the US and Canada and an additional contract with another top-five retailer. In Q4 2009, PuriCore 
received an additional $4.7 million in contract awards, including another top-10 US retailer and another leading  
regional supermarket chain.
As at 31 December 2009, approximately 13% of the target market used Sterilox. As the standard practice today is  
the use of water only to rinse fresh produce, the Directors believe PuriCore to be the leading fresh produce sanitiser for 
supermarket retailers in the US. Efforts continue to increase the Company's marketshare and installed base by targeting 
other leading North American national and regional chains and other stores within current customer brand networks as 
well as the opportunity to place a second Sterilox System in approximately half of the current installed base for 
additional applications such as floral and seafood. Looking ahead, the Company has further sales opportunities in the 
foodservice industry and in the broader agricultural and food processing markets as well as in other international regions 
that would benefit from the use of Sterilox Solutions for crisping and misting of fresh produce.
Core Business: uK Endoscopy
The acquisition of Labcaire Systems in August represents a significant business development achievement for PuriCore.  
The Company is now a leading UK provider of endoscopy disinfection equipment and services, with a significant 
increase in revenue, marketshare, and breadth of products and services.
For the second year in a row, PuriCore achieved growth in this business of more than 40%. 2009 revenues were up  
41% to $16.5 million (including Labcaire revenues as at August 2009), despite a clearly challenging economic environment 
and NHS budgetary pressures. The Company continues to focus on increasing recurring revenues, reporting a 32% 
increase in leases, maintenance contracts, services, consumables, and its new Endoscopy on Demand managed service.
The newly broadened portfolio including multiple automated endoscope reprocessors (AERs), disinfectant chemistries, 
drying cabinets, and consumables offers the full range of products and services required by endoscopy units in UK 
NHS hospitals, private hospitals, and primary care networks. Now approximately 350 NHS and private hospitals with 
endoscopy departments use PuriCore Endoscopy equipment including more than 900 AERs. The acquisition also 
expands PuriCore's international market opportunities for its portfolio.
Chairman & CEO Report PAGE  5
new Market: Wound Care
Another medical market with significant opportunity for the Company is Wound Care. By mimicking the human body's 
own immune response to infectious pathogens, the Directors believe that PuriCore's technology has substantial 
commercial potential in therapeutic healthcare applications, including the treatment of chronic and acute wounds.
PuriCore initiated commercialisation of the Vashe Wound Therapy platform in 2009, focusing on targeting key accounts, 
completing additional clinical research, and gaining favour with key opinion leaders. The early results were $0.5 million  
in revenues for the year, including sales to dental practitioners, and more than 160,000 successful Vashe treatments to 
date. In March 2010, the Company received regulatory clearances for an antimicrobial preservative claim for Vashe 
Wound Therapy. In April 2010, PuriCore received an additional regulatory clearance for over-the-counter marketing.  
This clearance, combined with extended shelf-life clearances, allows PuriCore diverse packaging options including 
bottled Vashe Wound Therapy and market expansion into the over-the-counter consumer market.
Outlook
PuriCore has a strong pipeline and anticipated order flow in both core markets.  
As the Company starts 2010, PuriCore has sales opportunities with Food Safety 
customers in negotiations, trials, or discussions representing an additional 40%  
of the US and Canadian Food Safety market, including several additional top-10 
retailers. The order book of PuriCore Endoscopy for the integrated Sterilox and 
Labcaire business includes sales opportunities for the now expanded product 
portfolio and the new Endoscopy on Demand managed service.
At the date of approval of the financial statements, PuriCore is in the advanced stages 
of finalising the issue of Convertible Loan Notes and has received commitments, 
subject to obtaining shareholder approval, for  8.0 million.
Looking ahead, PuriCore remains keenly focused on continuing to increase 
revenues, improve gross margins, and leverage operating expenses in the  
core businesses whilst developing a third business franchise for the Company's 
water-based clean technology. In 2010, the Company anticipates being cash flow 
positive in PuriCore's UK Endoscopy business and expects continued significant 
progress in the Food Safety business in both the US and Canada. PuriCore will 
continue to focus on growth in its two core businesses, North American Food 
Safety and UK Endoscopy, and further establish its Wound Care market presence. 
PuriCore expects further increases in gross margins through continued  
leveraging of the fixed costs across the Company, including the field service 
departments in both the US and the UK. Anticipated sales growth and improving 
gross margins, achieved in conjunction with continued cost-control, should  
enable PuriCore to achieve operational leverage of the business model thereby 
reducing net cash consumption.
PuriCore has an established track record of driving top-line growth whist reducing 
costs. The Directors recognise and are fully focused on continuing this trend line 
and moving the Company towards being cash flow positive, capitalizing on the 
Company's core technology, and seeking to maximise shareholder value.
Our Core Vision 
To be a global leader in advancing 
human health through the control of 
infectious pathogens.
Our Core Purpose 
To generate life science solutions  
for a safer, healthier world.
PuriCore Investment Thesis 
  There is a critical need for safe, 
effective, natural solutions to 
control the spread of infectious 
pathogens.
  Our technology is scientifically 
proven and intellectually protected.
  We already have significant share 
and leadership in core markets.
  We have a proven business model 
with strong year-on-year revenue 
and margin growth.
Christopher P.J. Wightman
Chairman
27 May 2010
Gregory T. Bosch
Chief Executive Officer