 2
Chairman's Report
In 2010, PuriCore made significant advancements in all three business units as well as in its core platform technology. 
The Directors believe that the sale of the Endoscopy division will enable the Company to generate the best returns from 
the enormous potential applications for the Company's intellectual property. With a broad technology platform, the 
challenge is to retain the best combination of cash generation and growth, whilst recognising that market penetration 
might require combinations with other products and technologies. The key to the Company's long-term success is in the 
selection of opportunities with the right attributes of growth, cash generation, and market capture.
The Directors strategically reviewed the business as a whole and concluded that PuriCore's future prospects would be 
enhanced by focusing on the core North American Supermarket Retail business, the emerging Wound Care market, and 
through research into applications with significant potential in Agriculture. Each of these opportunities more fully leverages 
the Company's core platform technology.
PuriCore's Endoscopy division is expected to be sold with the transaction anticipated to close in the second quarter 
pending shareholder approval. For the financial year ended 31 December 2010, this entity contributed revenue of  
$25.1 million and a loss before tax of $0.2 million to PuriCore's financial performance.
2010 Company Report
The sale of PuriCore International Limited (comprising the Endoscopy and Laboratory Clean Air businesses) is pending 
contract negotiations, due diligence, and shareholder approval. The following financial highlights relate to the full 
Group (continuing and discontinuing operations) for 2010 unless otherwise noted.
Revenues for PuriCore as a whole for the full year of $40.5 million represented a slight increase compared with the prior 
year (2009: $40.0 million). Whilst overall 2010 revenue was broadly flat over 2009, this performance masks some 
significant progress across the Company's business portfolio. Most notably, gross profit margin for the 12 months ended 
31 December 2010 increased significantly over the previous year to 33.6% (2009: 25.2%), driven by a continued 
improvement in performance of the Food Safety System, a reduction in direct costs, and continued leverage of the 
Company's field service operations in both the Food Safety and Endoscopy divisions. Driven by margin improvement and 
operating expense leverage, the Company's operating loss of $8.2 million exceeded management expectations (2009: 
$10.5 million).
During the year, PuriCore successfully put in place key financing arrangements, including the issue of  8 million (gross) 
in convertible loan notes in June as well as a total of $2.8 million comprising $1.8 million in April and an additional 
$1.0 million in December for use in 2011 with Republic Bank to finance Food Safety System installations. Cash at 
period end was $5.2 million (including restricted cash of $1.2 million).  
Supermarket Retail
In the North American Supermarket Retail core business, revenues were affected by the significant economic downturn 
in this sector in the US in 2008 and 2009 as well as by a change in the year to the mix between lease and capital 
sales. Despite this, PuriCore won several major accounts during the year, thereby significantly increasing the Company's 
market share, and the division's gross margins improved significantly due to improvements in service quality and product 
reliability. For the full year 2010, sales were $14.9 million (2009: $23.1 million), including Systems for the number-two 
US, two additional top-10 US, and the number-one Canadian supermarket retailers. 
With the addition of 593 Sterilox Systems in 2010, PuriCore's installed base now surpasses 4,200 Systems for retail 
outlets of 60 leading US and Canadian supermarket chains. The total number of outlets for these chain customers 
represents more than a third of the target market of 28,000 stores. The Company also has sales opportunities with 
additional chains in various stages of negotiations, trials, or discussions, representing another 41% of the market. During 
the year, PuriCore successfully launched the next-generation Sterilox Food Safety System, which provides significant 
improvements in service reliability and margin improvement, as well as the new FloraFresh System based upon a new 
chemical derivation of the core technology more suited to fresh cut floral and living plants. The FloraFresh System 
addresses the need of existing customers for a second PuriCore System in their stores, with the potential for expansion 
beyond the food retail market. Following a successful trial in 2010, PuriCore received an order for 100 FloraFresh 
Systems from one of the top-five US supermarket retailers for this second PuriCore System in their stores in January 
2011. 
puricore.indb   2 5/5/11   15:15:28 3
Wound Care Market
In the emerging Wound Care business (inclusive of Dental), full-year sales were $408K, a decrease of 10.5% over 
the previous year's sales of $456K. Whilst the rate of market adoption of Vashe Wound Therapy increased during the 
year, total sales decreased due to softening Dental orders. With the additional US FDA 510(k) regulatory clearances 
for extended shelf-life, an antimicrobial preservative claim, and over-the-counter (consumer) claims, PuriCore initiated 
a strategy to provide the market with new packaging for this product. As an initial offering, PuriCore launched in the 
fourth quarter its new bottled Vashe Wound Therapy, providing a convenient packaging option for wound care clinics 
and allowing for home use by patients. PuriCore also continues to expand its key opinion leader network, with an article 
published in the major peer-reviewed journal Advances in Skin & Wound Care and several medical conference posters on 
various Vashe clinical experiences, including its use in Haiti following the Company's donation of product at the time of 
the earthquake in January. 
New Markets: Agriculture
The Directors are confident of PuriCore's ability to expand into new markets with its core technology. Most promising is the 
expanded use of the Company's new product formulation for floral products in other agricultural applications. Preliminary 
research indicates that this successful application also represents a potentially significant breakthrough in the treatment 
of plant pathogens for the wider agricultural industry. Additional research is underway to identify the significance of this 
initial research.
Pending Litigation
In January 2011, PuriCore served a Particulars of Claim against Misonix, Inc., the seller of the Labcaire business, seeking 
damages in excess of  2.1 million for breaches of warranty under the Sale and Purchase Agreement in connection with 
PuriCore's acquisition of Labcaire in August 2009. Whilst the Company remains pleased with the Labcaire acquisition 
and its integration into PuriCore, it is confident of the merits of its case and will vigorously pursue the matter.
Outlook
With the Company focused on its core water-based, clean technology products, PuriCore has a strong pipeline and 
anticipated order flow for its products targeting the North American Retail Supermarket sector, and the Directors are 
confident of continued growth of its products in the Wound Care market and see significant potential in the use of the 
Company's core technology in Agriculture.
In the Supermarket Retail market in 2011, the Company expects to install a multiple of the number of Sterilox Systems 
sold in 2010. With a customer base representing more than a third of all targeted retail stores in North America, and 
combined with those in trials and discussions representing a full three-quarters of the target market, the Directors  
are confident that this division will show robust growth in 2011 and beyond. The successful introduction of the  
FloraFresh System at one of the top-five US supermarket chains increases the number of potential installations at each 
customer store. 
The introduction of bottled Vashe Wound Therapy with a shelf life of 12 months is a business-changing event. Whilst 
belief in the efficacy of this product continues to grow, a bottled version has been needed to move the business from 
concept to widespread adoption. The Company will focus more attention and resources on this very significant opportunity 
during the coming quarters. 
Looking ahead, PuriCore remains keenly focused on continuing to increase revenues, improve gross margins, and leverage 
operating expenses. PuriCore expects further increases in gross margins through continued leveraging of the fixed costs 
across the Company, including the field service department in the US. PuriCore owns a unique platform technology with 
applications across a diverse array of markets and applications. The challenge that the Company faces is to maximise the 
long-term value of the technology for shareholders whilst also maximising short-term profits and cash flow. As PuriCore 
develops markets and applications, the Directors will continue to evaluate these opprotunities on the basis of their long-
term potential as well as their short-term cash generation.  
Christopher P .J. Wightman 
Executive Chairman
28 April 2011
puricore.indb   3 5/5/11   15:15:28