 I am very pleased to be able to report to shareholders upon an
exciting year of progress for your company. During this period
we have made some remarkable breakthroughs in the field of
biofuels, we have moved closer to the roll-out of commercial
fire suppression products and we are in the process of
negotiating a key decontamination contract. We have identified
numerous other prospective commercial applications for the
PDX technology during the course of the year and enter the
2008 financial year with tremendous optimism. We have
achieved a great deal in a very short space of time since
launching our first commercial product in 2005 and while
progress to deliver returns has at times been frustratingly slow,
especially in Food and Brewing, we remain extremely confident
of our future success.
Results
Turnover for the year to 30 September 2007 doubled to
 3.1 million (2006:  1.5 million). In both years substantially all
the turnover arose from sales of process equipment into the
food and brewing industries. A significantly larger proportion
(35%, 2006: 21%) of the turnover came from equipment
utilizing the PDX technology in 2007.
During the year we continued to invest heavily in both research
and development, and sales and marketing. The major part of
our expenditure in research and development has been in our
work on bioethanol. The majority of the growth in our sales and
marketing expenditure has been in establishing our distribution
capabilities for food processing equipment. We have also
implemented FRS 20 Share-Based Payment  which has resulted
in an expense of  0.5 million, the result for 2006 has been
restated to include an expense of  0.3 million.
Losses attributable to ordinary shareholders increased to
 6.5 million (2006:  4.0 million) with the loss per share of
11.80p (2006: loss of 7.93p). The Board is not recommending
a dividend at this stage in the Company's development.
At 30 September 2007 net funds (cash and short term
investments net of finance leases and loans) stood at
 7.4 million (2006:  4.9 million). During the year net cash
outflow before management of liquid resources and financing
increased to  5.4 million (2006:  3.5 million).
We raised  7.6 million net of expenses in February 2007
following the issue of 6,955,000 new ordinary shares at
115p. This fundraising has enabled us to accelerate our
bioethanol development work. As a result of this fundraising
we are in a good financial position to deliver our current
business plan.
Shareholders' funds at the year end which reflect the fundraising,
offset by the increased loss for the year, were  10.2 million
(2006:  8.3 million).
Board and Management
We have had a number of changes to the membership of the
Board of Directors during the year. In March Rooney Anand
resigned from the Board and in May 2007 Ian Smith joined us
as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, taking over
from Gary Pyle, who had resigned as an executive but agreed
to continue on the board as a non-executive director. Following
his resignation as Chief Financial Officer Gary served as the
Chairman of the Audit Committee until October 2007.
In October, we were very pleased to announce that Stuart Evans
had joined the Board as a non-executive director and had
accepted the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee. Stuart
brings a wealth of relevant experience from his background in
growing technologically innovative businesses from start-up,
both in the United Kingdom and the US, and from his track
record in consulting, sales and executive management.
In addition, I am delighted to announce the appointment today
of Michael D. Ryan to the Board as a non-executive director.
4
PURSUIT DYNAMICS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
PURSUIT DYNAMICS PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
76082 PRE  18/1/08  16:10  Page 4 Mike is Executive Vice President, Government Relations, for
Rolls-Royce North America Inc., based in Washington, where
he has responsibility for providing customer executive services
for all Rolls-Royce military and civil programs in North America.
Immediately prior to joining Rolls-Royce in 1998, Mike had
served as a career officer in the US Marine Corps, his final
appointment being that of Major General commanding the
2nd Marine Aircraft Wing. Mike's experience and contacts on
Capitol Hill and throughout many relevant industries will be an
invaluable resource to the Company as it develops in the US.
Strategy
Our strategic approach can be summed up in four words;
Identify, Prove, Develop, Commercialise.
With the PDX technology proving to be a genuine platform
technology, with applications across a wide range of industries
and a number of differing duties, it is important that we avoid
the temptation to try and prosecute every potential application.
Instead we focus on those where the time to revenue, the
ultimate market size and the cost to our Company are optimised
in order to achieve commercialisation. We must also remain
mindful of the defensibility of our IP , the speed of development
of the competing technologies, our eventual route to market
and whether we should license an application of the PDX or sell
directly to the end user.
Our skills in prioritising and prosecuting these applications is, and
will continue to be, the key to our future success. Until last year
we had been focused on four major application areas: food,
brewing, fire and decontamination and rigorously sticking to
these areas has allowed us to identify numerous further
applications without over extending ourselves.
In short, we seek to get the PDX into service in as short a time
as possible, into as large a market as possible, where we will
have a clear commercial and technical advantage and where we
will not have to compromise our IP in order to achieve success.
Understanding and managing these risks and opportunities, and
prioritizing our resources, is every bit as important to our success
as developing the technical aspects of the PDX.
Outlook
Much has been written about the global push for the
development of productive capacity in biofuels, particularly
in the US, driven as much by a desire for domestic energy
independence as for their green or carbon-neutral credentials.
The US Government's stance, which it supports through
subsidies, has had the effect of a large number of plants
being built, with many more in construction or in planning.
The resulting surge in demand for cereals has dramatically
reduced grain stocks and pushed prices sharply higher.
We believe that our bioethanol reactor system represents a huge
technical advance for the bioethanol industry. We expect that
our reactor system will be capable of improving the overall
recovery efficiency of the process, improving ethanol yields
dramatically by up to 17%. For an industry that is planning to
expand production in the US alone to 15 billion gallons per
annum by 2011, from a planned 9.3 billion gallons in 2008,
our PDX technology could theoretically provide an increase in
production of upwards of 2.5 billion gallons of bioethanol or,
alternatively, a commensurate reduction in the industry's grain
requirements. Either way, the financial implications/benefits for
the industry will be material.
If confirmed, this will represent a step-change in the economics
of the ethanol production process. However, we have gone
further than this and are now looking at our technology's impact
on the challenge of cellulosic ethanol production, regarded as
the biofuel industry's holy grail . We believe that we are well
on our way to successfully achieving a low cost, continuous
ligno-cellulosic ethanol process which could pave the way to
the production of low-cost liquid fuel from waste plant matter.
5
PURSUIT DYNAMICS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
76082 PRE  18/1/08  16:10  Page 5 I have spent some time here describing our progress in this
area not just because I believe that we are on the threshold
of a remarkable breakthrough, which we expect will prove
extremely profitable for your company for many years to come,
but also to illustrate the successful outcome of a process that
happens continuously in Pursuit. The way in which new
applications for our core technologies surface demonstrates
both the inherent strength of the PDX technology and
our innovative capabilities. As an example, our bioethanol
programme started as a direct result of our work in the food
and brewing industries. Pursuit Processing Equipment has
played an important role in providing the Company with the
knowledge and integration skills that have been essential in
helping us progress the commercialisation and roll-out of
our technology applications.
As I have described above, we are very encouraged by
our progress in bioethanol and believe that, if we maintain
our current rate of progress, we will see the beginnings of
a significant revenue stream in the 2008 financial year.
In fire suppression, our global licensee Tyco Fire and Building
Products (Tyco ) continues to make good progress towards
releasing a fire suppression system including our FireMist
 
technology and we anticipate the start of a royalty stream
in the 2008 financial year.
Our decontamination business is still at an early stage and we
would expect a modest revenue stream combined with continued
validation of our Basilisk technology during financial year 2008.
We expect to see our food and brewing business continue
to grow its revenues in 2008 although the rate of growth
may be slower than previously anticipated in the market.
It is in the nature of a company developing innovative
technologies that different applications mature at different
speeds. The speed of these developments is very much
dependent upon a number of factors including the ease with
which technical obstacles can be overcome, the regulatory
environment, market fragmentation and also wider macro
economic issues. It has been an exciting year for the Company
and we believe, as we continue to identify, prove, develop
and commercialise applications for the PDX technology the
Company is at a truly exciting point in its life.
ANDREW QUINN
Chairman
6 December 2007
6
PURSUIT DYNAMICS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
PURSUIT DYNAMICS PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
76082 PRE  18/1/08  16:10  Page 6