 4 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
Chairman's statement
Directors' Report - Business Review
A tough year, given the 
economic, market and 
political uncertainty.
Mark Elliott Chairman
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to submit my first report as Chairman of QinetiQ, 
having assumed the role in March this year, following the retirement 
of Sir John Chisholm.
The last financial year was noteworthy for the Group given the 
changes in our markets on both sides of the Atlantic. Responding to 
fast-moving market developments has required a step change by the 
business and particularly by our people. I would like to pay testimony 
to our employees who have taken on the challenge to adapt quickly 
to the changing priorities of our customers.
With changes in the political landscape on both sides of the Atlantic, 
compounded by economic pressures, our business has experienced 
considerable uncertainty. On the back of political change, customers 
have delayed decision making as they review their budgets. As a 
consequence of these market changes, in November we alerted the 
market that the Group was unlikely to meet market expectations. 
The wider UK budget pressures and delays in contract awards 
resulted in lower utilisation of our teams in the last quarter. This 
was followed in January by confirmation that the delays in orders 
for survivability products and Unmanned Ground Vehicles within 
the QinetiQ North America (QNA) Technology Solutions Group would 
result in performance for our second half not exceeding that of the 
first half. This was disappointing and highlighted the need for the 
business to be more agile and to look to itself to reduce its cost base, 
to ensure that it remains competitive. 
The safety of our operations remains a priority. Following the tragic 
loss of Nimrod XV230 in 2006 and the subsequent publication of 
the Haddon-Cave Report in October 2009, we were determined 
to take on board any key findings which will further improve our 
ways of working. Subsequently in November 2009, the Board 
appointed Sir Robert Nelson QC to consider the findings and 
recommendations of the Haddon-Cave Report. Sir Robert concluded 
that substantial improvements have occurred in QinetiQ since 2004 
but recommended that further changes were implemented and that 
improvements which have been made to date, are consolidated. 
I am pleased to report that we are already well underway with 
implementing Sir Robert's recommendations and are in the 
process of recruiting a new Group Safety Director to the Executive 
Team. QinetiQ has a long established heritage and track record in 
airworthiness and safety. It is important that we ensure through 
our actions, processes, procedures and people that we are able 
to reinforce our credentials in this crucially important field.
In November, Leo Quinn joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer 
to lead the next stage of QinetiQ's development. Leo took over 
the reins from Graham Love who left the Group after eight years, 
having taken the organisation through privatisation. Leo joined the 
Group having led De La Rue plc, overseeing its transformation into 
a focused, market-leading security printer. Prior to that, Leo was 
responsible for a number of business turnarounds in both Europe 
and the US. Leo has drive and energy, and a passion for operational 
excellence and delivery. I am pleased to report that in the short time 
that he has been with the Group, he has already started the process 
of its transformation. The Board is fully supportive of the priorities 
set out by Leo Quinn in his Chief Executive Officer's report.
The results 
Group revenues were flat at  1,625.4m (2009:  1,617.3m), including 
a  43m benefit from the strengthening US dollar exchange rate. The 
overall organic decline in US revenues at constant currency was 4%, 
with the decline in higher margin product sales partially offset by 
growth in services. The UK businesses suffered from a reduction in 
the historic concentration of Ministry of Defence (MOD) order flow 
towards the year end, although this impact was partially masked at 
the revenue level by higher pass-through revenues, resulting in a 1% 
organic decline in EMEA revenues.
As a result of the reduction in higher contribution revenues, 
underlying operating profit* decreased to  120.3m (2009:  151.6m), 
resulting in an underlying margin* of 7.4% (2009: 9.4%). The EMEA 
underlying margin* decreased to 7.5% (2009: 10.0%) and the QNA 
underlying margin* fell to 8.5% (2009: 10.8%). Losses for the Ventures 
division reduced as a result of the partial disposal of Cody Gate 
Ventures in the prior year. Underlying profit before tax* was 
 85.7m (2009:  130.2m).
The Group incurred impairment charges on goodwill of  50.1m, 
intangible assets and investments of  14.6m and tangible assets 
of  24.0m. Other non-recurring items include a profit on business 
divestments of  5.1m (2009:  13.0m) and a charge for reorganising 
the EMEA business, announced in May 2009, of  42.1m. The resulting 
statutory loss before tax was  66.1m (2009: profit of  114.0m).
The Group achieved a strong underlying cash conversion* of 145% 
(2009: 107%) due to a continued focus on cash generation. Cash flow 
from operations increased to  204.6m (2009:  202.2m), before the 
costs of the EMEA reorganisation announced in May 2009. 4 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
Net debt, as at 31 March 2010, was  457.4m (31 March 2009: 
 537.9m), resulting from strong cash flow from operations and 
the beneficial translation impact of the US dollar exchange rate, 
as the majority of the Group's debt is drawn in US dollars. The 
Group's gearing ratio  at 31 March 2010 was 2.5x  (31 March 
2009: 2.2x ), well inside the covenant level of 3.5x .
Full year underlying earnings per share* were 11.1p (2009: 15.9p).
The Board is confident that the programme announced on 27 May 
will restore the Group to strength over the next 24 months, 
including the rapid pay-down to a target gearing ratio of below 
2x . For this reason, the Board is recommending that no payment 
be made either of a final dividend for the year just ended or of an 
interim dividend for the current year. It is the Board's expectation 
that the Group will pay a final dividend with respect to the 
financial year ending 31 March 2011.
The Board
There have been a number of changes to the Board during 
the year.
In May 2009, Sir John Chisholm announced his intention to retire 
from the Board as Chairman. Some 19 years ago Sir John took 
on the challenge of creating a successful commercial enterprise 
out of the research laboratories of the Ministry of Defence. 
This culminated in the Company's listing on the London Stock 
Exchange in February 2006. His personal commitment, integrity 
and phenomenal energy have made QinetiQ the successful 
organisation it is today and, on behalf of the Board, I thank him 
for his enormous contribution. I am sure everyone at QinetiQ 
wishes Sir John all the very best for his retirement.
In August last year, David H Langstaff joined the Board as a 
Non-executive Director, bringing an in-depth understanding 
of the North American security market. Non-executive Director 
Dr Peter Fellner stepped down from the Board at the close of the 
Group's AGM on 4 August 2009. Graham Love left the Company 
and Leo Quinn joined the Board in the role of Chief Executive 
Officer in November. Just after the year end, I was pleased to 
announce the appointment of Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
KCB CBE MA as an Independent Non-executive Director. 
Sir James brings extensive experience of the operational 
challenges of the defence sector.
People
QinetiQ is a unique organisation built on the technical knowledge, 
expertise and integrity of its people. They are involved in solving 
some of society's most complex problems. I believe our teams 
undertake their roles with integrity and demonstrate commitment 
to our customers. During the second half of the year our employees 
adapted to significant change which will modernise and reposition 
the business for the future, ensuring we remain competitive in the 
market. This required flexibility from our people and I thank them 
for their ongoing commitment and support.
Outlook
In both the US and the UK, the defence markets remain challenging 
as a result of the economic environment. Additionally in the UK, the 
impending Strategic Defence and Security Review adds uncertainty 
to forecasts for defence spending. The Board has concluded its 
review of operations and reset the priorities of the Group. The new 
management is taking action over the next 24 months to reduce 
costs, improve productivity and drive cash generation, both to 
reduce the Group's net debt rapidly, and to refocus and reposition its 
businesses over the medium term for a return to profitable growth.
In the current financial year, the performance of QinetiQ's service 
businesses is likely to remain steady overall. The product businesses, 
whose performance is by nature more variable, should benefit from 
the release of some orders in the US delayed from prior period, 
although this will be partially offset by the weaker UK environment. 
The Board believes it will meet its expectations for the current year.
Mark Elliott Chairman
2 June 2010
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 98.
 Underlying financial measures are presented, as the Board believes these provide 
a better representation of the Group's long-term performance trend.
  The gearing ratio is net debt to adjusted EBITDA and the definition is in the 
glossary on page 98. 