 Quadnetics Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.quadnetics.com 
Stock code: QDG
04
c hairman' s Statement
David Coghlan
Introduction
As previously announced, Quadnetics has 
changed its year end from 31 May to  
30 November, and the latest financial year 
therefore covers the 18 months ended  
30 November 2010. The accompanying 
financial statements provide audited figures  
for the full 18 month period, as well as 
unaudited figures for the 12 months ended  
30 November 2010. Comparable unaudited 
figures are provided for the 12 months ended 
30 November 2009. Unless otherwise stated, 
this narrative report refers to figures for the  
12 months to 30 November 2010, comparing 
them with those for the same period in 2009.
Quadnetics demonstrated solid progress on 
most fronts during 2009/10. Results improved 
markedly and, as importantly, there are clear 
signs that the Group is benefitting from the 
major organisation changes implemented 
across the period.
results
In the 12 months to 30 November 2010, 
Quadnetics recorded underlying profit (that is, 
profit before tax, exceptional costs and 
share-based payment costs) up 77% to  
 2.6 million (2009:  1.5 million), on revenue of  
 61.3 million (2009:  64.7 million). Underlying 
operating margin was 4.2% (2009: 2.0%). This 
major improvement in operating margin 
reflects primarily the initial benefits from 
implementation of the Group restructuring 
initiated last year, and a significant turnaround 
within the defence activities of the Synectics 
Mobile Systems division. Further details on 
operating performance are set out in the 
Business Review on pages 8 to 23. 
Group profit before tax was  1.4 million  
(2009: loss  (0.2) million), after charging  
final exceptional costs of  1.1 million  
(2009:  1.6 million) arising from the 
restructuring, and share-based payment  
costs of  0.2 million (2009:  0.1 million). 
Underlying earnings per share increased by 
92% to 12.5p (2009: 6.5p).
Quadnetics' balance sheet remains ungeared, 
with net cash at 30 November 2010 of  
 3.3 million (2009:  3.4 million). Free cash flow, 
that is cash generated from operations less 
capital expenditure, was  2.1 million  
(2009:  1.0 million outflow), before cash 
payments in respect of exceptional restructuring 
charges of  1.5 million (2009:  1.1 million). 
For the 18 month period ended 30 November 
2010 profit before tax was  1.2 million  
(12 months ended 31 May 2009:  0.5 million) 
and basic earnings per share were 5.5p  
(12 months ended 31 May 2009: 1.7p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 
4.5p (2009: 4.5p) payable on 9 May 2011 to 
shareholders on the register on 18 March 2011. 
If approved by shareholders, this would bring 
the total dividend for the final 12 months of the 
period to 7.0p (2009: 7.0p). 
research and Development
Group expenditure on technology development 
during the 12 month period totalled  1.4 million 
(2009:  1.6 million). Of this,  0.7 million was 
capitalised, and the remaining  0.7 million 
expensed to the profit and loss account.
The creation during the year of the Synectics 
Technology Centre as a separate development 
unit for the Group as a whole has allowed a 
more organised and scalable approach to 
development priorities. Clear benefits to 
schedule and cost adherence are already  
being achieved.
Three major new Synectics products were 
launched during the period:
 X COEX3000, a new, market-leading 
explosion-rated camera head for use in 
hazardous environments such as oil rigs;
 X Simplicity, a high-reliability, top-of-the-
range hybrid digital video recorder which 
will become a central component in 
Synectics' surveillance systems for multi-site 
applications; and
 X Chili, a suite of man-portable radio 
frequency surveillance systems for mobile 
defence applications.
People
During the year Russ Singleton, founder of 
Synectics and Chief Executive of Quadnetics 
from 2002 to 2008, left the Board to focus his 
entrepreneurial flair on a new venture. 
Quadnetics owes him a debt of gratitude for the 
critical role he played in building the Company. 
We miss his unique talents and insight, and wish 
him every success for the future.
 X Solid progress
 X Improved results
 X Improved order book Our Governance
Our Business 01-23  
Our Financials
05   InnO vatInG       InteGratInG       Pr OtectInG
integration and focus of our overall business, 
including management and administration, 
technology development and co-operation 
between divisions. A lot of good work has been 
done in the past 18 months in creating the 
current divisions and moving them collectively 
much more to a single company  culture. In 
addition to providing a more efficient and 
scalable organisation, this platform will also 
allow the Group to manage bolt-on acquisitions 
effectively, as and when we find the right 
opportunities in line with our strategy.
We believe that, Quadnetics can and will progress 
towards delivering consolidated underlying 
operating profit margins (after all R&D and central 
costs) in the range of 8-10%, within a reasonable 
time frame and given normal economic 
conditions. Of course, any action to improve the 
operating profit margin will only be taken if it is 
also consistent with Group's overriding financial 
objectives, the most important of which is 
sustainable growth in earnings per share.
Outlook
As the Group continues to emerge from the 
recent organisational changes, progress against 
our objectives in the current year is broadly  
on track.
The Group's order book at 30 November 2010 
was  27.3 million, up from  22.1 million a year 
earlier. The delivery timetable for these orders 
suggests a more even spread of work across this 
year, in contrast to last year when profits were 
heavily skewed to the first half. On the basis of 
the improved year end order book, and an 
encouraging pipeline of potential new business, 
the Board expects Quadnetics to make further 
good progress in the current financial year.
David c oghlan
Chairman
4 March 2011
Throughout the recent period of restructuring, 
Quadnetics' employees have shown time and 
again their commitment to meeting customer 
expectations, solving problems and simply 
getting things done. I would like to record the 
Board's sincere thanks to all of them.
Strategy and Financial Objectives
In our last interim report, I set out on behalf of 
the Board a summary of the Group's strategy 
and medium term operating profitability 
objectives. I propose now to repeat that 
summary in a slightly updated version for this 
full Annual Report.
Quadnetics' strategy is to invest to grow our 
technology base and market share in three security 
and surveillance end markets with complex or 
highly critical needs: critical infrastructure, mobile 
surveillance and oil & gas/marine. The specialist 
requirements of these market niches will enable  
us increasingly to exploit and expand the 
differentiation of our systems solutions from 
competitor product offerings developed for  
higher volume applications.
These three markets are regional or global in 
scope and are specifically addressed by our 
three Synectics divisions: Synectics Network 
Systems, Synectics Mobile Systems and 
Synectics Industrial Systems respectively. We 
believe that each of these divisions has good 
revenue growth opportunities and is capable of 
reaching and sustaining operating profit 
margins in the mid-to-high teens per cent 
(before R&D and Group central costs).
The Integration and Managed Services division 
is complementary to the three Synectics 
divisions though different in its scope and 
business characteristics. Its core skills are in 
security systems integration, project 
management and engineering services. It is 
people-intensive and operates in a UK national, 
or sometimes even local, competitive arena. Its 
primary target market is medium-to-large scale 
critical infrastructure security projects in the UK 
and, as such, we believe it can increasingly 
benefit from, and contribute to, the success of 
the Synectics divisions' solutions in that market. 
Given the high bought-in content of sales in 
this division, we believe a sustainable target 
operating profit margin is in the range of 6-8% 
(before Group central costs).
Each of our divisions has, and will continue to 
have, profitable sales outside the Group's core 
target markets. Currently these sales amount in 
total to around 15-20% of Group revenues, the 
majority in the Integrated and Managed 
Services division. Our expectation is that the 
proportion of such ancillary sales within the 
Group will reduce over time as growth efforts 
and investment are directed towards the higher 
margin target market niches.
Progress towards the Group's objectives should 
flow in part from continuing the closer 
Pictured: Synergy
TM
 Security Management Software Installation.
Delivering Security in Motion
Over 1 billion passenger miles 
protected each year