 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 12
Another year 
of good progress
In 2002 we made good progress towards our goal of being 
the first choice provider of motoring and vehicle solutions
for consumers and businesses. 
We have increased the proportion of profits derived from
more predictable revenue streams, which has improved the
quality of our earnings and supported the underlying profit
growth of the past two years. The lifetime revenue of new
contract wins in 2003 was  620 million and the total lifetime
value of our long term business grew to  2.83 billion in
2002 (2001 -  2.73 billion). 
2002 saw another milestone in our development as 
a unique support services company as we renamed the
company RAC plc to leverage the value of our strongest
brand. We continue to develop the Lex brand in its
business to business markets. 
We will maintain our growth by building on the strength 
of our brands, our service delivery and our unique motoring
and vehicle expertise. Excellent service delivery is all about
people, supported by systems and processes, such as 
the CLAS system in Lex Vehicle Leasing and the automatic
despatch system in RAC Operations, both of which were
completed in 2002 and are delivering service benefits. 
Our quality of service has been recognised once again 
with a series of industry awards and commendations 
for RAC Business Solutions, Lex Vehicle Leasing, RAC 
Auto Windscreens, RAC Software Solutions and Lex 
Auto Logistics.
Our results for 2002 demonstrate our continued progress,
with a 4% increase in revenue to  1,508 million, and 8%
growth in underlying profit to  70.2 million (2001 - 
 65.1 million). Earnings per share on this basis increased
by 5% to 43.9p (2001 - 41.9p). Profit before tax was 
 23.1 million (2001 -  62.3 million) with earnings per share
calculated in accordance with FRS 14 of 8.5p (2001 - 39.5p).
As a result of strong cashflow of  44.2 million, net debt
reduced to  155.3 million from  199.5 million at the end of
2001. The Board proposes a final dividend of 13.8p, which
makes the total dividend for the year 23.0 p, an increase of
5% on 2001. Our financial results are explained in full in the
Financial Review and in the accounts.
Operating highlights
RAC Consumer Services maintained the growth
momentum it has established over the past three years,
increasing profit to  45.2 million, which now represents
over half of our underlying PBIT .
In Consumer Services we are growing our customer 
base, increasing the range and quality of our offerings and
encouraging more members to buy multiple services from
us. We maintained the growth in our customer base in 2002
and now deliver roadside service to 6.5 million consumers
across RAC Consumer Services and RAC Business
Solutions. There is increasing customer loyalty in the
individual membership base, as evidenced by the growing
number (84%) who renewed their membership with RAC 
in 2002. 
In addition we achieved considerable growth in non-roadside
services such as financial, legal and travel services and
BSM. Revenue from these areas grew by 22%.
Our investment in customer relationship management
systems and infrastructure will enable us to understand
more of our customers' individual motoring needs and
provide tailored solutions from our expanding range of
Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive RAC plc Annual Report 2002 13
services. The systems are already delivering benefits
including higher quality information and more effective
direct marketing, and will be fully implemented in the
middle of the year. At present 7% of individual customers
buy more than one service; our goal is to increase this to
15% and the systems will support us in doing this. 
We also achieved growth in business services in 2002,
increasing revenue and the lifetime value of our long term
contracts and maintaining profit. This is despite the
termination of our contract to distribute DAF parts from
June 2003 and continuing problems in Lex Mechanical
Handling, where we are exploring approaches to create
value, for example, by reworking our relationship with lift
truck manufacturers. RAC Business Solutions, Lex Vehicle
Leasing, Lex Transfleet and Manufacturer Support Services
all contributed strong performances.
We aim to leverage our strengths by providing additional
services to existing customers and by using our unique
range of skills to supply tailored multi-service solutions 
for major customers. For example, we have won new
contracts with the Ministry of Defence, including the
renewal of our RAF White Fleet contract, and have
broadened the range of services we provide to Norwich
Union. These developments demonstrate our proven track
record of building long term partnerships with customers
such as these to add substantial value to their organisations. 
Pensions
Like many other UK employers, we reviewed our final
salary pension scheme in 2002 to assess the impact of the
decline in stock markets over the past three years, and the
increased cost of providing pension benefits. As a result of
this review we have taken the following actions, which have
been agreed in consultation with Pension Trustees, and,
where appropriate, unions, employee groups and legal 
and actuarial advisers:
- We are maintaining our final salary scheme for existing
and new employees, and extending it to younger
employees, who were previously unable to join due 
to a minimum entry age of 25. 
- We are increasing Company contributions to the 
scheme to reduce the deficit which has arisen as a 
result of falling stock markets. The deficit under FRS 17
stood at  129 million net of tax at 31 December 2002.
The Company will increase its cash contribution by 
 2.5 million in the second half of 2003 and by  5 million
a year thereafter.
- The cost of providing pension benefits for the future 
has increased significantly. This is primarily because
people are living longer, typically drawing a pension 
for twice as long as they did in the 1960s, which requires
a proportionate increase in funding. In addition, tax
changes and lower anticipated investment returns 
are also increasing costs. T o maintain the final salary
scheme, we will share the increase in costs with
employees, who will be offered the choice of reduced
future benefit levels or increased employee contribution
rates from 1 July 2003. 
These actions will secure the future of our pension scheme,
which provides a valuable benefit to all our people. The
changes also provide the flexibility for people to choose
their preferred level of pension benefit. They have been
welcomed by our main union, the Transport and General
Workers Union.
Sir Trevor Chinn Andrew Harrison RAC plc Annual Report 2002 14
Our people
As a service business, our people are at the heart of our
continued success and we are working hard to make RAC
plc one of the UK's best companies to work for. We believe
that by inspiring our people they will deliver inspirational
service to our customers, who will consequently stay with
us longer and buy more services, with the end result of
growing returns to shareholders. Providing a competitive
benefits package, including our final salary pension
scheme; setting out clear values to guide our decisions;
and investing in training and communication are important
elements of this. 
Employee satisfaction, development and retention are 
key measures of our success in motivating our people and
are monitored as closely as financial measures to keep the
business on track. Our businesses are led by a strong and
experienced team of leaders whose abilities are
demonstrated by the growth in employee satisfaction we
achieved in 2002 in addition to our financial and operating
progress. We thank all of our people for their hard work 
and commitment 
Our Board
Bill Cockburn, Michael Ost and Peter Hickson stood down
as non-executive directors in 2002 and we thank them for
their contribution over the past nine years. We welcome
Dianne Thompson and John Poulter, who joined the Board
as non-executive directors.
Alan Bowkett joined the Board on 2 September 2002 
but resigned in November. Peter Smith was appointed
Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2003 and will become 
non-executive Chairman on 1 May 2003, succeeding 
Sir Trevor Chinn who will retire at the end of April. 
Group Finance Director, Paul Hewitt, will leave the company
on 31 March 2003 to become Chief Financial Officer of the
Co-operative Group. We thank Paul for the significant
contribution he has made to the Group over the past four
years. We are recruiting for his successor and will make 
an announcement when an appointment is made. 
Outlook
The sustained growth and improved quality of earnings 
we have achieved over the past two years show the
benefits of our transformation as a unique support services
company. There is significant opportunity for continued
growth in both our consumer and business markets by
increasing the number of services we provide to our
customers. Our investments in systems should enhance
our growth potential; the benefits are already beginning 
to flow through in terms of service delivery, higher quality
information and improved sales targeting. 
In addition, our strong cash flow has further strengthened
our financial position. We expect our organic growth to
continue to drive improved performance in 2003. 
Sir Trevor Chinn Andrew Harrison
Chairman Chief Executive
Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive