 12 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive
Over the past few years RAC plc has been reshaped with 
a strategy to be the leading provider of motoring and vehicle
services to consumers and businesses. We are pleased to
report further good progress in 2003.
We have strong brands in RAC, Lex and BSM. Our strategy 
is to deliver growth by leveraging the strength of these brands
and our customer base, together with our unique range of
motoring and vehicle services. In this regard 2003 was a 
good year for us. In Consumer Services we successfully
implemented our new customer relationship management
system which will help us to provide more carefully targeted
services to our individual customers. In Business Services 
we won more large, long-term contracts.
Our success depends crucially on our colleagues and on 
the service they provide to our customers. In the past year we
were delighted to win a number of important awards as both
an employer and as a service provider, with RAC plc, Lex
Vehicle Leasing, Lex Commercials, RAC Business Solutions,
Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Transfleet all receiving recognition.
In 2003 total revenues increased by just 1% to  1,526 million
(2002 -  1,508 million), reflecting the impact of disposals.
Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and tax
grew by 24% to  86.7 million (2002 -  70.2 million). Earnings
per share on this basis increased by 24% to 54.4p (2002 -
43.9p). After exceptional items, primarily associated with our
withdrawal from the mechanical handling businesses, profit
before tax was  25.7 million (2002 -  23.1 million) and earnings
per share calculated in accordance with FRS 14 were 8.3p
(2002 - 8.5p).
The revenues from our continuing operations increased by 
6% to  1,469 million (2002 -  1,390 million) with profit before
goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and tax from these
businesses up by 15% to  87.0 million (2002 -  75.7 million).
The Group continued to generate cash, while at the same time
investing significantly in future growth. T otal net debt reduced
by  127.9 million from  282.2 million in 2002 to  154.3 million.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 14.6p, to bring the total
dividend for the year to 24.3p, an increase of 5.7% on 2002.
The growth in profit before interest, goodwill amortisation,
exceptional items and tax* from continuing operations is shown
in the table below; 
2003 2002 change
 m  m %
Consumer Services 51.3 43.2 19
Business Services 50.8 46.9 8
Other (5.7) (3.6) -
Total 96.4 86.5 11
*as per Note 1 to the accounts
The strong momentum in our Consumer businesses continued
in 2003, with revenue from continuing operations up 7%,
driving a 19% increase in profit. Roadside grew its customer
base and revenues, as it has done each year since it was
acquired in 1999. Pleasingly, we saw the benefits of innovation
come through in this business, with the new despatching
system installed in 2002 and the bespoke rapid deployment
trailers introduced in 2003, both contributing to the delivery 
of record service levels.
Andrew Harrison Peter Smith
A year of investment and growth RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 13
Beyond Roadside, we offer a growing range of motoring
services, including driving tuition, car insurance, glass
replacement, legal support and travel assistance. The
businesses providing these activities grew their revenues,
overall, by 5%. BSM and Legal Services both delivered strong
growth. Financial Services revenues grew from a small base,
but our ambitions are to increase the momentum in this
business still further with the benefit of our new systems 
and our customer base of over 3 million members. 
RAC Auto Windscreens had a challenging year in 2003 and,
despite a marginal increase in sales (0.9%) to  96.9 million,
profits were down 15%. We made significant changes to the
senior management team in the early part of the year. The new
team dealt well with a supplier recall later in the year, caused
by a faulty batch of adhesive, and approximately 9,000
windscreens were refitted, with a minimum of inconvenience
to customers. There are a number of business improvement
programmes underway, but it will take time for these to take
effect and trading remains challenging.
The successful installation of our customer relationship
management system in Consumer Services late in the year
was a major landmark for us. Although delayed, the switch 
to the new system, involving millions of customer records,
went smoothly. We are now better placed to understand our
customers' motoring needs and will be able to interact with
them more effectively. We are confident that this will encourage
our members to purchase more products from us.
Our Business Services operations also performed well in
2003, with revenues from continuing operations up by 6% 
and profits up by 8%. Lex Vehicle Leasing, our joint venture
with HBOS, had a record year; in November it passed the
milestone of having 100,000 vehicles on fleet, all through
organic growth. Then in December we announced a seven
year arrangement to take on 20,000 vehicles from Ford
Financial and to manage the UK contract hire business 
for Ford and its sister marques. Our deepening relationship
with Ford, where we already provide roadside assistance 
to customers buying new cars, reflects good progress in our
ambition to provide additional services to existing customers.
We also strengthened our relationship with the Ministry of
Defence, building on the successful White Fleet contract, and
we were delighted to be selected - in partnership with Amey -
as preferred bidder for the  500 million C Vehicles contract
which is expected to be awarded by October 2004, leading to
full service provision by April 2006. During the year we also took
on the management of the British Airways fleet of specialist
airside vehicles under a 10 year contract with lifetime revenues
of  230 million. The contract will be serviced by Lex Transfleet,
supported by Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Commercials.
Last year we highlighted our dissatisfaction with the returns
being achieved in our mechanical handling businesses, and
our determination to restore shareholder value was confirmed
with the sale, announced in April 2003, of Lex Harvey and Lex
Birchwood. In January 2004 we disposed of Lex Havelange,
our small Belgian subsidiary and we are in active discussions
with a number of interested parties concerning the disposal 
of Lex Manutention in France and Lex Komatsu South, our
remaining UK mechanical handling business. Our 2003 results
include appropriate exceptional charges and asset impairments.
Our people
RAC has been supporting motorists for over a century, and the
Group has developed a strong culture of service to its members
and customers, for whom we are  Always there'. Responsible
for the service are 12,000 colleagues, and we thank them for
the countless times when they have gone above and beyond
the call of duty to deliver great service to our customers.
We are working hard to make RAC plc an attractive place for
colleagues to develop their careers. We are committed to strong
values which guide our decision making and recruitment
processes. We encourage open communication and feedback
from all parts of the Group - in 2003 our colleagues were
engaged regularly in briefings from their business managing
directors and Executive Board members. Our 2003 colleague
satisfaction survey showed good progress with both an
increased response rate and a higher level of overall
satisfaction. Last year we highlighted the importance of
pensions. Our decision to keep open our defined benefit scheme
and extend its reach, was strongly supported by our colleagues
and their union, and represents a valuable benefit to them.
At Board level, we welcomed Richard Pennycook in August
and John Warren in September 2003. Richard joined as our
Group Finance Director and John as a non-executive director.
Policy
RAC has always been an important voice of the motorist. 
In conjunction with our partners in the RAC Foundation, we
engage at all levels of government and through the media to
promote the interests of motorists. Our most recent Report 
on Motoring, now in its sixteenth year, highlighted the very
significant cost of motoring with a quarter of average disposable
family income absorbed by the cost of car use and ownership.
Driving on the roads in Britain can be a miserable experience -
only one in four motorists claims to enjoy driving, and our legal
practice deals daily with the distress caused when our
members are involved in accidents with one of the one million
drivers who are not properly taxed and insured. RAC will
continue to put forward constructive and informed advice to
policy makers to help make motoring in Britain safer, quicker
and more enjoyable.
Outlook
RAC is a strong and unique motoring and vehicle services
company which has delivered substantial growth in revenues
and profits, together with strong cashflow.
We expect to see continuing growth in 2004, despite the
anticipated reduction in profits from our contracts with Paccar
which we have highlighted previously. Looking further ahead,
the strength of our brands, the breadth of our customer base
and the investment we have made in systems and
infrastructure will continue to offer significant growth
opportunities in both Consumer and Business Services.
Peter Smith Andrew Harrison
Chairman Chief Executive