 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman and 
Chief Executive's letter
Ours is a people business. 
Everything we do, everything we
achieve is down to the talent and
commitment of the people who 
work within the RDF Media Group 
David Frank
Chief Ex ecutive 13
With the backing of our shareholders 
and the outstanding quality of our staff,
we believe that RDF is capable of being
a major player in the evolving worldwide
market for visual content 
Richard Eyre
Non-Executive Chairman 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman and Chief Executive's letter
This has been a year of particular importance for RDF
Media Group. Only 12 months ago RDF was a private
company with two associates. Since then we have 
listed on the stock market and acquired four subsidiary
companies; we have offices in London, Bristol, Glasgow,
Cardiff, New Y ork and Los Angeles; we're making more
programmes for more broadcasters in more genres and
we're selling more programmes overseas to more buyers
in more countries. At the same time revenues, operating
profits and earnings per share have all increased.
Our sector is still in the process of major change. 
These changes translate into exciting opportunities 
for RDF. The new terms of trade with the terrestrial 
broadcasters (triggered by the Communications Act
2003) have given us greater control of the rights in 
the programmes we make. They've transformed the 
economics of independent television production and are
encouraging consolidation - a key factor in our decision
to obtain a stock market listing. In addition, technological
advances in relation to the delivery of audio-visual 
content on platforms other than standard TV , have
opened up whole new opportunities for us to exploit 
and relationships for us to build. 
As both a creator of content and an exploiter of content
rights RDF is well positioned to take advantage of this
'new world' for content. We're building a critical mass of
production capacity in the UK, have put in place a new
management team to drive forward our business in the
US and have established RDF as the leading independent
brand for the distribution of indie programming.
With the backing of our shareholders and the outstanding
quality of our staff, we believe that RDF is capable of
being a major player in the evolving worldwide market
for visual content.
Business review
RDF is engaged in the creation and production of high
quality television programmes with a commercial value
beyond that of the first broadcast. RDF Rights actively
markets these programmes, and those of other producers,
in the international and consumer products markets.
During the year group turnover associated with these
activities rose by 23% to  59.5m (2005:  48.2m) and
profit before tax (adjusted for flotation costs and goodwill
amortisation) rose by 28% to  5.4m (2005:  4.2m).
Both the content creation and the rights exploitation
businesses have registered impressive growth; the former
boosted by the acquisitions we completed during the
year and the latter through being in business with more
indie and other producers than ever.
We have acquired four content businesses since our 
flotation - in chronological order - T ouchpaper T elevision
(drama), IWC Media (factual/factual entertainment/drama),
Radar (entertainment) and Presentable (specialist 
entertainment). We warmly welcome the management
teams and employees of these companies to the group.
These companies all share a common feature which drives
our content acquisition strategy - they're home to highly
creative individuals who understand our business model
and who are excited by the opportunities generated by
being part of a larger group.
RDF Rights, our distribution division, is the fastest growing
part of the group with revenues up by 43%. We've been
working hard to grasp the opportunities presented by a
liberated rights regime since 2004. We believe there is
scope for further growth in future.
Content creation
UK Production
The Group's UK production activities, in factual, 
entertainment and drama, are carried out through a 
number of divisions and subsidiaries: RDF T elevision, 
IWC Media, T ouchpaper T elevision, Radar and Presentable. 
Collectively UK Production sales accounted for  32.1m
(2005:  25.5m) and the gross profits increased by 39%
year on year. The growth was boosted by acquisitions
completed during the year. A satisfying number of 
our existing programmes have been re-commissioned
within the last few months across the Group. 
US Production
US Production is carried out through RDF USA 
which has offices in Los Angeles and New Y ork. 
Sales in this division rose by only 1%, reflecting a year 
of reorganisation to build a platform for sustained 
future growth.
We installed a new management team under Chris Coelen,
a leading agent in the US TV market (and formerly RDF's
agent) and hired a creative head out of US network 
broadcaster ABC. With this team in place we are confident
that RDF USA can grow and take greater advantage of 
the opportunities presented by the sizeable North
American market.
Our leading US brand Wife Swap has been re-ordered 
by ABC for a third series. In the context of the highly 
competitive free-to-air US broadcast market this is a 
significant achievement. 15
Rights
RDF Rights is the division through which the group
exploits intellectual property arising out of television 
content. Exploitation is carried out on behalf of RDF 
group companies as well as third parties. Activities include
the sale of completed programmes and formats as well 
as initiating deals for DVDs, books and merchandising. 
RDF T elevision's share of net profits from exploitation is
also booked to this division.
RDF Rights is the fastest growing part of the group.
Revenues were up 43% to  15.6m reflecting our success 
in competing in the market for indie rights following 
regulatory change in 2004. RDF Rights now represents 
the programming of 80 producers and has rapidly 
established itself as a leading force in the distribution 
of indie programming.
One side effect of this impressive performance is that
RDF-owned content is declining as a percentage of RDF
Rights overall revenues. This means that gross margins
(but not gross profits) in this division fell during the year.
We are building on RDF Rights' continued success by
increasing the size of the team and extending the range 
of programming we sell beyond factual and entertainment
into drama. In addition the new US management team 
will strengthen RDF Rights' position in the US.
Our Markets
In summary our markets offer favourable long term 
opportunities for growth:
- The Communications Act 2003 has given 
independent producers ownership and much greater
control over the programming rights they create
- As a result independent producers are able to 
profit from creating commercially valuable content
- The BBC is committed to increasing the volume of 
programming it commissions from indie producers, 
making it the biggest buyer in the UK market
- The UK market for content is expanding as new 
niche channels come on stream and new media 
platforms, such as broadband, open up
- UK broadcasters are under greater regulatory 
pressure than ever to commission programming 
from outside London
- The US market remains a significant buyer of 
overseas programming and formats.
We are well positioned to exploit these trends:
- RDF is a leading independent producer with a 
reputation for delivering high quality content
- RDF is committed to developing commercially 
valuable programming and has built its creative 
teams to reflect this
Richard Eyre
Non-Ex ecutive Chairman
David Frank
Chief Ex ecutive
- RDF is increasing its business with the BBC significantly
- RDF Rights is the largest distributor of programming in
the UK not owned by a broadcasting group
- RDF is building its capacity outside London - acquiring
IWC Media in Glasgow, Presentable in Cardiff and setting
up RDF T elevision West in Bristol
- RDF has put in place a US management team skilled at
placing overseas programming and formats in the US.
Strategic Objectives
In the content business our primary focus is to continue
the growth of our group companies, in the UK and the 
US, by recruiting creative talent and by making further
selective acquisitions. Our aim is to extend the range of
genres in which we operate and broaden the base of
broadcaster customers that buy from us.
In the rights business we aim to continue to grow the 
volume of programming we represent in the domestic 
and international markets and extend the range of 
our services. 
In addition we are seeking to position the company to 
take best advantage of the rapid changes in technology
that are fundamentally affecting how, when and where
people consume televisual content. 
Ours is a people business. Everything we do, everything 
we achieve is down to the talent and commitment of the
people who work within the RDF Media Group. On behalf
of the shareholders therefore we would like to extend a
huge vote of thanks to all the staff within the group for
contributing to the success of the past year.