 2009 annual report and financial statements
3
Chairman's statement
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to present to shareholders your Company's annual report for the financial year to 30 June
2009.
Thecollapseinmarketliquidityandincommoditypricesatthebeginningoftheyearputgreatpressure
on the Company, but we treated the difficult period that followed as an opportunity for growth rather
than a threat. By the end of the financial year the improvement in our prospects was evident, and the
time since has been one of extraordinary progress and activity.
The disposal of the Company's iron ore and manganese assets inWestern Australia to a separate listed
associate company, Jupiter Mines Limited, has been completed, and the final stages in the floating off
of our uranium, specialty metal and rare earth assets through our ASX-listed associate Resource Star
Limited are being completed. Both companies have excellent prospects.
Anewfocusonourmajorgoldandvolcanicmassivesulphide(VMS )projectintheMigorigreenstone
belt sees us becoming an active explorer in Kenya.
Summary
The Company reports the following developments in the financial year to 30 June 2009:
  Share price decline from 2p to 0.975p;
   1,147,725 new cash before expenses raised from share placings;
   1,420,823 increase in net assets;
   3m SEDA facility put in place;
  Sale of Mt Alfred and other Western Australian iron ore assets to Jupiter Mines Limited
(Jupiter ), and establishment with Pallinghurst Resources of joint control over Jupiter;
  Grant of Oakover manganese tenements;
  Investment in Resource Gold Pty Limited and order for gravity gold plant; and
  Exploration at Mt Alfred.
Since the end of the financial year, there have been a number of further developments:
  Share price rise from 0.975p to 1.5p;
   633,000 new cash before expenses raised from share placings;
  Sale at profit of investment in Africa China Mining Corporation;
  Cancellation of order for gravity gold plant;
  Investment in 15%, with farm-in to 60%, of Mid Migori Mining Kenyan gold project;
  Completion of sale of Oakover tenements to Jupiter, with a corresponding rise in our Jupiter
shareholding to 27%;
  Option over Ngira-Migori licenses;
  24.2% owned uranium associate Resource Star Ltd raises A$600,000 and issues prospectus to
raise up to A$5m and relist;
  POSCO takes key stake in Jupiter;
  Acquisition of 15.78% holding in Cue Resources Limited, which has over 9m lbs
Indicated/Inferred Resource of uranium;
  Announcement of December drill programme at Migori.
Financial review
The Group made a pre-tax loss of  928,525 (2008 restated loss of  153,604) during the period; no
dividends have been paid or proposed. The restatement of last year's Income Statement is to take
revaluation surpluses and losses arising on available-for-sale trade investments and on associate
investments direct to equity rather than through the income statement. Recognised profit in the
financial period rose from  103,716 to  243,860, and net assets rose from  3,951,167 to  5,371,990. 2009 annual report and financial statements
4
Chairman's statement, continued
The rise in net assets was principally because of the increase in the value of available-for-sale financial
assets following the issue to the Company of 23,839,183 Jupiter shares upon the sale to Jupiter by the
Red Rock-Pallinghurst joint venture ofWest Australian iron ore assets at the end of March 2009.
After the end of the financial year, a further 54,155,867 Jupiter shares were issued to the Company in
September upon implementation of the final phase of the Jupiter transaction and sale of the Oakover
manganese tenements to Jupiter; the Company now holds 93,104,165 Jupiter shares.
The Company's holding in Jupiter, that currently has a market value of approximately  11m, will be
reflected in the income statement as and when the shares are sold.
Exploration review
TheCompanyrecognisedthatintheyearunderreviewitsfortuneswouldbeprincipallyaffectedbythe
successful conclusion of the Jupiter transaction, the pursuit of which involved some continuing cost,
rather than exploration activity. The year was a time of financial constraint when equity fundraisings
were expensive in terms of dilution because of the Company's low share price for much of the year.
Exploration was therefore kept to modest levels, influenced also by our view that it would be cheaper
to explore for resources on the stock market than in the ground.
New ventures were looked at and geological research performed in Mozambique and Chad, and this
expenditurewaswrittenoffastheinvestmentsdidnotproceed.Explorationincludingagravitysurvey
was completed at Mt Alfred in the period before the sale to Jupiter.
Since the June year end a full geological due diligence study and further exploration work have been
carried out on the gold prospectivity of the Migori greenstone belt in Kenya, where we subsequently
made an investment; at the beginning of December 2009 a reverse circulation drill programme is
scheduled to start on part of the Migori licenses, which is expected to be followed shortly by the
commencement of a diamond drill programme on other previously drilled targets.The current year is
expected to see the Company's most active exploration and drilling schedule to date.
The Company's associates Jupiter and Resource Star have ambitious exploration programmes for the
coming months; Jupiter has already begun exploration of the Oakover manganese tenements.
Corporate review
TheCompany'sobjectivesincludetheenhancementofshareholdervaluethroughacquisition,disposal,
jointventuretransactionsandflotationsaswellasbyexploration.Wehavemademanydisposalsinour
shortcorporatelife,andthePallinghurstjointventureandsaleofintereststoJupiterisasuccessfulcase
study for our joint venture strategy.
JointVenture: Much value has been added already, but Jupiter is still a work in progress. It is our hope
and belief that the strengths of the partners allied with us there, Pallinghurst and POSCO, will enable
us to identify and complete accretive and value additive transactions that will create a new force in the
 steel feed' sector. Shareholders will note that to be a force in this sector it is necessary to be or to
become very large, and we expect both to see the value of the Company's shareholding in Jupiter
increase greatly in value.
Relisting:The planned 2009 relisting of Resource Star, announced after the year end, will, we expect,
add value and potential to our uranium, niobium, and rare earth portfolio. Resource Star has just
completed a A$600,000 fundraising preparatory to listing, as a resultof which our shareholding is now
24.2%.Therelistedentity,withastrongnucleusofmanagement,willbeinapositiontoenterintofarm
in and farm out deals, joint ventures, acquisitions, and exploration, and to look for a major strategic
partner.
Acquisition: Our acquisition since year end of a key 15.8% stake in Canadian uranium explorer Cue
Resources Limited, the owner of the sandstone-hosted roll-front Yuty project in Paraguay, with an
Indicated Resource of 8.3m lbs at 420ppm U3O8 and Inferred Resource of 1.2m lbs at 500 ppm U3O8,
complements our investment in Resource Star and we hope to develop synergies between the two
companies.
Acquisition and farm-in: On 14 August 2009 the Company entered into an agreement with Kansai
Mining Corporation Limited (Kansai ) whereby it may acquire up to 60 per cent of Kansai's wholly
owned subsidiary company Mid-Migori Mining Company Ltd (MMM ), a company incorporated in 2009 annual report and financial statements
5
Chairman's statement, continued
Kenya which owns the Migori Gold Project. The Migori Gold Project has an Indicated Resource of
1,172,000 ounces gold, and our due diligence and exploration work to date indicates considerable
potential.
The Company will be allotted 15 per cent of the issued share capital of MMM for a total consideration
ofUS$750,000,partofwhichhasbeenpaid,andwillbeabletofarmintoafurther45%oncompletion
of a bankable feasibility.
Disposal: After the year end the Company disposed of its interest in Africa China Mining Corporation
for US$1m.
Personnel
Iwouldliketothankallourstafffortheirconsiderablecontributionduringtheyear.Wealsoreportwith
regret, and with thanks for all his services, the resignation during the year of Ken Watson, our
Managing Director and co-founder. We wish him well in developing his gold reclamation business,
which has started well and in which we hold 11%.
In October 2009 we welcomed to the Board ManoliYannaghas, who has been a key part of our group
for three years.
Auditor
We are grateful to Chapman Davis LLP for the advice and assistance given to us since the Company
was incorporated and admitted to AIM in 2005.The Board has now decided that it is prudent for the
Company's auditor for the future to be independent of the auditor of Regency Mines plc. Accordingly,
Chapman Davis LLP has agreed to be proposed as auditor of Regency Mines plc for the coming year,
but to resign as auditor to the Company. GrantThornton UK LLP has agreed to be proposed as auditor
to the Company.
The Future
It is encouraging that in the last few months we have been able to add interests in Indicated Resources
of uranium and gold to our portfolio. Through Jupiter we also have an interest in a small iron ore
Inferred Resource. For all these opportunities we have, directly or indirectly, to thank the poor markets
andthedamageinflictedonothersmalllistedcompaniesbythelossofmarketliquidityanddepth.We
hope to add to all these resources in the next months, and in particular to see Jupiter move towards
declared resources of magnetite and manganese as well.
FurtherdevelopmentsatJupiter,andwebelieveatResourceStarafteritsrelisting,willwehopeprovide
additional growth to our balance sheet this year and next.
WeshallworkdiligentlytoaddresourceatMigori,concentratingnotonlyonlodegoldbutalsoonthe
banded iron formations in the shear zone and on the base metal and gold potential of the rich VMS
system at the old Macalder mine. If possible, we shall look to limited production of gold from some of
the surface and near-surface deposits.
Andrew Bell
Chairman & chief executive
23 November 2009