 We remain focused on our policy of
investment in long term relationships 
in market sectors where support and
development of critical assets is a client
priority. Our key markets remain nuclear,
oil, gas, petrochemical, defence and 
food and these offer long term growth
opportunities.We will continue to seek
complementary acquisitions and we have
the financial capacity and management
capability to continue to grow the 
business further.We have started 
the year well and with a strong order 
book.We look forward with confidence 
to the remainder of the year.
Introduction
To date we have developed the Group with periods 
of controlled stepped growth followed by periods of
consolidation. The benefits of this policy are demonstrated by
further significant growth in revenue and profit in this financial
year. We remain focused on our policy of investment in long
term relationships in market sectors where support and
development of critical assets is a client priority. Our key
markets remain nuclear, oil, gas, petrochemical, defence and
food and these offer long term growth opportunities. We offer
a direct delivery model and the recent acquisition of Chieftain
Group plc (Chieftain ), which will be discussed later in my
report, extends the range and depth of that offering. 
T rading results
Revenue for the year ended 30 September 2008 increased 
by 52% to  86.7 million (2007:  57 .0 million). Profit before tax
was  4.6 million prior to the amortisation of acquired intangible
assets, an increase of 95% on the 2007 figure of  2.4 million.
The operating margin achieved was 5.4% compared to 4.3% 
in 2007 . Basic earnings per share stood at 16.9p compared to
11 .4p in 2007 , an increase of 48%. Diluted earnings per share
stood at 16.6p, an increase of 49% at an effective tax rate 
of 16.7%.
Both our operating divisions have performed well in the year
with Nuclear Services achieving revenue of  37 .7 million and
operating profit of  3.1 million at an operating margin of 8.2%
(2007: 6.6%). Revenue for the period was up 33.5% and
operating profit up 66.1%. Engineering Services contributed
revenue of  49 million, operating profit of  3.8 million and a
margin of 7 .8% (2007: 7 .2%). Revenue was up 70.1% and
operating profit up 84.1%. This performance demonstrates 
the solidity of the two divisions combining to deliver a very
satisfactory result for the Group.
Financial osition
The Group's strategy of cash backed organic growth alongside
a policy of selected acquisition using an equity model rather
than a debt model has put us in a strong position to continue
our development during these turbulent economic times.
2
p
Chairman's Statement
The Redhall name is now becoming synonymous with
quality and delivery.
David Jackson
Chairman and Chief Executive
81802 PRE  11/12/08  21:22  Page 2 Following the acquisition of Chieftain, effectively completed 
on 31 October 2008, we now have net assets in excess of 
 40 million and net cash on the balance sheet of in excess 
of  6 million. We believe that businesses that have pursued a
policy of prudent balance sheet management during the recent
buoyant times will benefit from opportunities presented by 
the credit crisis and we are in an excellent position should 
any opportunities arise.
We continue to turn profit into cash and we are delighted with
this year's cash generation from operations of  5.8 million
which represents 122% of our adjusted operating profit. Our
cash position has been further enhanced since the year end 
by the acquisition of Chieftain which also has net cash on its
balance sheet.
The Group's effective tax rate this year of 16.7% represents
further use of the losses brought forward. Although a large
percentage of these losses have been utilised we will continue
to benefit from the remaining losses to a lesser degree, over
the next two or three years, from the structure we have put 
in place.
Dividend
The Board has proposed the payment of a dividend of 4p per
share for the year, of which 1 .5p has already been paid as an
interim dividend. The total dividend this year represents an
increase of 78% on last year's dividend and is a reflection of
the confidence of your Board in the future prospects of the
business. Our dividend policy remains a minimum of three
times cover. The final dividend of 2.5p per share will be paid 
to shareholders on 26 February 2009 who are on the register
on 30 January 2009.
Acquisition
The acquisition of Chieftain was declared unconditional 
in all respects on 31 October 2008 and we currently have
acceptances of 95.45% at the date of this statement. We 
have enacted the provisions of Part 28 of the Companies Act
2006 to enable the balance of the shares to be compulsorily
purchased. This compulsory purchase is due to complete on 
23 December 2008.
The Chieftain acquisition represents a major opportunity 
for the Group. In line with our previously stated strategy we
have acquired a successful business which adds to our product
and skill offering whilst extending our geographical reach in key
markets. Chieftain provides geographical coverage in the oil,
gas and petrochemical markets in the North East area and 
also gives us new skills at the Barrow nuclear site where the
work is currently focused on the Astute class submarine
programme. In addition, Chieftain has a well respected labour
resource business which gives us both internal and external
opportunities to deploy that labour to good effect. The
additional fabrication facilities within Chieftain are currently
well utilised supplying projects in the oil and gas and power
generation industries and we will be looking to develop these
further as the nuclear new build programme comes on stream.
This acquisition gives us the potential to significantly grow 
our earnings per share during the course of 2008/09. Eleven
months of Chieftain's trading will be incorporated into our
Group results for the year ending 30 September 2009.
Employees
The trading performance reported in this Annual Report can 
only be achieved by a workforce and management who are
dedicated, trained to the highest level, operating in the safest
manner possible and working efficiently. I would like to thank
the staff for their continued efforts to make Redhall the chosen
supplier and contractor within our key markets.
We continue to grow the quantity and quality of our 
workforce and management. This is an ongoing process 
which commenced at the end of September 2005 when the
current management was appointed. We are pleased with the
progress that we have made in this regard and are particularly
pleased with the number of security cleared personnel that 
we now have in our organisation. This clearance enables a staff
member to work in the highest category security area in the
nuclear industry and remains one of our most valuable assets.
Strategy and growth prospects
Overall we are satisfied with the prospects of the business
both for the coming year and the future. The Redhall name is
now becoming synonymous with quality and delivery. It is
3
81802 PRE  11/12/08  21:22  Page 3 interesting to note that we have recently been invited by three
major clients to assist in programmes where other suppliers
have fallen short. Our objective is to increase our reputation
project by project and use the Redhall name to move up the
supply chain to the level of Tier 2 supplier. We are currently
tendering for some significant projects, success in which
would enable the business to take a further step up. We need
to remain patient as the achievement of this may take some
time but I do believe all the building blocks are in place to
enable this to happen over the next couple of years.
We currently have several major opportunities to take the
business forward. We have recently received a purchase order
for the first phase of blast protection work on the HEFF project
at Aldermaston, a project totalling  8.3 million over the next
three years. The acquisition of Chieftain has provided major
opportunities at Barrow for both the Astute submarine
programme and the new aircraft carrier programme. 
Sellafield and Aldermaston in particular provide further major
opportunities. On the Humber Bank we have the prospect of
additional major work in the carbon fibre market. We have had
a slow start to the four year contract for the manufacture of
Pond Furniture, but this contract is anticipated to accelerate in
years 2, 3 and 4 and remains a key strength for the business.
We continue to grow the business organically, by acquisition
and by strategic partnership. We anticipate that the relationship
with ONET Technologies will start bearing fruit during the
coming year and we are currently specified for  4 million 
of nuclear work with ONET . 
We continue to seek complementary acquisitions and we 
have the financial capacity and management capability to
continue to grow the business. Our order book currently
44
Chairman's Statement
Photograph by kind permission of BAE Systems Submarines
81802 PRE  15/12/08  16:17  Page 4 stands at  110 million. This could be enhanced in the short
term as we have some major prospects near to award. 
We look forward to updating shareholders on the progress 
of Redhall as the year develops.
Much has been said about the current credit crisis and
economic downturn. For our part we are not seeing any major
change in the opportunities afforded to our business. We have
the occasional disappointment but these disappointments are
balanced by other opportunities. Overall I am satisfied at this
early stage of the year that we can achieve current management
expectations and we have made a good start to the year.
David Jackson
Chairman and Chief Executive
3 December 2008
55
81802 PRE  11/12/08  21:22  Page 5