 04	 REED	 HEALTH	 GROUP	 PLC	 ANNUAL	 REPORT	 AND	 FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS	 2005
CHAIRMAN'S	 STATEMENT
This	 has	 proved	 to	 be	 a	 year	 of	 significant	 change	 for	 Reed	 Health	 Group.	 Change	 was	 clearly	 required	 as	 evidenced	 by	 the	 half	 year	 results,	 which	 reflected	 the	 difficult	 and	 volatile	 conditions	 of	 the	 markets	 served	 by	 the	 Group.	 In	 addition,	 the	 disruption	 and	 distraction	 to	 clients,	 candidates	 and	 	 staff	 caused	 by	 the	 Group's	 systems	 implementation	 in	 	 2004	 further	 exacerbated	 the	 challenges	 of	 the	 market.
To	 address	 these	 issues,	 in	 December	 2004	 the	 Board	 appointed	 Trevor	 Goul-Wheeker	 as	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 believes	 that	 his	 experience	 of	 working	 in	 highly	 competitive	 retail	 and	 industrial	 markets	 outside	 the	 sector	 will	 lead
the	 business	 towards	 recovery.	 We	 are	 pleased	 with	 the	 significant	 progress	 made	 over	 the	 second	 half.	 We	 also	 recognise	 the	 cost	 to	 shareholders,	 particularly	 in	 this	 	 financial	 year,	 and	 understand	 that	 real	 recovery	 will	 only	 	 be	 demonstrated	 by	 sustainable	 growth	 in	 revenues,	 	 profits	 and	 shareholder	 value.
F I N A N C I A L S
Turnover	 for	 the	 year	 decreased	 by	 14%	 to	  90.0	 million	 (2004:	  104.8	 million),	 and	 gross	 profit	 fell	 by	 12.8%	 to	 	  21.1	 million	 (2004:	  24.2	 million),	 resulting	 in	 an	 operating	 loss	 of	  1.5	 million	 (2004:	 operating	 profit	 of	  1.4	 million).	 The	 loss	 before	 tax	 for	 the	 period	 was	  2.1	 million	 (2004:	 	 profit	 of	  1.4	 million)	 and	 the	 loss	 per	 share	 was	 3.56p	 	 (2004:	 basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 of	 1.05p).
However,	 the	 Board	 is	 pleased	 that	 the	 significant	 sales	 decline	 experienced	 over	 recent	 years	 was	 stemmed	 over	 	 the	 second	 half	 of	 the	 year.
T u r n o v e r 	 F i r s t 	 h a l f 	 S e c o n d 	 h a l f 	 V a r i a n c e 	 H 1 / H 2
Year	 ending	 30.6.04	 	  54.9m	  49.9m	 (9.1%)
Year	 ending	 30.6.05	  45.1m	  44.9m	 (0.4%)
Excluding	 the	 restructured	 Nurse	 and	 Education	 divisions,	 there	 was	 an	 improvement	 in	 sales:
T u r n o v e r 	 F i r s t 	 h a l f 	 	 	 	 	 	 S e c o n d 	 h a l f 	 V a r i a n c e 	 H 1 / H 2
Year	 ending	 30.6.04	  42.7m	  39.4m	 (7.7%)
Year	 ending	 30.6.05	  37.2m	  39.2m	 5.4%
The	 Group	 incurred	 exceptional	 and	 non-recurring	 costs	 of	  2.26	 million	 in	 the	 year	 to	 restructure	 and	 achieve	 significant	 savings	 in	 Nurse,	 Health,	 Doctor	 and	 Education	 to	 produce	 improved	 results	 over	 the	 second	 half	 and	 to	 turn	 around
performance	 for	 the	 future.	 The	 operating	 profit	 before	 goodwill	 amortisation	 and	 these	 exceptional	 items	 for	 	 the	 year	 was	  2.34	 million	 (2004:	  3.0	 million).
WE	HAVE	A	NEW	SENIOR	MANAGEMENT	
TEAM,	WHO	HAVE	THE	MIX	OF	SKILLS	
REQUIRED	TO	IMPLEMENT	THE	BUSINESS	
TRANSFORMATION	NEEDED	TO	
SUCCEED.	 BARRY	 HARTOP 05	 REED	 HEALTH	 GROUP	 PLC	 ANNUAL	 REPORT	 AND	 FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS	 2005
	 F i r s t 	 h a l f 	 S e c o n d 	 h a l f 	 	 V a r i a n c e 	 H 1 / H 2
Year	 ending	 30.6.04	 	  2.5m	  0.5m	 (80%)
Year	 ending	 30.6.05	  1.2m	  1.1m	 (8%)
We	 are	 pleased	 with	 the	 reduction	 in	 debtors	 to	  16.0	 million	 (2004:	  24.4	 million)	 and	 expect	 further	 improvement	 over	 	 the	 next	 financial	 year	 in	 reducing	 the	 net	 debt	 position	 of	 	  4.7	 million	 (2004:	  14.0	 million).
D I V I D E N D
The	 Board's	 policy	 is	 to	 recommend	 dividends	 that	 take	 account	 of	 the	 underlying	 profitability	 of	 the	 Group,	 the	 	 need	 to	 fund	 its	 organic	 growth	 plans	 and	 the	 existing	 level	 	 of	 debt.	 The	 Board	 anticipates	 that	 in	 future	 it	 will	 recommend	 dividends	 that	 are	 covered	 at	 least	 two	 and	 a	 quarter	 times	 	 by	 earnings	 (profit	 after	 tax	 excluding	 goodwill).	 For	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 June	 2005,	 the	 directors	 recommend	 a	 dividend	 of	 0.25p	 (2004:	 2.35p)	 which	 reflects	 this	 policy,	 discounted	 by	 a	 factor	 that	 takes	 into	 account	 the	 losses	 reported	 for	 the	 year.
P E O P L E
At	 last	 year's	 Annual	 General	 Meeting,	 Lord	 Sawyer	 retired	 by	 rotation	 having	 chosen	 not	 to	 stand	 for	 re-election	 as	 a	 Non-
executive	 Director.	 I	 would	 again	 like	 to	 thank	 Lord	 Sawyer	 for	 his	 years	 of	 service	 and	 contribution	 to	 the	 Group.	 Derek	 Beal	 was	 appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 Non-executive	 Director	 at	 the	 2004	 AGM.	 He	 has	 had	 a	 long	 association	 with	 Reed	 Health	 Group	 as	 a	 Director	 of	 Reed	 Executive	 and	 we	 welcome	 the	 benefit	 his	 experience	 brings	 to	 our	 business.
Trevor	 Goul-Wheeker	 was	 appointed	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 December	 2004	 and	 Angela	 Morris,	 Divisional	 Director	 -	 Social	 Care	 and	 Nurse,	 was	 appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 November	 2004.	 Following	 the	 resignation	 of	 David	 Fennell,	 the	 former	 Chief	 Executive,	 Mark	 Garratt,	 Group	 Finance	 Director	 and	 Susan	 Dael,	 HR	 Director,	 we	 were	 pleased	 to	 announce	 the	 appointments	 of	 Steve	 Cheetham	 as	 Divisional	 Director	 -	 Health	 and	 Doctor	 and	 Ian	 Furniss	 as	 Group	 Finance	 Director	 in	 June	 2005.	 Both	 are	 Directors	 of	 the	 Group.	 As	 separately	 announced,	 Jim	 Carter	 joined	 the	 	 Board	 as	 Director	 for	 People	 and	 Quality	 in	 October	 2005,	 demonstrating	 the	 Group's	 commitment	 to	 the	 compliance,	 quality	 and	 development	 of	 our	 staff	 and	 candidates.
The	 Board	 believes	 that	 the	 new	 executive	 team,	 with	 its	 wide	 range	 of	 experience	 will	 transform	 the	 business	 and	 exploit	 both	 the	 existing	 and	 emerging	 opportunities	 presented	 by	 	 the	 markets	 served	 by	 Reed	 Health	 Group.
The	 changes	 and	 challenges	 of	 the	 past	 year	 have	 placed	 considerable	 demands	 on	 the	 staff	 of	 the	 Group.	 It	 was	 therefore	 a	 positive	 achievement	 to	 reduce	 staff	 turnover	 by	 more	 than	 25%	 over	 the	 prior	 financial	 year.	 On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board,	 I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 our	 employees	 for	 their	 continued	 energy	 and	 commitment.
S H A R E 	 O P T I O N 	 P L A N
The	 Group's	 Remuneration	 Committee	 has	 been	 reviewing	 	 the	 Group's	 remuneration	 arrangements	 for	 senior	 executives.	 As	 a	 result	 of	 the	 review	 the	 Committee	 propose	 to	 make	 a	 number	 of	 amendments	 to	 the	 existing	 share	 option	 plans.	 The	 main	 amendments	 proposed	 are	 to	 change	 the	 vesting	 periods	 for	 the	 exercise	 of	 options	 and	 implement	 more	 demanding	 performance	 conditions.	 A	 number	 of	 more	 minor	 amendments	 are	 also	 proposed	 to	 take	 account	 of	 changes	 	 to	 tax	 law	 and	 current	 practice.	 Resolutions	 9,	 10	 and	 11	 	 on	 the	 Notice	 of	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 propose	 these	 amendments.	 Revised	 option	 scheme	 rules	 will	 be	 available	 	 at	 the	 Company's	 registered	 office	 and	 at	 the	 Annual	 	 General	 Meeting.
O U T L O O K
The	 potential	 for	 providing	 specialist	 staff	 for	 the	 social	 care	 and	 health	 markets	 is	 substantial	 and	 we	 believe	 that	 both	 local	 and	 national	 government	 will	 continue	 to	 outsource	 	 to	 private	 sector	 partners.	 However,	 these	 markets	 are	 undergoing	 a	 fundamental	 transition	 and	 will	 remain	 	 volatile	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.
Gross	 Margins	 will	 be	 increasingly	 depressed	 by	 competitive	 and	 contractual	 pressures	 and	 will	 demand	 a	 substantial	 improvement	 in	 business	 efficiency	 within	 the	 Group	 to	 enhance	 gross	 margin	 conversion	 into	 profit.
Reed	 Health	 Group	 is	 committed	 to	 the	 public	 sector's	 objectives	 of	 value	 for	 money	 and	 the	 highest	 standards	 	 of	 compliance	 and	 will	 seek	 to	 be	 a	 provider	 of	 first	 choice.	 The	 growing	 regulatory	 and	 contractual	 environment	 within	 	 our	 markets	 will	 provide	 the	 potential	 for	 large	 scale	 volume	 gains	 and	 lead	 to	 polarisation	 of	 staffing	 providers.	 The	 Group	 now	 has	 the	 breadth	 and	 quality	 of	 candidates,	 systems	 and	 customer	 service	 and	 the	 management	 team	 and	 staff	 to
drive	 growth	 through	 contract	 gains,	 and	 the	 Board	 expects	 	 a	 gradual	 and	 sustainable	 improvement	 in	 earnings.
BARRY HARTOP 
CHAIRMAN
31	 OCTOBER	 2005
Reed	 Health	 Group	 has	 a	 nationwide	 network	 of	 offices	 covering	 the	 health	 and	 social	 care	 professions.	 As	 the	 drive	 for	 efficiencies	 in	 both	 the	 NHS	 and	 local	 authorities	 leads	 to	 an	 increase	 in	 Vendor	 Managed	 Services	 the	 breadth	 of	 our	 offer	 places	 the	 Group	 in	 a	 strong	 position	 to	 service	 these	 types	 of	 contract.
Our	 customers	 are	 increasingly	 looking	 for	 a	 recruitment	 partner	 that	 can	 deliver	 all	 their	 recruitment	 needs	 rather	 	 than	 just	 one	 profession	 or	 specialty.	 Reed	 Health	 Group	 	 will	 work	 with	 strategic	 partners	 to	 fulfil	 customers'	 needs	 	 for	 all	 temporary	 staffing	 disciplines	 beyond	 healthcare.
OUR	 BREADTH	
OF	 OFFER