 4   Business overview
Report and Accounts 2012  |  Regenersis Plc  
Executive Chairman's Statement
Our plan, to deliver double digit sales 
growth on steadily improving operating 
profi t margins, concentrating on Emerging 
Markets, Advanced Solutions and niche 
product areas, is fi rmly underway. In the 
past nine months, we have extended the 
Group's operations into Spain, Mexico, 
Argentina, Sweden and the USA. 
The opportunity exists for us to build a sizeable multinational 
provider of aftermarket services and technology to global 
technology clients. Our aim is to do so. This fi rst full year of 
results during my tenure as Chairman has delivered not only 
a year of solid growth, under the new strategy introduced 
in June 2011, but also the fi rst steps in delivering this vision. 
I would like to thank all of our employees and customers 
for their part in making this year a success. Our revenue 
increased by 13% to  139.9 million and headline operating 
profi t improved by 24% to  7.8 million. We have continued 
to deliver on what we set out to do - double-digit revenue 
growth on steadily improving profi t margins.
Cash fl ow management, during the course of the year, improved 
with operating cash fl ow of  4.9 million (2011:  2.4million). Net 
debt at the year-end was just  2.9 million (2011:  3.8 million). 
This performance has been delivered against a challenging 
backdrop of change in our sector, with some of our largest 
clients suffering well-publicised and very material volume 
declines. In response we have rebalanced organically and 
by acquisition, towards faster-growing clients, geographies 
and service lines. I am particularly pleased that we have 
entered Mexico and the USA and that we have organically 
grown new Advanced Solutions offerings in Digital Care 
and Recommerce.
A year into the new strategy and with the initial turnaround 
activities behind us, we have a stronger business; well 
placed in its market with an outstanding management team, 
of which I am proud. We have continued to invest to support 
future growth. We have absorbed the costs of organic 
market entry to Turkey and South Africa. We have made 
important personnel changes, additions and improvements, 
including: our new Non-executive director, Kevin Bradshaw; 
new CFO, Jog Dhody; as well as externally-hired teams 
dedicated to Recommerce and Digital Care; and new sales 
directors in the USA, Turkey, South Africa and Poland.
The acquisition of HDM is, I believe, an outstanding deal for 
the Group. HDM brings a talented team and an operation 
with an industry reputation for excellence. It takes us directly 
into new Emerging Markets in Mexico and Argentina and 
opens other Latin American avenues from a perspective 
of clients, language, and culture. Spain is a key European 
market, home to Telefonica, and also brings to Regenersis 
a large boost in its presence with Samsung. I would like to 
welcome, again, all of our new colleagues. 
As a result of these actions, we now have a footprint of 
22 sites, in 12 countries across three continents. Seven of 
these countries were opened or acquired since the new 
Board took over in March 2011. We have nine well-defi ned 
product and service offerings with clear teams and owners, 
of which four have been developed in this period. This matrix 
of geographies and products matters enormously because 
(1) it is how we leverage and build on our strengths, assets 
and relationships and (2) it is how we translate our strategy 
for growth in Emerging Markets and Advanced Solutions 
into action on the ground. We currently offer products and 
services to approximately 25 percent of the total universe 
of opportunities available to us, offering clear and present 
opportunities for growth. Please see Matrix of services and 
geographies on page 8. 
Emerging Markets
Overall, revenue declined marginally to  41 million. Headline 
operating profi t also reduced marginally to  4.6 million. These 
results refl ect the negative impact of declines in sales of new 
devices by some of our large mobile clients in Poland and 
Romania, the Group's relatively lower exposure in the period 
to fast-growing brands such as Samsung and Apple and start 
up investment in South Africa. The Group has, however, made 
signifi cant progress in rebalancing this mix during the year.  
The new territories opened in 2010/11, Turkey and South 
Africa, have shown very good progress over their fi rst year of 
operation. We continue to focus on both organic and acquisitive 
Matthew Peacock 
Executive Chairman  Business overview   5
Regenersis Plc  |  Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
routes into new markets. The recent acquisition of the HDM 
business will also give access to Mexico and Argentina.
Western Europe
Western Europe comprised principally UK and Germany, 
although Sweden was brought into the segment during the 
year. Spain will be part of the segment in the next year. Overall 
revenue increased 26% to  80 million due mainly to growth 
from new contract wins in the UK and Germany. Headline 
operating profi t grew by 38% to  2.1 million, refl ecting 
restructuring and cost reductions in the UK operations. 
Advanced Solutions
Advanced Solutions included our innovative services in set 
top box repair and repair avoidance, as well as technically 
driven solutions in other markets. Overall revenue increased 
8% to  19 million. Headline operating profi t grew by 20% 
to  2.9 million. Again, we are pursuing both organic and 
acquisitive routes to expand our business in this area.
During the year, a signifi cant contract for the supply of the 
in-fi eld testing product was signed by Virgin Media. This 
will include a phased roll out of these units to their fi eld 
engineers. Since the year end, our technology has been 
successfully piloted by a large US cable TV company and I 
am very pleased to report that a roll-out agreement has now 
been secured. We have also expanded our range of service 
offerings to include:
  Recommerce - which offers a  repair refurbishment and 
onward resale of mobile devices in collaboration with our 
major clients.  
  Digital Care - which provides a range of extended 
warranty and insurance services to end customers 
through intermediaries covering mobile, media and other 
portable consumer electronic equipment
  Business Process Outsourcing - which builds on our 
vendor management services, running the repair function 
for our customers and the retail network on their behalf in 
selected geographies.  
The Board continues to focus on realising the strategy and 
on achieving operational excellence consistently across 
the whole Group. The strategy requires us to build on our 
existing presence, especially in Emerging Markets and in 
Advanced Solutions, areas in which superior opportunities 
for shareholder value creation are achievable. The strategy 
also emphasises building strong niche positions, which tend 
to have superior margin characteristics. It is noteworthy that 
profi ts from this area now equate to 30% of the Group's 
profi ts, before corporate costs.   
Acquisition of Anovo Nordic
On 23 January 2012, we purchased a 50% share in Anovo 
Nordic, which was renamed Regenersis Nordic AB. This 
business has a good market share in mobile repair in 
Sweden and gives us an entry point into the Nordic market. 
Acquisition of HDM
On 31 August 2012, we completed the acquisition of HDM 
which has operations in Spain, Mexico and Argentina. 
Its results will be consolidated in the coming year from 
1 September 2012.
Banking facilities 
During the year, we extended our banking facilities from 
 15 million to  23.25 million for the period to October 2015, 
providing signifi cant funding to undertake further investment 
and M&A activity.
Dividend
In line with the Board's policy to recommence paying a 
dividend to shareholders, the Board is recommending a 
fi nal dividend of 1.1 pence per ordinary share, to be paid 
on 5 December 2012 to shareholders on the register on 9 
November 2012. Based on the Board's anticipated dividend 
split of one third interim dividend and two thirds fi nal 
dividend, this implies a full year dividend equivalent of 1.65 
pence per ordinary share.
Current trading and outlook
In the period since the year end, current trading has been 
in line with the market's expectations and is trending well. 
We remain optimistic about the  opportunity set' presented 
to us and are seeing unusually good global acquisition 
opportunities, as the market consolidates around clients' 
geographic needs, and substantial organic opportunities, 
as our service portfolio improves and we follow key clients 
into new geographies. 
Our markets and specifi c client contracts continue to show 
growth and present regular opportunities to win signifi cant 
new business. The Board continues to target double digit 
revenue growth on steadily improving operating profi t 
margins and, given good return on capital employed, 
expects to continue its R&D and capital expenditure 
programme.
Matthew Peacock 
Executive Chairman 
25 September 2012