 15
Regus Report & Accounts 2005
ROGER ORF
INDEPENDENT SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Roger (53) was appointed a non-executive director of Regus 
in 1998 and he is Chairman of the Audit Committee. Roger 
is Head of European Property Investments for Citigroup. 
He was formerly Head of European Operations for Lone Star, 
an investment company. Prior to this, Roger made investments 
for his own account, managed investments on behalf of Apollo 
Real Estate Advisors and was in charge of Goldman Sachs 
European real estate department.
MARTIN ROBINSON
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Martin (43) joined the Board of Regus in August 2002 and is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Martin is Chairman
of Holmes Place and is also a Director of the Supervisory Board
of EuroDisney SCA. He has held senior management positions 
with Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Corporation 
and worked as a Management Consultant for four years with 
McKinsey & Co Inc.
BOARD COMMITTEES
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Roger Orf Chairman
Martin Robinson
Stephen East
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
John Matthews Chairman
Martin Robinson
Roger Orf
Stephen East
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Martin Robinson Chairman
Roger Orf
Stephen East
JOHN MATTHEWS
CHAIRMAN
John (61) joined Regus in 1995 as a non-executive director and
was appointed Chairman in July 2002. He is currently Chairman
of Crest Nicholson plc and an independent director of Center 
Parcs (UK) Group plc, Diploma plc, Rotork plc and SDL plc. 
A Chartered Accountant, he was previously Managing Director 
of County Natwest and Deputy Chairman as well as Deputy 
Chief Executive of Beazer plc, the international aggregates, 
construction and housing group. John is Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
STEPHEN EAST
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Stephen (48) was appointed to the Board as a non-executive 
director on 11 March 2005. Stephen was formerly Finance 
Director of MEPC plc and is currently Finance Director at 
Woolworths Group plc. Prior to that he had run his own 
consultancy business and held senior positions with Redland 
PLC. He is a non-executive director of Star Energy Group plc. 
He has been appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees. Stephen is a Chartered Accountant
and Deputy President of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
14
Regus Report & Accounts 2005
MARK DIXON
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Chief Executive and Founder, Mark (46) is one of Europe's 
best-known entrepreneurs. Since founding Regus in Brussels 
in 1989, he has achieved a formidable reputation for leadership
and innovation. Prior to Regus he established businesses in 
the retail and wholesale food industry. Recipient of two major 
awards for enterprise, Mark's vision of the future of work has 
revolutionised the way business approaches its property needs.
STEPHEN GLEADLE
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Stephen (47) joined Regus as Chief Financial Offi cer on 
31 October 2005. Stephen was Group Financial Controller of 
Tarmac plc, after which he was Finance Director of Synstar plc
and of lastminute.com plc. Stephen replaced Rudy Lobo 
who has held the post since October 2003. Rudy has taken 
up the role of Chief Operating Offi cer. Stephen is a Chartered 
Accountant. 
RUDY LOBO
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
Rudy (50) joined Regus in 1992 as Chief Financial Offi cer 
and reassumed the role in October 2003. In October 2005 
he relinquished this role to Stephen Gleadle and took up the 
role of Chief Operating Offi cer. In this role, he is responsible 
for commercial operations, human resources and for directing 
Regus' IT and e-business strategy. Rudy is also a Director and 
Trustee of the charity Great Causes Ltd. Previously, Rudy was 
Head of Finance and Group Company Secretary of Medicom 
International Ltd, a publisher of medical journals. Rudy is a 
Certifi ed Accountant.   17
Regus Report & Accounts 2005
POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
The Group does not follow a universal code dealing specifi cally
with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, our practice
is to:
  Agree the terms of payment upfront with the supplier
  Ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms 
 of payment
  Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal 
 obligations.
At 31 December 2005, the number of creditor days outstanding
for the Group was 27 days (2004: 35 days) and the Company, 
nil days (2004: nil days).
GOING CONCERN
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts on pages 
30 to 62.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS
As at 20 March 2006, the Company has been notifi ed of the 
following interests held in more than 3% of the issued share 
capital of the Company.
  Number of % of issued
  ordinary shares shared capital
Holder
Maxon Investments BV 
(a)
 331,958,286 33.71
Merrill Lynch Investment
Managers (UK) 91,167,220 9.26
Artemis Investment Managers 81,718,211 8.30
Standard Life Investment
Management 66,761,400 6.78
M & G Investment Management  60,958,778 6.19
Morley Fund Management 30,233,099 3.07
(a) Mark Dixon owns the 100% interest in Maxon.
AUDITORS
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, 
a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as 
auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
On behalf of the Board
TIM REGAN
COMPANY SECRETARY
20 March 2006
16
Regus Report & Accounts 2005
The directors present their report and the audited fi nancial 
statements of Regus Group plc for the year ended 
31 December 2005. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW
The Group is the world's leading supplier of global offi ce 
outsourcing solutions. The Group's trading results are set out in
the fi nancial statements on pages 30 to 33. Details of the Group's
future prospects and review of operations are described in 
the Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive's Review and 
Operational and Financial Review on pages 2 to 13.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
Profi t for the year before tax was  38.7 million (2004:  4.9 million
loss), which after adding back non-recurring items of  4.9 million
(2004:  8.6 million) amounted to a profi t of  43.6 million (2004: 
 3.7 million).
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend. 
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS' INTERESTS
The directors who held offi ce since the last Annual Report were:
Executive directors
Mark Dixon 
Rudy Lobo 
Stephen Gleadle (appointed 31 October 2005)
Non-executive directors
John Matthews 
Roger Orf 
Martin Robinson
Stephen East 
Biographical details for all current directors are shown on 
pages 14 and 15.
Details of the directors' interests and shareholdings are given 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 27.
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, 
environmental and ethical (SEE) matters. The directors 
continually monitor risks to its businesses, including SEE 
risks, which may impact the Group's short and long term 
value. During 2005 no signifi cant risks were identifi ed.
PEOPLE AND CULTURE
Employee involvement
It is the Group's policy to communicate with all employees and 
to encourage employees to contribute to the management of 
the business. Communication with employees is carried out 
through the Company's intranet, employee newsletters, briefi ng
meetings conducted by senior management and formal and 
informal discussions. Interim and Annual Reports are available 
to all staff. Informal communication is further facilitated by the 
Group's regional organisational structure. 
The workplace
Empowered employees are key to delivering value for the 
organisation. Clear accountabilities have been established and 
reward strategies have been aligned with fi nancial and non-
fi nancial performance measures. In our centres we operate 
fl exible working practices which give us the edge in retaining 
experienced and well trained staff and allows us to align our 
team members' hours to the evolving needs of the business 
and our customer requirements.
Equal opportunity
The Group endorses and supports the principal of equal
employment opportunity. It is the policy of the Group to provide
equal employment opportunity to all qualifi ed individuals, which
ensures that all employment decisions are made, subject 
to legal obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis. Due 
consideration is given to the recruitment, promotion, training 
and working environment of all staff including those with 
disabilities. It is the Group's policy to encourage the training 
and further development of all its employees where this is of 
benefi t to the individual and to the Group.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
high standards of health and safety. This means taking all 
reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety
and welfare of our employees, customers, visitors and other 
persons who may be affected by our activities. The effective 
management of health and safety is a legal issue and it is also 
business critical as it effects reputation, investor confi dence, 
supplier relationships, staff morale and overall profi tability.
In order to meet these responsibilities the Group:
  Assesses the risks to health and safety
  Implements safe systems at work 
  Provides information, instruction and training
  Establishes and maintain emergency procedures
  Regularly reviews health and safety policies and procedures.
We are proactive in our approach to health and safety by 
monitoring proposed changes in legislation and implementing 
policies accordingly.
THE ENVIRONMENT
The Group does not operate in a business sector which causes
signifi cant pollution but the Board recognises that the business
does have an impact on the environment. The Board is 
committed to managing and improving the ways in which 
our activities affect the environment by: 
  Optimising the use of energy - with over 700 locations it 
 is important that we continually identify ways to improve 
 energy effi ciency across all our operations. We have 
 implemented certain initiatives to reduce our energy use. 
 These include, among others, resetting boiler controls, 
 amending time settings for air conditioning and using timing 
 switches for hot water supply. 
  Encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper and toner 
 cartridges, mixed offi ce paper, packaging, bottles, 
 aluminium cans and plastic cups.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
The Group made no charitable donations during the year 
(2004:  nil). It is the Group's policy not to make political 
donations either in the UK or overseas.
DIRECTORS' REPORT