 AssetCo plc
l
Report and Financial Statements 2011 1
Chairman's statement
Introduction
This 18 month financial period being reported upon has been one of major disappointment for
shareholders, as the share price collapsed from 60p to 1.75p once the serious liquidity problems became
apparent, the potential approaches to acquire the business evaporated, and the Company was ultimately
financed through the dilutive share issue which was announced last September.
However on 29 September the successful restructuring of the business was completed; this allowed for
the parent company, AssetCo plc, to  re-finance' and  ring-fence' the Company's business in the United
Arab Emirates (UAE ) from the liabilities of the UK operations so that its focus can be on growing
the operations in the UAE. In recognition of this change, we are today announcing the appointment to
the main Plc's Board of our UAE's directors, Gareth White (Managing Director) and Dr Jeff Ord
(Operations Director) to take effect from 11 April 2012.
Background
The Board has undergone significant change during the period under review with the departure of all
of the directors who had been present since the time of the reverse acquisition back in 2007, namely:
Tim Wightman (Chairman), John Shannon (Chief Executive), Frank Flynn (Finance Director) and
Adrian Bradshaw (Non-Executive). Also, Scott Brown who replaced Frank Flynn as Finance Director
joined and left during the period.
I was appointed as Interim Executive Chairman on 23 March 2011 to replace Tim Wightman and, at the
same time, Christopher Mills was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company. This followed
announcements on 14 and 18 March 2011 that the  16 million placing was short in meeting working
capital needs. The working capital requirement was quantified on 21 March as  3 -  4 million and both
my appointment and Mr Mills' were a condition of further financial support from North Atlantic Value
LLP, Gartmore Investment Management Ltd and Utilico Investments Ltd.
The liquidity problems the Company faced during the course of the year are well documented and
explained in the Circular to Shareholders and the Scheme of Arrangement posted on 9 September 2011.
In addition and prior to the refinancing the Board also considered several approaches from potential
bidders, none of which resulted in an offer.
The shortage of capital identified above as  3 -  4 million proved to be a significant understatement as
the complex refinancing solution announced in September last year was ultimately a total package of
 69 million involving a further  14 million capital from shareholders, a Scheme of Arrangement, and
the restructuring of bank borrowings.
The solution was for AssetCo plc to be  ring-fenced' from the liabilities of the rest of the Group
enabling a change in strategy to focus on growing its operations in the Middle East where it continues
to pursue several contract opportunities and sees potential for expansion for outsourced Fire and Rescue
services.
The Balance sheet of the Parent Company AssetCo plc, the vehicle for the UAE operations as at
30 September 2011 shows net assets of  5.2 million. Not all of the cash due from the share Placing had
been received by the year-end, but after allowing for these receipts and settling expenses, AssetCo plc
had cash balances of approximately  7.5 million.
Change of Year End/Audited Financial Statements
The Board concluded at the time of the restructuring in September 2011 that, to reflect the changing
nature of the business, the Company should change its year-end from 31 March to 30 September; this
also enabled the impact of the refinancing to be taken into account in the audited financial statements. 2 AssetCo plc
l
Report and Financial Statements 2011
Chairman's statement (continued)
Grant Thornton UK LLP resigned as Auditors and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were appointed
Auditors of the Company.
The timely production and audit of these financial statements for the 18 month period to 30 September
2011 has been hampered by the absence of those involved in the past financial statements, the lack of
financial records, complexity of past accounting practices, and the going-concern issues associated with
the continuing Bank and customer support for the UK subsidiaries.
There is an unmodified audit opinion for the 2011 Balance sheet of the Parent Company that contains
the UAE contracts and an emphasis of matter to clarify its basis of preparation as a going-concern to
reflect the fact that it is  ring-fenced' from the liabilities of the UK subsidiaries. However, the Company
and the Group audit opinions in respect of the opening balance sheet at 1 April 2010 and the Income
statements and Cash flows statements for the period ended 30 September 2011 are qualified, and the
Group audit opinion is modified in respect of the going-concern basis of preparation of financial
statements as a consequence of the UK subsidiaries' reliance on future Bank and customer support.
It is regretful that due principally to a serious failure of management and internal financial controls in
the UK operations and at Group level, there were significant overstatement of profits and assets in the
financial accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010. As a consequence of a number of errors in the
financial statements of prior years, and in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, changes in
accounting estimates and errors , the 2009 and the 2010 Balance sheets and the 2010 Income statement
have been restated to reflect the relevant adjustments.
The extent of these errors is significant: reported revenues for the year ended 31 March 2010 reduced
by  18.6 million from  45.2 million to  26.2 million and Operating profits of  17.4 million reduced by
 28.8 million to become operating losses of  11.4 million.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the 18-month period ended 30 September 2011, shows
Revenue of  49.0 million (2010: Restated  26.2 million); Operating loss before Exceptional items of
 2.5 million (2010: Restated Operating loss before exceptional items of  2.0 million); Exceptional
items of  9.6 million (2010: Restated Exceptional item of  9.3 million); Loss for the period of  22.2
million (2010: Restated loss of  23.3 million).
The prior-year adjustments to re-state the Income statements were  25.5 million in 2010 and  13
million in 2009 with the cumulative principal adjustments being: Revenue recognition 2010:  23.2
million (2009:  6.6 million), Onerous lease provisions 2010:  11.9 million (2009:  7.2 million) and an
adjustment relating to the write-off of related party balances connected to John Shannon of  2.5 million
in 2010 (2009:  nil).
The prior-year adjustments relating to the Balance sheet were  149.7 million in 2010 and  120.2
million in 2009, with the principal adjustments being: Property, plant and equipment 2010:  46.6
million (2009:  48.0 million); Goodwill 2010:  56.7 million (2009:  55.0 million); Trade and other
Receivables 2010:  22.2 million (2009:  6.6 million) and Onerous leases 2010:  11.9 million (2009:
 7.2 million).
Business Review
UAE
It was clear that there were opportunities for profit generation and growth in this territory and from the
three-year Special Operations Command contract for outsourced Fire and Rescue Services which had
commenced in March 2010, as well as from an agreement with Emirates Advanced Investments which
also offers the potential to enter into similar contracts. AssetCo plc
l
Report and Financial Statements 2011 3
Chairman's statement (continued)
The outsourcing operations in UAE commenced trading at the start of this period; it has been recognised
by shareholders and remaining management that the business model had good prospects but had been
deprived of capital by the previous management as they focussed the support on the UK operations. The
vast majority of the capital taken from the UAE at the beginning of the contract has now been returned
to these operations.
The underlying trading performance in UAE is best explained by reference to the Segmental Reporting
for the Parent Company AssetCo plc; in the 18-month period ended 30 September 2011 the UAE
business which commenced trading in April 2010 had Revenues of  12.8 million and operating profit
of  1.1 million.
UK
In contrast to our UAE operation, the UK businesses are effectively vehicle leasing & maintenance, and
capital had been continually allocated to the capital intensive asset management UK businesses and
other companies associated with this sector.
These businesses, excluding the September 2011  14 million Placing, had already been recipients of the
various capital raisings totalling  65 million over the last four years.
It appears that income and cash generation levels generated were sufficient to meet interest payments
but did not match the capital repayment profiles of the Bank borrowings or provide the necessary funds
for the longer term asset replacement requirements of the contracts.
In effect, funds from shareholders had seemingly been provided to sustain a flawed business model and
financial structure with little prospect of shareholder value.
The way forward was for shareholders not to inject any more capital into the UK business and for the
Plc and UAE operations to be  ring-fenced' from the liabilities of the UK businesses.
On this basis, the banks recognised that their borrowings were not matched by the underlying assets and
the UK business was only sustainable with reduced levels of debt and capital repayments. As announced
in the Circular to Shareholders, the banks agreed in principle to writing their debts down from  79
million to  43 million.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to improve performance, become more efficient and either
refinance or dispose of these businesses following a period of review. As these are long term asset
financing contracts we have been working with the banks and the customers to provide a solution but,
given the lack of clarity in past financial statements, the need to finance replacement assets, possible
breaches of contract and contract performance issues, the timing and ultimate outcomes are uncertain.
Outlook
The restructuring should provide a basis for a solution to the difficult UK vehicle leasing and
maintenance businesses; but of primary importance is the successful ring-fencing and refinancing of the
Parent company to provide a stable financial platform to enable management to concentrate on
renewing their successful outsourcing contract in the UAE, and also pursuing further opportunities with
their partners in the Middle-East region.