 Annual report 2003
6
Chairman's statement
Trading
I am pleased to report that the improvement in trading
conditions anticipated at the half year has continued
throughout the second half.
Turnover for the year totalled  110.6m, compared with
 104.5m in 2002. At the previous year's exchange rates,
turnover would have been  2.9m higher at  113.5m. Strong
growth was experienced in the Asean region and Japan and
in Central and Eastern Europe where the Group has been
concentrating its recent marketing focus. All product divisions
showed growth over the previous year, in particular, Laser
scale, Encoders and Spectroscopy products.  
Operating profit for the year ended 30th June 2003 was
 15.6m, an increase of 16% over the previous year. Profit
before tax rose by 11% to  17.8m (2002  16.1m). Profits
after tax amounted to  14.3m (2002  15.2m), after reflecting
a more normalised tax rate following release last year of tax
provisions no longer required. Earnings per share were 19.7p
(2002 20.9p).
The Group has maintained its customary high level of liquidity
with cash balances of  37.2m (2002  35.7m).
Manufacturing
Investment in the Group's manufacturing and assembly
processes continues. The first phase of the transfer of
assembly activities and finished goods stores to our site at
Woodchester has been successfully concluded. Phase 2
development will begin in August this year which will enable
the transfer of the Machine Shop to Woodchester from 
New Mills.
Marketing
The Group has continued its strategy of overseas market
development and enhancing service to customers. New
subsidiaries have been established in Canada, Israel, Austria
and Sweden, the latter two already having commenced
trading. During the year, offices have been purchased in
Brazil, Sweden and South Korea, with a new office block in
Japan acquired since the year end. Our Russian subsidiary
has recently moved into new Moscow offices; our Spanish
subsidiary is due to move into new offices in Barcelona.
The Group has attended over 100 exhibitions, tradeshows
and seminars throughout the world, the largest number
attended by the Group in any one year. The Renishaw
website has been further developed and extended, with 
in excess of two thirds of a million visitors each year.
Appointment of non-executive directors
The Board is pleased to report that two additional non-
executive directors were appointed to the Board on 1st July
2003; David Snowden FCA aged 66 was a partner at KPMG
for 25 years, latterly acting as senior partner to KPMG in
South Wales. He retired from KPMG in 1993 and has
subsequently been a non-executive director and corporate
adviser to a number of companies. Terry Garthwaite FCA
aged 56 spent 4 years at Price Waterhouse in London before
working for Foseco Minsep plc and then joining engineering
group, Senior plc, as Group Finance Director. Since leaving
Senior in 2000, he has been providing consultancy services
whilst working with the Prince's Trust and the Support 
Group of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales.
They have both been appointed to the audit committee
where Terry is chairman and the remuneration and
nomination committee where David is chairman. John Deer
and Ben Taylor have stepped down from the audit committee
which now comprises only non-executive directors.
Research and development
Total research and development expenditure and associated
engineering costs during the year amounted to  20.2m of
which research and development amounted to  14.2m. 
This compares with the total research and development 
and associated engineering costs of  19.4m in 2002. Arising
from our R&D programme a number of new products have
continued to be introduced. During the year for example, the
Procera
 
Piccolo tooth scanner has been both successfully
developed for and sold to Nobel Biocare for the dental
market. In addition, the forthcoming EMO Exhibition in Milan
will see the official launch of a number of new products for
the machine tool market.
The Procera
 
Piccolo.
A Nobel Biocare advertisement
featuring the Procera
 
Piccolo. Mercedes-Ilmor
During the year Renishaw was
pleased to renew its technical
partnership with Mercedes-Ilmor
Limited, supplier of championship
winning Formula One race engines 
to Mercedes-Benz.
The renewed arrangement aims to
continue the successes of the earlier
agreement entered into between
Renishaw and Ilmor Engineering
Limited in November 1999. Despite 
a change of ownership in December
2002, when Mercedes-Benz took a
majority shareholding in Ilmor, and 
a rationalisation of its technical
partnership programme, the newly
named Mercedes-Ilmor decided to
maintain the partnership with
Renishaw as a result of the positive
contribution made by Renishaw
products to Mercedes-Ilmor's
manufacturing operations.
Renishaw will continue as the sole
supplier of probing systems and
machine tool performance testing
products with an increased focus 
on the field-testing of Renishaw's
innovative metrology products at
Mercedes-Ilmor's main manufacturing
site in Northamptonshire, UK.
Together, Mercedes-Ilmor, Mercedes-
Benz and McLaren have now won 33
Formula One Grands Prix.
Above left: Sir David McMurtry with 
Hans-Ulrik Maik, Mercedes-llmor's
Managing Director, signing the latest
partnership agreement.
Above centre and right: Mercedes-llmor's
manufacturing facilities at Brixworth,
Northamptonshire, UK.
Right: Mercedes-Benz FO110M engine
used to power Team McLaren Mercedes 
in the 2002 Formula One World
Championship.
Renishaw's non-contact tool setting
systems are used by Mercedes-Ilmor to
check for tool breakage during critical
machining operations.
Strain-gauge technology used in Renishaw's
MP700 inspection probe, gives Mercedes-
Ilmor the accuracy that they require in
automating set-ups on their high-precision
machine tools.
The QC10 ballbar allows Mercedes-Ilmor 
rapidly to check that their machines are
performing to specification before undertaking
expensive machining processes.
When a fully comprehensive calibration of
a machine tool is required, Mercedes-Ilmor
relies on the superior accuracy of Renishaw's
ML10 laser measurement system.
7 Annual report 2003
8
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure of  8.2m includes investment in new
plant and machinery and further development of the Group's
IT management information systems and R&D design tools,
compared with  8.9m in the previous year.  
Personnel
In a further demanding year, particularly following the recent
downturn, I must give a special mention to the staff throughout
the Group without whom Renishaw's achievements would 
not be possible.
Prospects and dividend
We have ended the year with trading conditions continuing to
improve.  There are some signs of more buoyant activity in
the world economy, we have a number of new markets to
develop and a number of new product introductions. Cost
controls remain strong with recruitment mainly confined to
areas of extra investment and new markets. We remain
confident of the Group's longer term continuing progress.
Your board proposes a final dividend of 11.36p per share,
giving a total for the year of 16.70p, an increase of 5% over
that for 2002.
Sir David R McMurtry 
CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng
Chairman and Chief Executive
23rd July 2003
Chairman's statement continued
1999
2000
2003
2002
2001
Shareholders' funds
107.7 109.3
97.1
85.0
 m
Engineering costs
% of 
sales
1999
2000
2003
2002
2001
Capital expenditure
8.9
10.7
11.7
9.6
9
6
3
12
 m
Land and buildings
Plant and vehicles
1999
2000
2003
2002
2001
19.4
18.4
14.7
12.2
15
10
5
20
30
20
10
40
 m
Other
Research and development
% of sales
105.2
20.2
8.2
Assembly hall, Woodchester. Lindisfarne Gospels
The British Library contains one of the world's foremost
collections of Anglo-Saxon decorated manuscripts
originating from both Britain and abroad, exemplifying
almost every significant script or school. In the past,
information on the materials used to compose the
illuminations has relied upon later written evidence such 
as artist instructions and pigment price lists. Until recently,
analysis of the pigments using non-destructive techniques
has been limited and so identification has largely been
done by visual inspection and recipe reconstruction, which
can be unreliable.
However, Professor Robin Clark and Dr Katherine Brown
of University College London, together with David Jacobs
and Dr Michelle Brown of the British Library, have
undertaken analysis of the Lindisfarne Gospels, using
Renishaw Raman spectroscopy and a fibre optic probe.
The Lindisfarne Gospels were written between 715 and
721 AD in honour of St Cuthbert, Bishop of Lindisfarne
who died in 687 AD.  
The original analysis of the manuscript in 1960 identified
lazurite pigments, which would represent the earliest
known use of these in an English manuscript and, by
implication, prove the existence of a trade route from what
is now north-east Afghanistan to Northumbria. The
investigations using Renishaw instrumentation revealed
that the blue pigment in the Lindisfarne Gospels is not
lazurite but indigo, probably made from the woad plant. 
Of the manuscripts studied so far by Raman spectroscopy,
the earliest work found to contain lazurite dates from
around 920 AD, significantly later than originally thought.
This investigation shows the improvements that can be
made to scientific and historical knowledge through the
non-invasive analytical techniques provided by Renishaw's
Raman spectroscopy instrumentation.
The RM Raman Microscope was used in
the Lindisfarne Gospel analysis.
9
Above: Carpet page and initial page from St. John's Gospel.
Below: the title page and spread from St. Mark's Gospel.