 Chairman's statement 06
Touching lives through metrology
Sir David McMurtry 
Chairman and Chief executive 
This last year has been the 
most difficult in the history of the 
Company, characterised by two 
different half year performances. 
The first half commenced with 
record first quarter results and  
a promising outlook for the year, 
followed by an unprecedented 
downturn in the ensuing period.  
We were forced to make hard 
decisions in order to position 
the business for this market 
environment, pending a return  
of better conditions.
The cost base had to be reduced to meet the new 
environment, whilst maintaining our commitment to 
customer service and new product development 
programmes. We had to take a number of measures, 
the most difficult and painful of which was a redundancy 
programme under which we had to lose 437 staff  
(20% of the group workforce) giving annual cost savings  
of  17m. In addition, staff worldwide accepted a voluntary 
pay reduction of 20%, equivalent to  1.25m per month, 
which continues until 31st December 2009, subject to 
possible additional payments to employees, dependent 
upon achievement of certain profitability levels.
In parallel there has been a programme to reduce other 
group overhead expenditure by  10m per annum and a 
continuing focus on the management of working capital, 
particularly inventory and debtors in order to sustain 
positive cash balances.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2009
07
OPERATING RESuLTS
There was a marked downturn in the second half of the year, 
with revenue reducing by some 37% compared with the 
previous year. Revenue in the second half was  68.9m (2008 
 109.5m) and total revenue for the year amounted to  171.2m 
(2008  201.2m). This is a 15% reduction compared with 
the previous year, which would have been a 23% reduction 
at previous year's exchange rates. Revenue, with the sole 
exception of our spectroscopy products which showed good 
growth, was heavily reduced in all product lines and all main 
geographical sectors were affected.
Operating profit for the year before exceptional items was 
 6.0m (2008  37.3m) after deducting a doubtful debt provision 
of  2.6m (2008  0.4m) and  1.5m in respect of legal costs 
relating to patent infringement litigation in the United States 
(2008   nil) which was settled in the second half of the financial 
year. At previous year's exchange rates this operating profit 
would have been a loss of  1.9m.
After the costs of the redundancy programme amounting to 
 4.1m and the inclusion of the share of profits of associates of 
 0.3m and other financial income of  2.5m, profit before tax 
amounted to  4.7m compared with  43.0m for the previous 
year. Earnings per share were 4.9p (2008 47.6p).
BALANCE ShEET
Capital expenditure during the year amounted to  11.0m (2008 
 5.3m), reflecting capital commitments made in the first half of 
the year. 
At the year end, net cash balances were  20.5m compared 
with  38.2m at 30th June 2008. Group inventory stood at 
 29.2m (2008  34.2m) and total trade debtors were reduced 
to  24.1m (2008  42.8m). Trade creditors have reduced from 
 12.7m to  6.6m with no extension of supplier payment dates.
PENSION FuND
At the year end, the revaluation under IAS 19 accounting 
standard of the Group's defined benefit pension funds,  
which are closed to new members and for future accruals 
to existing members, resulted in an increase in the deficit to 
 22.5m from  11.1m at the previous year end, reflecting poor 
investment performance and changes to assumptions for 
liability calculations.
QuEEN'S AWARD
The Company has received the Queen's Award for Enterprise: 
Innovation 2009. The Award has been granted for the 
Company's OMP400 ultra-compact high-accuracy touch probe 
which is used for 3D measurement on computer numerically 
controlled machine tools. This is the Company's thirteenth 
Queen's Award.
EMPLOyEES
I would like to thank all our employees for their steadfast 
support during what has been the most challenging and 
demanding period in our history. They have responded 
magnificently to all challenges and difficulties both in the  
UK and overseas.
Researchers conceive of new Raman use
Researchers at the University of Edinburgh, UK and the University of 
California, USA are working on techniques of non-destructively testing 
the DNA of sperm and then selecting the best sperm for IVF . Currently 
most tests that identify damaged DNA require the sperm to be broken 
open prior to chemical analysis, thereby destroying the sperm. The 
new research using a Renishaw inVia Raman microscope could one 
day lead to a new technique that solves the problem.
Above: Graduate student Ruby Raheem using a Renishaw inVia 
Raman microscope for her research on sperm DNA testing. Photograph 
courtesy of The University of Edinburgh, UK.
Renishaw was granted a Queen's Award for Enterprise: Innovation 
2009 for the OMP400 probe, which is ideally suited for use on small to 
medium machines. It combines miniaturisation and new advances in 
strain-gauge technology, both pioneered by Renishaw. Chairman's statement continued 08
Touching lives through metrology
Renishaw plc
INvESTING FOR ThE FuTuRE
As in prior economic downturns Renishaw continues to  
make heavy investment in future products and this year  
we are accelerating our new product development to help 
mitigate the impact of the recession. 
A number of new metrology products and applications have 
been added to our established product lines during the year 
with a number of significant products destined to come to the 
market in the coming year. The metrology additions have been 
supplemented by the licensing of the source code for the Metris 
Camio CMM software and the acquisition of the business and 
assets of Qualis Service GmbH, a Germany CMM service and 
calibration business, both of which enhance the development of 
the Group's CMM retrofit activity.
Developing from our existing metrology base has been an 
increasing commitment to healthcare:
 	 Our	new	range	of	dental	pr oducts	was	intr oduced	at	 
the International Dental Exhibition in Cologne, Germany  
in March.
 	 W e 	 acquir ed 	 a 	 75% 	 shar eholding 	 in 	 Schaer er 	 Mayfield 	 	
Neuromate AG (now renamed Renishaw Mayfield SA), 
a company based in Switzerland, which is a leading 
manufacturer of surgical robots, adding to our portfolio 
of products for the neurosurgery market. These products 
were introduced at the Fifteenth Quadrennial Meeting of the 
World Society of Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery 
held in Toronto, Canada at the end of May with very 
encouraging results.
 	 The	Company	has	incr eased	its	investment	in	PulseT eq	
Limited by 25% to a 75% shareholding. PulseTeq Limited 
specialises in the development of coils for the enhancement  
of images from MRI scanners.
Renishaw incise  milling machine
A bench-top machine which can typically mill 15 to 30 ceramic 
frameworks from a single billet of zirconia, including bridges of up 
to 8 units in size. With an average cutting time of just 30 minutes 
per unit, a single milling machine is sufficient to meet the needs of 
most laboratories.
incise  CAM software allows you to specify the location on the 
zirconia billet where the dental framework will be made.
35 60
05 06 07 08 09
14.9
13.2
9.7
5.3
11.0
Capital expenditure
  million
Land and buildings
Plant and vehicles
35 60
05 06 07 08 09
25.4
29.3
31.1
35.4
35.9
Engineering costs
  million
Other
Research and development
% of revenue
Left: MODUS  software. 
This new metrology software 
application enables a 
complete retrofit upgrade, 
supplied and supported by 
Renishaw. With full support to 
the entire range of sensors, 
including the award-winning 
REVO
 
, MODUS  provides 
a powerful platform for 5-axis 
measurement. Annual report and accounts 2009
09
PROSPECTS
It is difficult to predict how long the current market conditions 
will prevail. Current activity levels are showing some signs of an 
improvement, but we do not anticipate returning to profitability 
until the second quarter of this financial year. The Group, with 
its strong balance sheet, portfolio of existing products and 
new products in development (broadening into healthcare), 
remains strongly positioned to meet all present demands and to 
respond to any increase in activity as it develops. We continue 
to face our long-term future with great confidence.
DIvIDEND
The Company paid an interim dividend of 7.76p per share in 
April which was waived by the executive directors. However, 
in view of the exceptional adverse trading conditions we have 
encountered and the consequential impact on our results, we 
do not propose to pay a final dividend for the year. 
We will continue to monitor our performance and intend to return 
to paying dividends when conditions improve. The level of such 
dividends and the policy for the future will be determined by the 
financial performance of the Group as it recovers.
Sir David McMurtry
CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng
Chairman and Chief Executive
29th July 2009
Above: Planning for precision.	neur o	 	inspir e 	ster eotactic	neur osurgical	planning	softwar e	is	both	functional	
and intuitive and designed with present needs in mind as a starting point, but ready when new emerging 
therapies arrive, be it drug or stem cell delivery. Note: neuro   inspire  is currently available in Europe only.
Image guided robotic neurosurgery. The neur o	  mate
 
 stereotactic 
robot is intended to be used in a operating suite for the spatial 
positioning and orientation of a tool holder or a tool guide in order  
to guide standard surgical instruments.