 RESTORE PLC
|
REPORT &  ACCOUNTS
Chairman's statement
05
Results
I am pleased to
report a strong
performance by
Restore plc, in a
year in which it
made significant
progress in
delivering on its
ambitious plans for
growth. During
2011, the
Company benefited
from the underlying
resilience of its core records management business
while making four acquisitions and a joint venture
investment that increased the scale of our operations
and developed Restore plc into a much broader-based
provider of UK office services.  For the year to 31
December 2011, adjusted profit before tax (before
exceptional items, amortisation and share-based
payment charges), was  4.6 million, a year-on-year
increase of 77% (2010:  2.6 million). Adjusted operating
profit increased to  5.2 million (2010:  3.3 million) on
turnover which rose to  34.8 million (2010:  27.7
million). Earnings per share on an adjusted basis were
up 57% at 6.9 pence (2010: 4.4 pence). I am also
pleased to announce the Board's recommendation of a
maiden dividend of 1p per share.
Trading
Restore, our records management business, continued
to trade strongly, with recent acquisitions performing
ahead of expectations.  Turnover was  13.8 million
(2010:  10.7 million) and operating profit was  5.4
million (2010:  3.9 million). Organic growth was steady
reflecting the stable demand for our services. The
majority of the increase in profit derived from the six
acquisitions we have made over the last eighteen
months, including the integration of the records
management business of Sargents. We have been very
successful in integrating these acquisitions and sharply
increasing their operating margins.
Sargents, the office relocation business acquired in April,
recorded operating profit of  0.3 million on a turnover of
 3.2 million. Sargents' core business will benefit
significantly from working with Harrow Green, the UK
leading office relocation business we acquired in
February 2012.
DCS, our scanning business, operated at breakeven
(2010:  0.1 million loss) on turnover which fell to  1.8
million (2010:  2.0 million). Costs continued to be cut to
achieve this result. 
Restore Shred, the start-up secure shredding and
recycling business in which we took a 50% interest in
October, recorded a small loss.
Peter Cox, the damp-proofing and timber treatment
business, recorded an operating profit of  0.8 million
(2010:  0.5 million) on turnover of  16.0 million (2010:
 15.0 million). This continued an impressive turnaround,
with changes implemented over the last two years
dramatically improving performance with little help from
external market conditions.
The Business Review which follows gives a fuller
assessment of our businesses' performance and
prospects.
Corporate transactions
Four acquisitions were made in the year, as well as the
investment in a 50% share of Restore Shred.
- In April, we acquired Sargents, a London-based office
relocations and records management business, from
the receiver for  0.5 million. This took the Group into
the attractive office relocation market as well as adding
additional records management activity to Restore.
- In June, we acquired Management Archives, a Leeds-
based records management business for  0.7 million.
This gave us a records management presence in
Northern England.
- In August, we acquired Paterson Data Management, a
Glasgow-based records management business, for
 0.6 million, giving us a records management
presence in Scotland.
- In October, we acquired a 50% stake in
Thoroughshred, subsequently renamed Restore Shred,
for  0.3 million. This London-based business took us
into the secure shredding and recycling business, a
logical addition to our other office services. We have
an option to acquire the remaining 50% from the other
shareholders in three years' time.
- In November, we acquired Brunswick Document
Management, a Middlesbrough-based records
management business, for  1.2 million, extending our
coverage to North-East England.
Sir William Wells
Chairman RESTORE PLC
|
REPORT &  ACCOUNTS
Chairman's statement (continued)
06
These acquisitions provide comprehensive coverage of
mainland Britain for our customers. With Sargents and
Restore Shred, we entered the office relocation and
shredding markets respectively, both of which fit into our
strategy of expanding the office services we provide to
customers. We have proven skills in integrating
businesses and increasing profit margins through
intelligent use of our existing infrastructure, such as
maximising space utilisation across our storage sites.
Subsequent to the year-end, we acquired Harrow
Green, a national office relocation business, for  6.3
million and assumed  5.6 million of its net debt. With
the addition of Harrow Green, Restore plc became
comfortably the market leader in office relocation with
coverage of all of mainland Britain. Harrow Green also
has a significant records management business, taking
Restore to number three in the UK records management
market and providing new locations in Birmingham and
Manchester. As part of the transaction, we also acquired
a 50% stake in Relocom, an IT relocation services
business.
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was  11.6 million (2010:  12.3
million). In June, a new facility was arranged with
Barclays providing total debt funding of up to  16.5
million.
In July, an equity placing of  4.5 million (after expenses)
was completed at 65p per share to fund acquisitions
and pay off outstanding loans from Geraldton, our
largest shareholder.
The acquisition of Harrow Green subsequent to the
year-end was funded by an increase in debt facilities
and an equity placing of  8.5 million at 75p per share.
Current debt facilities are c.  21.5 million, enabling
scope for further acquisitions without the need to raise
additional equity.
Dividends 
Your Board is recommending a dividend of 1.0p per
share, payable on 31 July 2012. This is the first dividend
the Group has paid and it is the Board's firm intention to
follow a progressive dividend policy. In October, the
Company obtained permission from the High Court to
undergo a capital reduction to enable a dividend to be
paid.  Distributable reserves at the year end were  16.0
million (2010: deficit  38.3 million).
Board 
In May, Harvey Samson joined the Board as Group
Finance Director, a position which had been vacant
since 2009. Harvey had been working with the Group
since April 2010, managing the turnaround at Peter Cox.
His extensive experience as both a Chief Executive and
Finance Director in both quoted and unquoted services
businesses has been hugely valuable in delivering our
growth.
People 
Restore's management philosophy is centred on the
decentralisation and empowerment of our operating
companies. Our strong financial performance and ability
to grow is dependent on the capability, attitude and
enthusiasm of our people at every level of our
operations. Our business has changed rapidly and I am
delighted at the career opportunities this creates,
including for those joining the Group through
acquisitions. I thank all our people for their commitment
over the last year and look forward to them sharing in
the success of the Group. 
Strategy
We have spent the last 18 months building our presence
in the office services market. This has taken us from
being a small Southern England-based business,
centred around a profitable records management
business to a national records management company,
which we believe to be the third largest in the UK. We
are also the UK market leader in office relocation with
national coverage, and now offer closely related services
in shredding, scanning and IT relocation. All these
businesses have a similar channel to market, enabling
us to leverage individual business's customer
relationships across the Group. While the businesses
operate autonomously, our internal systems monitor
customers across the Group to ensure this is more than
an abstract idea.
We continue to look to increase our presence in this
market, growing both organically and by acquisition. We
focus on businesses whose main strength lies in long-
term customer relationships where switching suppliers is
neither desirable nor practical, and aim to provide
exceptional levels of service based around the
determination of our people to excel. Our performance
over the last two years indicates that the services we
supply are constantly required so that our earnings
stream is highly visible and less exposed to demand RESTORE PLC
|
REPORT &  ACCOUNTS
Chairman's statement (continued)
07
cycles. We intend to grow our existing businesses and
to look at related markets where these market
characteristics exist.
Outlook
Our businesses continue to trade in line with
expectations and our records management revenues
remain robust. The markets we serve benefit from a
steady demand irrespective of the general economy. We
are confident that office services, particularly in South-
East England, will remain buoyant.  
The acquisitions made over the last 18 months continue
to be strongly earnings enhancing and their performance
has generally exceeded our expectations. We are
confident that the acquisition of Harrow Green,
completed subsequent to our year end, will make a
substantial contribution to our current year performance.
Harrow Green's management is starting to implement
structural changes to the business which we believe will
be highly effective in achieving the levels of profitability
appropriate to a market leader.
We have excellent business visibility and are well
positioned to continue to broaden the scale and scope
of the Group's activities. The Board remains encouraged
by the trajectory of the Group and looks forward to
another year of strong progress in 2012.
Sir William Wells
Chairman     RESTORE PLC
|
REPORT &  ACCOUNTS
08
In line with our stated strategy, Restore is
playing a key role in the consolidation of its
sector and is now believed to be the third
largest records management company in the
UK by sales and the second by profitability

 