 RESTORE PLC
| REPORT &  ACCOUNTS 2012
06
Chairman's
statement
Results
I am pleased to report
another strong
performance by your
Company and
significant progress in
the execution of our
strategy. Our markets,
particularly records
management, remained
robust during the year,
and we continued to
grow profits at the same
time as securing market
leadership in UK office
relocations and rationalising our operational structure.
For the year to 31 December 2012, adjusted profit before
tax, exceptional items, amortisation, discontinued activities
and share-based payment charges was  6.2 million, a year-
on-year increase of 68% (2011:  3.7 million). Adjusted
operating profit increased to  7.1 million (2011:  4.4 million).
Turnover from continuing activities was  43.3 million (2011:
 18.8 million), with the substantial year-on-year increase
primarily reflecting the acquisition of Harrow Green. Peter
Cox, which we sold in August, has been treated as a
discontinued activity. Earnings per share on an adjusted
basis were up 72% at 7.4 pence (2011: 4.3 pence). With a
recommended final dividend of 1.1 pence, the total dividend
is up 50% at 1.5 pence.
The Company now has two operating divisions, Document
Management and Office Relocation, both of which are
focused on office services.
Trading
The Document Management division performed well, with
our core records management business continuing to
demonstrate the attractive financial traits of its operating
model. The division's turnover was  21.0 million (2011:
 15.6 million) and adjusted operating profit was  7.5 million
(2011:  5.4 million). Restore Records Management delivered
a further increase in revenue on an organic basis, reflecting
the underlying growth in the market for our services.
However, the majority of the increase in turnover and profit
derived from acquisitions made over the last eighteen
months, including the integration of the records
management business of Harrow Green. The increase in
operating margin reflected the benefits of our increased
scale. Restore Shred, of which we now own 100%, made a
small loss but is expected to grow and operate profitably
henceforth. Restore Scan, formerly known as DCS, made a
small profit. It has now been fully integrated into the
Document Management division and will benefit from lower
overheads as a result.
The Office Relocation division now primarily comprises the
Harrow Green business, acquired in March 2012. The
division's turnover was  22.3 million (2011:  3.2 million) and
adjusted operating profit was  1.2 million (2010:  0.3 million).
This was an acceptable performance in a period when the
business was undergoing considerable post-acquisition
rationalisation. The low operating margin also reflected, as
expected, a weak third quarter (traditionally the strongest
trading period) resulting from low levels of activity in the key
London market around the Olympics and Paralympics.
Following the year-end, Sargents, our original office
relocation business, has been integrated into Harrow Green. 
The Chief Executive's Review gives a fuller assessment of
our businesses' performance and prospects.
Corporate transactions
Four acquisitions were made in the year, as well as the
acquisition of the outstanding 50% share in Restore Shred.
- In March, we acquired Harrow Green, the UK market
leader in office relocation, which also had a sizeable
records management business. The initial consideration
was  6.1 million with up to a further  1 million payable in
2015. As part of the transaction, we assumed  5.6 million
of debt.
I am pleased to report another strong performance by
your Company and significant progress in the execution
of our strategy 
SIR WILLIAM WELLS
CHAIRMAN RESTORE PLC
| REPORT &  ACCOUNTS 2012
07
Chairman's
statement (continued)
- In May, we acquired ROC Relocations, a London-based
relocation business, from the receiver for  0.2 million.
- In August, we acquired M&L Document Destruction, a
secure shredding and recycling business based in
Middlesbrough, for  0.3 million. This increased the
geographic coverage of Restore Shred and strengthened
our operational management in this niche.
- In October, we acquired Archive Solutions, a Manchester-
based records management business, for consideration of
 2.6 million, greatly strengthening our presence in North-
West England.
On 20 March 2013, we announced the acquisition of File
and Data Storage, a national records management business.
This was acquired from OfficeTeam, the stationery supply
company for  6.1 million, with a potential additional payment
of  0.15 million.  This further increases our coverage and
market share in our leading activity.
Discontinued Activities
Peter Cox, the damp treatment and timber proofing
business, was sold in August for a total consideration of
 3.6 million. It had been a non-core business which we had
successfully restored to profitability over the previous two
years. Its turnover in the period of ownership during the year
was  8.7 million (full year 2011:  16.0 million) and operating
profit was  0.2 million (full year 2011:  0.8 million). The year-
on-year figures reflect the seasonal nature of the business,
whereby profits are weighted towards the second half of the
year. 
Following the disposal, the Company is now focused on
office services.
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was  17.8 million (2010:  11.6
million), including  4.0 million of invoice discounting. Year
end debt facilities are  21.4 million.
In February, we raised  8.5 million through an equity placing
at 75p per share to fund the acquisition of Harrow Green. In
October, we raised  3.0 million through an equity placing at
93p per share to fund the acquisition of Archive Solutions.
On 20 March 2013, we announced a placing of  7.0 million
after expenses to fund the acquisition of File & Data. Combined
with an increased borrowing facility of  3.5 million, this
provides us with additional funding for other acquisitions.
Dividends
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.1 pence,
payable on 9 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on
14 June 2013. The total dividend for the year is 1.5 pence, a
50% year-on-year increase. It is the Board's firm intention to
follow a progressive dividend policy.
The expansion to
national coverage
Three years ago, Restore plc's
office services activities were
confined to five locations all in
Southern England.  We can
now offer our services across
all of mainland Britain from
twenty eight locations, ranging
from Glasgow to Cornwall. RESTORE PLC
| REPORT &  ACCOUNTS 2012
08
Chairman's
statement (continued)
Board 
In June, Adam Councell joined the Board as Group Finance
Director. He was previously Finance Director of Rentokil
Initial's UK business services division. He replaced Harvey
Samson, who subsequently acquired Peter Cox. Sir Paul
Stephenson, the former Commissioner of the Metropolitan
Police Service, also joined the Board as a non-executive
Director during the year.
I welcome Adam and Sir Paul to the Board. I also thank
Harvey for his significant contribution to the Company and
wish him and the team at Peter Cox well for the future.
People
In the business services sector, strong relationships between
customers and suppliers sit at the heart of most successful
enterprises. These relationships are between people, rather
than organisations, and exist at all levels. The other key
element is consistent and effective delivery of services; while
this is partly about having the right systems in place, it is
also about the willingness and enthusiasm to help the
customer, which derives from the people delivering the
service. For these reasons, our Group's success is tied
inextricably to the capability, attitude and enthusiasm of our
people. Our strong financial performance and ability to grow
reflects these qualities, and in turn it creates exciting and
rewarding career opportunities. I thank all our people for their
commitment over the last year and look forward to them
sharing in the success of the Group. I also welcome those
who have joined us through acquisitions during the year.
Strategy
The Company is now wholly focused on UK office services.
The areas in which we operate and seek to operate have
certain characteristics:
- A strong element of recurring revenues
- A degree of operational complexity which enables good
margins to be achieved
- A similar channel to market: typically through our
customers' facilities managers
- Switching suppliers is neither desirable nor practical for
customers
- Scope for cross-selling the other services we offer 
Our growth strategy is based on deepening and
broadening . Deepening  means increasing our UK market
share in the areas in which we operate. This is shown by our
significant growth in the records management sector,
achieved primarily through acquisitions, where we have
moved from being eighth in the market to, on our estimates,
second in less than three years. In Office Relocation, our
acquisition of Harrow Green has taken us to a position of
market leadership. Broadening  means adding additional
services which complement our existing activities. Over the
last eighteen months, we have started Restore On-line, an
online data back-up business, which complements our
physical data tape storage activities. Through two small
acquisitions, we have also entered the secure shredding and
recycling market, which is a logical extension of our records
management activities.
As a Group, our strategy is to draw on the strength and
breadth of our existing customer relationships to provide
existing customers with additional Group services. All of our
operating companies now share the same Customer
Relationship Management system and all customer-facing
staff are required to use this as their primary customer
database. We are now generating a significant volume of leads
and new business from this source, and we expect it to
contribute materially to our organic sales growth going forward.
A key to our strategy is also to ensure that all our customers
do not move their business elsewhere.  This is achieved by
providing a service delivery that is highly valued by our
customers.  This is our top operational priority in all of our
businesses including those we have acquired.  Our
customer retention record is testament to our success in
achieving this.
Outlook
2013 has started in line with our expectations. Our
Document Management division continues to perform
strongly and we expect an improvement in operating
margins in our Office Relocation division on the back of a
lower cost base.
We will continue to pursue our strategy of organic and
acquisitive growth and we look forward to making further
strong progress this year.
Sir William Wells
Chairman    
9 April 2013 RESTORE PLC
| REPORT &  ACCOUNTS 2012
09
Chairman's
statement (continued)