 02 Annual report & accounts 2008 The ReThink Group plc
Chairman's and Managing 
Director's statement
In our first year as a listed business 
we are delighted to report that the 
Group has made good progress.
Our Strategy
Focus on higher value business  
streams as opposed to high volume  
low margin business.
Operate a very flexible business model 
with non-core functions outsourced to 
third party specialists.
Continue to build on the solid 
geographic platform.
Retain and attract highly experienced 
staff who want to adopt the ReThink 
ethos, values and business model.
On behalf of the Board of The ReThink 
Group, we are pleased to report the 
Company's first full year results since 
we became a public company. The 
Group listed on the AIM market in 
June 2008, a move which, we believe 
supports our strategy in relation to 
organic growth and future acquisitions. 
In our first year as a listed business we 
are delighted to report that the Group 
has made good progress. We 
achieved strong organic growth in our 
core businesses and the acquisition of 
KeyPower Consultants Limited (KPC ) 
which was completed in December 
2007 was successfully integrated into 
the Group during the early part of 
2008. However we have not been 
immune to the severe economic 
climate, which started to impact on the 
business in the second half of the year. 
The development of our construction 
business, ReBuild, required significant 
investment during the first half of 2008. 
Due to the rapidly changing nature of the 
construction sector we have had to 
focus our efforts on areas within this 
market that have been less affected by 
slowing demand. In doing so, we have 
had to reduce head count in this division 
and realign the skills of the team that 
continues to service this market. In line 
with our expectations of deteriorating 
market conditions in the second half of 
2008, we have taken swift action to 
reduce the cost base and focus on  
cash management of this division. 
Nevertheless, the results of this division 
had a significant negative impact on the 
overall results of the Group for the year. 03 Annual report & accounts 2008 The ReThink Group plc
challenging trading conditions across 
the UK recruitment market during 
2008. Demand for permanent 
recruitment services has slowed and 
because of the current economic 
uncertainty good candidates are not 
moving onto new positions so readily.  
The Group is experiencing healthy 
demand for contractors and as a result 
our contract numbers have grown. 
Strategy
The Group has a committed strategy 
of organic and acquisitional growth 
across the whole business. 
We will continue to consider expansion 
into other high value recruitment niches 
and IT consulting. Research is under 
way to identify new markets. We have 
two small teams in place covering the 
Human Resource markets from our 
office in London and a small team has 
been established in Bristol covering 
senior grade Finance professionals. 
Financial Highlights
Despite extremely challenging conditions 
the Group continued to invest and grow in 
2008. We achieved strong revenue growth, 
up 54% from 2007 , to  43.4m and strong 
Gross Profit growth to  1 2. 1m from  7 .9m 
in 2007 , an increase of 52.6%. Profit from 
operations before exceptional listing costs 
was down  0.39m, a decrease of 29.9%. 
Exceptional costs of  4 1 4k relate to the 
Group's AIM flotation in June 2008. Net 
assets have increased to  2.07m from 
 1. 16m in the previous year and net cash  
at the year end was  5 15k. The Company 
has renewed its main borrowing facility  
for a further twelve months at increased 
levels to cover its predicted working  
capital requirements.
We have continued to focus on our 
core markets and strengths, whilst 
introducing additional revenue streams 
both organically and through 
acquisitions.
The Group rebranded ReThink 
Professional Services Limited as Aiimi 
Ltd, and a new company called 
ReThink Professional Services Limited 
(RPS ) was formed with the intention 
of providing Recruitment Process 
Outsourcing (RPO ) and Managed 
Services for clients. We have secured 
a large, long term programme of work 
for RPS with one of the UK's leading 
retailers, a contract that was awarded 
in 2008 for three years. 
Market Overview
The uncertain macro-economic 
environment has resulted in more 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs )
The KPIs relevant to the business are set out below.
KPI 2008 2007
Revenue  43,389k  28,144k 	   	 	 I n c r e a s e s 	 i n 	 r e v e n u e 	 a r e 	 t h e 	 r e s u l t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ' s 	 i n v e s t m e n t 	 i n	
additional offices, the addition of KPC and the development of the 
Group' s historical base.
Gross Profit  12,089k  7,920k 	   	 	 Ma rg in 	 gr ow th 	 is 	 i n 	 l in e 	 wi th 	 g r o wt h 	 i n 	 G r o up 	 r e ve nue .
Gross Profit % 27.9% 28.1% 	   	 	 De sp ite 	 d if ficu lt	 ec on omi c 	 co nd iti on s 	 to wa r d s 	 t he 	 en d 	 of 	 t he 	 y ea r ,	
gross profit levels have been largely maintained.
Conversion rate 7.6% 16.5% 	   	 	 Op er ati ng 	 pr ofit	 ( as 	 a dj ust ed 	 fo r 	 li sti ng 	 c os ts) 	 a s 	 a 	 % 	 of 	 g r o ss	
margin. The fall in conversion partially reflects the investments 
made in new business operations but also has been impacted by 
the adverse market conditions towards the end of the year.
Productivity  92.9k  110k 	  	 P r od uc tiv ity 	 l ev el s 	 h ave 	 b ee n 	 a f fe cte d 	 by 	 i nv est men t 	 i n 	 ne w	 
(Gross profit per fee earner)     businesses and the lower level of fee billings in the last quarter of 
the year.
Fee earner to support staff ratio 87.2% 85.7% 	   	 	 Re fle cts	 t he 	 G r o up' s 	 co nt inu ed 	 in ve stm ent 	 i n 	 fe e 	 ea rni ng 	 s taf f.
Head count 149 84 	   	 	 A v e r a g e 	 h e a d 	 c o u n t 	 i n c r e a s e 	 i s 	 m a i n l y 	 d u e 	 t o 	 t h e 	 i n v e s t m e n t s 	 i n	
additional geographical presence together with acquisition of KPC. 04 Annual report & accounts 2008 The ReThink Group plc
Chairman's and Managing 
Director's statement
continued
In just under four years, ReThink has 
built a strong national presence with four 
major hubs in London, Manchester, Bristol 
and Birmingham all well established.
Review of operations
The Recruitment businesses are 
ReThink Recruitment Solutions Ltd, 
KeyPower Consultants Limited, ReBuild 
Recruitment Services Ltd and Integritas 
Ltd. Together these recruitment 
businesses have built a strong national 
presence in Manchester, London, 
Bristol, Birmingham, Southend, Leeds 
and Exeter.
2008 saw growth across all the regions. 
However, permanent revenues declined 
across all businesses in the latter part  
of the year. The Group's business is 
spread across a variety of sectors, 
thereby reducing exposure to individual 
sector pressures.
Aiimi Limited
Our business and consulting division, 
Aiimi Limited (previously known as 
ReThink Professional Services Limited) 
performed well in 2008 and continues 
to contribute highly profitable revenue 
to the Group. Aiimi has expanded its 
reach into its principal long term clients 
and has successfully added new blue 
chip companies to its growing 
customer base, although the second 
s u c c e s s f u l	m a j o r	c o n t r a c t	i s	n o w	
expected to end in 2009. During the 
year Aiimi expanded its consulting 
operation through the development of 
a Business Transformation practice 
offering business consulting, change 
management and education services.
Aiimi's technical consulting practice has 
established technology partnerships with 
industry leading software companies 
including Callidus Software, Merced 
Systems & Xactly Corporation in Sales 
Performance Management and IBM 
(Cognos), Microsoft & Microstrategy in 
Business Intelligence. Aiimi is now 
leveraging the synergies between The 
ReThink Group's recruitment businesses 
and its technology and consulting 
business and is seeing a strong growth 
in sales pipeline whereby existing 
customers seek cost savings on 
technology implementations traditionally 
delivered by higher cost Tier1 System 
Integrators and Consulting organisations.
Acquisitions
During the year the Group integrated 
KPC. KPC is now equipped to offer a 
greater range of services and has 
benefited by expanding into the 
permanent recruitment sector.
The acquisition of Proveya MEA FZCO, 
a company in the Middle East, was 
completed after the year end for 
consideration of up to  230k, in line with 
o u r	s t r at e g i c	o b j e c t i v e	o f	i n t e r n at i o n a l	
expansion. This will enable the business 
to venture further into Middle East 
markets and we are now billing across 
the Gulf region. The development of 
this region has been given to Simon 
Church, Group Development Director. 
Dividend
No dividend is to be proposed for 
2008. The dividend policy remains  
to pay a progressive sustainable 
dividend at a level that is prudent in 
light of the cash resources needed by 
the Group, and when market 
conditions improve.
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share declined  
to 0.09p (2007: 1.1p), 
Our Clients
We pride ourselves on our strong 
client relationships and have continued 
to see strong client retention and 
growth across the Group. Whilst some 
o f	o u r	m a j o r	a c c o u n t s	h a v e	
experienced reduced activity, we 
continue to invest in maintaining these 
relationships and the strength of our 
client base will position us well for 
when economic conditions improve.
Our People
The continued progress shown by the 
Group in 2008 is a function of the efforts 
from all of the staff throughout the 
Group. We would like to take this 
opportunity to thank the fellow members 
of the Board and all our colleagues for 
their hard work and commitment 
throughout 2008. Our key asset is our 
people; their hard work, expertise and 
dedication in a challenging environment 
has been integral to success of the 
business over the past year.
Outlook
We anticipate 2009 will be a difficult 
year across most industry sectors and 
our exposure to both recruitment and IT 
consulting makes it difficult to forecast 
in the medium term. We remain 
committed to delivering profitable 
results whilst also ensuring that we are 
well positioned to take full advantage 
when the market recovers. We will 
maintain tight cost controls without 
compromising on our high quality 
service and remain committed to 
focusing on specialist markets and will 
continue to follow our strategy of 
organic growth and adding acquisitions 
of complementary businesses.
John Sadiq        Jon Butterfield
Chairman Managing Director