 4 Rexam Annual Report 2008
year. Our intention remains to be free cash flow positive after the 
payment of dividends in 2009.
Net debt at year end was  2.6bn. The favourable foreign exchange 
rates benefit our profit lines but are detrimental to our net debt level 
when translated into sterling, given our currency debt profile where 
around 80% of our net debt is in US dollars. The level of debt also 
reflects the acquisition of Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker, 
which completed on 31 January 2008, as well as a number of one-
off working capital outflows in the second half of the year, some of 
which we expect to reverse in 2009.
Interest cover was 3.5 times which is slightly lower than last year, 
but Rexam remains a cash generative business.
In June 2008, we successfully completed the refinancing of the 
 370m sterling bond due in March 2009 with $775m of bonds 
issued in the US market. Our next major round of financing arises in 
the final quarter of 2010 although we are targeting to secure renewal 
of this funding during the first half of 2009. In all, we currently have 
 3.3bn of committed bond and bank facilities available to the 
Group, a headroom of  0.7bn versus year end net debt.
Positioning our business
Consumer packaging is a relatively defensive industry and although 
it is certainly not immune to downturns, Rexam's position within it 
offers a degree of resilience and performance in times of economic 
weakness. Our results in 2008 reflect the organisation's pragmatism 
and its resolve to act swiftly and focus on the levers which it can 
influence to secure the profits and cash flow of the business going 
forward. Significant pricing initiatives, continued cost control, the 
closure of plants to ensure capacity and demand stay in balance, 
and the hedging of raw material costs are just some examples of 
where we took strong, positive and timely action.
The rapid and successful integration of the OI Plastics and Rostar 
acquisitions provides further evidence of the strength and skills of the 
leadership team. In both cases, synergies are on track.
Exceptional costs arising in 2008, mainly from the plant closures 
mentioned above (detailed on page 34), totalled  42m before tax.
Focusing on people
In times such as these, people and organisations come under huge 
pressure. Obviously we will do what is necessary to manage our 
cost base effectively and we have already taken a number of tough 
decisions with plant closures and redundancies. However, during 
Chairman's Statement
Last year we said that we were looking forward to returning to 
profitable growth in 2008 and I am delighted to report that we 
fulfilled that expectation, despite facing unprecedented global 
financial and economic volatility.
Overall Rexam delivered a good set of results as we continued 
to pursue our strategic objectives. In common with many companies, 
we experienced a year of two halves, where a strong start to the 
year was followed by a progressively weaker second half as market 
conditions grew tougher. However, given our global spread, we 
benefited from favourable exchange rate movements which resulted 
in the Group producing record sales and profits.
The details of our performance can be found in the Business Review 
on pages 10 to 37 but, in brief, Group sales rose to  4.6bn 
including the benefit of recent acquisitions and foreign currency 
exchange, an increase of 28% on 2007. Underlying operating profit, 
which excludes amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, 
exceptional items and discontinued operations, increased 32% to 
 466m. At Group level, margins improved from 9.8% to 10.1%.
Free cash flow generation was negative at  128m. This is largely 
a result of the capital investments made to secure the foundations 
of our business going forward and capture profitable growth. The 
investment was made mostly in our European Beverage Can business. 
We have been planning for a significant reduction in 2009 capital 
expenditure for some time and in light of the current economic 
environment we have further reviewed our spending for the current 
Rexam delivers
 and returns to profi table growth
Peter Ellwood Chairman Rexam Annual Report 2008 5
these times it is critical that we do all we can to manage and retain 
our talent pool and protect the foundations of our business so that 
we are positioned for profitable growth.
During 2008 we revitalised a number of our people processes as 
we continue to strengthen the organisation and create an even more 
compelling working environment. The introduction of a more 
integrated approach to performance and talent management is just 
one example of the work undertaken.
We have also reviewed and re-engineered the key components 
of our executive reward package to ensure that it supports both our 
core values and our business strategy. The aim of the new reward 
package, which we have discussed with our major shareholders, 
is to recompense both business and individual performance, to 
reinforce the need to focus on key company objectives and to align 
the management rewards with the interests of shareholders. Subject 
to approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2009, we are 
planning to adopt a new long term incentive plan arising out of the 
same review. The key differences from the existing plan and the way 
in which the new plan forms part of Rexam's overall reward package 
are explained in detail in the Remuneration Report. 
Changing the Board
At the AGM in May 2008, Rolf B rjesson, my predecessor as 
Chairman, retired. Rolf was the architect of the modern Rexam. His 
vision and determination guided Rexam to become what it is today - 
a leading global consumer packaging company. On behalf of the 
Board and, indeed, all of Rexam, I would like to thank him for the 
work he did, first as Chief Executive and then as Chairman, and to 
offer him our very best wishes for the future.
In December 2008, we announced that Mike Buzzacott would retire 
at the AGM on 7 May 2009 after three consecutive terms on the 
Board. His insight and specialist knowledge have been of great help 
to the Board and particularly the Audit Committee. I would like to 
thank Mike for his contribution over the last nine years and we also 
wish him every success. His place on the Board has been taken by 
John Langston, Finance Director of Smiths Group plc. John will take 
on the role of chairman of the Audit Committee when Mike retires. 
Given John's commercial and financial experience, the Board and 
I are confident he will make an excellent contribution, both as a 
non executive director and as the Audit Committee chairman. 
At the start of 2009, Bill Barker, Executive Director and Group 
Director Beverage Cans, left the Company following a restructuring 
Consumer packaging is a relatively 
defensive industry and although it is 
certainly not immune to downturns, 
Rexam's position within it offers a degree 
of resilience and performance in times 
of economic weakness. 
of the Beverage Can leadership team. I would like to thank Bill for 
his drive and determination in making our global Beverage Can 
operation a truly world class manufacturing organisation. He leaves 
the legacy of a strong team and a strong platform on which to build 
further. We wish him well as he returns home to a new life in the 
United States.
Increasing dividends
After considerable thought in view of the current economic 
environment, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 
12.3p per ordinary share, which, including the interim dividend of 
8.7p, represents an increase of 5% on last year. Subject to approval 
by the shareholders at the AGM on 7 May 2009, the dividend will 
be paid on 2 July 2009 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 
5 June 2009. Given the economic uncertainty and the emphasis on 
prudence, any further dividend increase in the short term will be kept 
under close review.
Looking ahead
This has been my first year with Rexam and it has certainly been 
an interesting one. I have seen at first hand the high calibre of our 
leadership team and I have witnessed the enthusiasm, professionalism 
and dedication of our people during my visits to Rexam's businesses 
around the world. I have also met with customers and shareholders 
to understand their thoughts about Rexam. I am delighted to report 
that, overall, the feedback I received was extremely positive.
Rexam is a resilient business as proved by this set of results, but we 
are not immune to the global economic crisis, and trading in the 
second half of 2008 weakened as market conditions deteriorated. 
However, the Company is flexible and able to adapt to new, more 
challenging circumstances without compromising our vision of being 
the world's leading consumer packaging company.
We recognise that times are uncertain and that it is difficult to predict 
how the economic downturn will affect our trading in 2009 but we 
remain focused on generating cash and managing costs to underpin 
the progress we made in 2008.
Peter Ellwood 
Chairman
19 February 2009