 12 Rexam Annual Report 2007
Chairman's Statement
This is my final report to you as Chairman of Rexam 
as I will be stepping down at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) in May this year after twelve years 
with the Company.
2007 was a challenging year for Rexam. We 
delivered strong revenue growth from our continuing 
operations. As anticipated, the pressure of continuing 
high aluminium and other input costs and the weaker 
US dollar impacted our profit performance. In 
addition, a number of one off events, such as a  
strike in North America and a delay to the start up  
of a new Brazilian plant, as well as rising energy 
costs and a further weakening of the US dollar in  
the second half, made the year even more difficult 
than expected.
Leslie Van de Walle was appointed CEO at the start of the year  
and he took up the reins immediately. He and his leadership team, 
indeed the whole Company, focused on the areas they could 
influence - performance and delivery of the strategy. We reduced 
our exposure to the volatility of aluminium prices and worked hard  
to mitigate the anticipated increase in costs. In addition, we delivered 
cost and efficiency savings of  32m with Plastic Packaging 
contributing to almost half of these savings. Although the profit figure 
may disappoint, these results bear testimony to the strong  can do' 
culture that we have fostered in this Company. I would like to thank 
everyone for their enormous contribution and effort during the year.
2007 was also a year in which Rexam continued to execute  
its strategy to focus the business on higher growth, higher margin 
segments and emerging markets as demonstrated by the acquisition 
of OI Plastics and the divestment of the Glass business. In January this 
year, we completed the acquisition of Rostar, the Russian beverage 
can maker, consolidating our position in this high growth market.
We continued to invest in our existing operations, mainly in Beverage 
Cans, with unprecedented levels of capital expenditure in growth 
segments or growth regions. In some cases, as in Europe, it is to 
meet existing and anticipated demand; in others it is to realign our 
business to capture growth opportunities, such as in North America 
where we are converting standard can lines into specialty can lines. 
In both cases, we are always conscious of maintaining a good 
balance between capacity and demand. 
You will find full details of the Group's 2007 performance, including 
the statutory results, in the Business Review on pages 14 to 41. In 
summary, we delivered organic sales growth of 11% from ongoing 
operations with sales continuing the momentum of the last two years 
while underlying operating profit, which excludes exceptional items 
and discontinued operations, declined 6%. In addition to the sale  
of the Glass business, we were impacted by the translation of a 
weakening US dollar as well as a significant change in the wider 
economic environment. The cost of oil went up from US$65 to about 
US$90 per barrel, which had an impact on our freight, resin and 
energy costs. As mentioned, we also suffered an unexpected strike  
at nine of our US can making plants, and, in the second half, 
production delays to our new can end making plant in Brazil. 
Free cash flow generation of  24m was appreciably lower than  
last year (2006:  173m) largely owing to the number of capital 
investments we made to ensure that we have the capacity to capture 
future profitable growth opportunities.
Prior to the deterioration of conditions in global credit markets, we 
had already substantially refinanced our balance sheet with the issue 
of a Euro 750m subordinated bond at a reasonable cost. With 
interest cover of 3.7 times, we are comfortable with our borrowings.
Packaging and sustainability
Packaging was again in the spotlight during 2007, especially in  
the UK, with the press continuing to comment on excessive packaging. 
It was interesting to note that a UK government report in 2007 
revealed that consumer attitudes to  excessive' packaging have 
barely changed. According to this report only 12% of people 
regularly decide not to buy something because it had too much 
packaging. This is exactly the same number as in 2001.
As I said last year, packaging is what gets the beverage from the 
filler into your hand or the food from the farm to the fridge shelf as 
efficiently as possible. It sustains the quality of life that many of us 
take for granted. The safe delivery of food, drink, medicine and  
other goods is intrinsically linked to the quality of packaging. Studies 
consistently show that reduced packaging may lead to more product 
damage or more spoilage and could prove a false economy - both 
financially and for the environment. 
As a leading global consumer packaging company, we take our 
environmental responsibilities very seriously. Long term stakeholder 
value is our primary aim, so sustainability must necessarily be at the 
very heart of what we do. In manufacturing, reduction of energy and 
other utilities and emissions are not only good for the environment but 
they make us more efficient. We work closely with our customers and 
suppliers to reduce the amount of material we use in our various types 
of packaging, all the while ensuring that we maintain the integrity of 
the contents. We are involved in many packaging recycling schemes 
together with our customers, suppliers, retailers and local governments 
in the countries in which we operate. We promote packaging and 
packaging recycling through our trade organisations and through  
the support of local initiatives. Rexam Annual Report 2007 13
Changes to the Board
On 17 January 2007, Leslie Van de Walle became a director  
of Rexam and took over as CEO on 1 February 2007 when Lars 
Emilson retired from the Board. Leslie joined us from the Royal Dutch 
Shell Group where he was Executive Vice President of Global Retail. 
He has made a significant contribution to Rexam in his first year 
through his decisive leadership and I am confident that he will  
deliver shareholder value going forward. 
On 1 February of this year, Peter Ellwood joined the Board as non 
executive director and Chairman Designate and it is proposed that 
he succeed me following our AGM on 1 May 2008. Until recently 
Peter was Chairman of ICI, the global specialty chemicals company, 
and prior to that he was Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group 
PLC, a leading UK based financial services group. He has extensive 
experience in strategic business issues. His leadership and banking 
experience, along with his energy and determination, will complement 
our Board skills and we are delighted that he is joining us at this 
exciting time in Rexam's development.
Dividends
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.7p per ordinary 
share, which, including the interim dividend of 8.3p, represents  
an increase of 5% on last year. This is in line with Rexam's ongoing 
policy to increase the dividend payout by about 5% pa, provided 
that the financial resources are available and that underlying 
earnings growth continues as expected. Subject to approval by  
the shareholders at the AGM on 1 May 2008, the dividend will  
be paid on 3 June 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered  
on 9 May 2008.
Outlook
In 2008, despite the economic outlook and the inflationary input  
cost environment, we expect to see continued top line growth across 
our upgraded portfolio and as our investment in organic growth 
begins to bear fruit. We will realise the synergies from our recent 
acquisitions and continue to deliver savings through our focus on 
operational efficiency. As a result, we look forward to a return to 
profits growth in 2008.
In conclusion
It is now 12 years since I began my association with Rexam, first  
as Chief Executive and latterly as Chairman. During that time the 
Company has gone through a complete transformation and today,  
as a focused global leader in consumer packaging, it is a far cry 
from the conglomerate of 1996. A clear vision of what we wanted 
to achieve, and how we wanted to achieve it, helped keep us firmly 
focused and on track. It has been a stimulating and rewarding 
period in my life in which I have had the privilege to work with many 
outstanding people who have helped to make this transformation 
possible and to sustain it. These last three years have been 
particularly challenging in the face of dramatic increases in input 
costs and a weak US dollar but we have worked hard to 
compensate for these and to prepare us for the future. I leave the 
Company at the AGM confident that we have a robust machine for 
generating sustainable and profitable growth. We have two sizeable 
global businesses and strong market positions to take advantage of 
the considerable opportunities that the consumer packaging market 
has to offer. Our focus on operational excellence across the Group 
delivers substantial savings each year. Finally, in Peter and Leslie and 
his leadership colleagues you have an extremely capable team to 
take the Company into the next chapter of its story. I wish Rexam,  
its employees and shareholders continued success in the future.
Rolf B rjesson
Chairman
20 February 2008
Rolf B rjesson
Chairman
2007 was a year in which Rexam continued to execute 
its strategy to focus the business on higher growth, 
higher margin segments and emerging markets.