 Four years ago, we set  
out a plan to strengthen 
the foundations of this 
company and create  
a solid platform for  
the future. 
We highlighted three areas that were fundamental 
to achieving our aims: managing costs, optimising 
cash and improving our return on capital employed 
(ROCE). For the latter, we set ourselves a target 
of achieving a 15% ROCE by the end of 2013, 
and I am delighted to say that we have hit this 
target. During the period since 2010, we have 
also generated almost  940m in free cash flow 
and made restructuring and efficiency savings 
of c  195m. These notable achievements were 
due in no small measure to the application and 
initiative of our executive leadership team as 
well as the resilience and commitment of our 
people in what has been a challenging economic 
period. The proposed sale of the majority of the 
Healthcare business (see page 42) was further 
testament to the strength of the organisation.
On page 8 Graham Chipchase, the chief 
executive, sets out our plans for the Company  
as we seek to balance growth and returns. The 
board and I will continue to work closely with 
him in delivering on those plans.
The skills and determination of our people and the 
quality of our assets give us a great advantage, 
and we are committed to being the best beverage 
can maker in the world. Over the year I once 
again met many of our employees around the 
world and am reassured that the depth of their 
knowledge and their professionalism will help  
us to be the best.
The safety, health and wellbeing of all our 
employees is vital and an area the board follows 
closely. We remain one of the leaders in our 
industry in safety but it was disappointing that 
we made little progress in 2013 on reducing 
accidents and incidents at our workplaces. We 
have a concrete plan of action to re-establish 
momentum in this key area which, as a board, 
we will follow closely. 
NEW TO THE REPORT
Our annual report covers all aspects of our 
financial and non financial performance and aims 
to provide a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company's position and 
prospects. In addition to a section on how we 
identify, monitor and mitigate risks, we include  
a section on our business model, which explains 
how we create value. We demonstrate how  
key enablers of our strategy - manufacturing 
excellence; customer relationships; innovation; 
sustainability and our people - are supporting the 
development of the Company. We also provide 
you with an overview of factors driving our 
business and an understanding of how  
we are responding to them.
RIGHT BLEND OF  
SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES
One of my key responsibilities as chairman is  
to promote good governance which is critical  
in ensuring that we remain a successful and 
sustainable company. Integrity and trust are 
more important than ever in today's business 
world and during the year we believe we have 
maintained the high standards expected of us. 
The board has continued to focus on ensuring that 
the UK Corporate Governance Code's principles 
on leadership and board effectiveness are applied. 
In 2013, we conducted an external evaluation of 
the board and its committees and all directors 
received a formal annual performance evaluation. 
The experience was positive and our external 
reviewer reported that all directors had made 
reference to the board's open and transparent 
culture. Such a culture encourages a high quality 
debate and sophisticated levels of enquiry as well 
as an environment which is both challenging 
and constructive. Further details of the board 
evaluation can be found on page 51. 
Our board members bring important skills  
and experience to our organisation and this 
complements the skills of our executive team. 
Key to board success is ensuring that it has the 
right mix of non executive directors with a variety 
of experience and expertise to constructively 
challenge and support the executive team. The 
board was enhanced in June 2013 by the addition 
of Ros Rivaz. Her considerable technology 
experience and expertise in driving efficiencies 
in manufacturing processes and procurement in 
global organisations are of real value to Rexam. 
In May 2014, Jean-Pierre Rodier will step down 
from the board after eight years of dedicated 
service. His industry experience has been valuable 
in the progress we have made and I would like to 
thank him for his wise counsel and commitment. 
We expect to be in a position to announce a 
new non executive director at the AGM 2014, 
by which time we will also have appointed a 
new chairman of the remuneration committee.
My ambitions for the composition of the board are 
to broaden the range of expertise, experience 
and diversity to maintain the gender balance of 
at least 25% of board members being women.
Before I move to other matters, I would like to 
pay tribute to Rexam's former chief executive, 
Lars Emilson, who passed away in June 2013. 
Lars had a long and successful career in our  
can business culminating in his tenure as chief 
executive from 2004 to 2007 . He was a person of 
great integrity and a much respected and valued 
member of an industry to which he dedicated his 
working life. He will be remembered as one of 
the architects of Rexam and the modern global 
drinks can industry.
Chairman's statement
Stuart Chambers 
Chairman
Dividend
The board is proposing a final 
dividend of 1 1.7p per share, making  
a total dividend of 17 .4p for the year. 
This 14% increase is in line with our 
dividend policy to have a dividend 
cover in the range 2.0 to 2.5 times 
underlying earnings, and reflects the 
board's continuing confidence in the 
Group. Subject to shareholder 
approval at the annual general 
meeting on 2 May 2014, the final 
dividend will be paid on 3 June 2014 
to shareholders on the register at 
close of business on 9 May 2014.
Final dividend
11.7p per share
to be paid on 3 June 2014
Total dividend
17.4p per share
(+14% vs 2012)
02 Rexam Annual Report 2013 ALIGNING INTERESTS
We plan for long term success at Rexam and the 
principles of our management incentive schemes 
(detailed on page 62) reflect this. While the 
variable elements of executive remuneration are 
centred on the transparent measures of profit and 
cash generation as well as personal performance 
objectives, the bias is towards long term, share 
based plans to prioritise longer term investment 
decisions and align management's interests with 
those of shareholders. We have strengthened 
this alignment over the years by introducing 
shareholding requirements for the executive 
leadership team.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES
The remit of the remuneration committee, 
chaired by Jean-Pierre Rodier, is to ensure that 
remuneration remains aligned with our strategy. 
(See page 62.) In particular, we continue to focus 
on long term value creation and this requires that 
we reconsider regularly the detailed structure  
of remuneration and directors' pay. During the 
year the remuneration committee conducted an 
externally facilitated review of our remuneration 
principles and policies and we are satisfied that, in 
volatile economic conditions, the current structure 
provides appropriate incentives for our senior 
management to balance growth with returns 
and achieve best value for shareholders.
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS
We have demonstrated a disciplined approach to 
capital allocation and will continue to manage 
our business in the best interests of shareholders. 
Returns to shareholders are an established priority 
for Rexam and the dividend is a core element of 
total shareholder returns. This year we raised our 
dividend per share by 14%. This increase reflects 
the board's confidence in the Group's future and is 
in line with our dividend policy to have a cover in 
the range 2.0 to 2.5 times underlying earnings.
We have consistently stated that if we cannot 
invest in projects with good returns then we are 
committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. 
In January 2013, following the sale of our Personal 
Care business, we completed a return of cash of 
45p per existing ordinary share. (See page 81 
and note 28 to the financial statements.) The return 
of cash was accompanied by a consolidation of 
the existing ordinary shares in the ratio of nine 
new ordinary shares for every ten existing 
ordinary shares held.
Taking into account ordinary dividends and  
the return of cash in 2013, total cash returns  
to shareholders have been c  0.9bn over the 
last four years. (See page 76 for development of 
total shareholder returns.) In 2014, we plan to 
return a further  450m following the sale of the 
major part of our Healthcare business, which we 
expect to complete in the second quarter of 2014.
SUPPORTING OUR  
CUSTOMERS' AMBITIONS
Packaging is an integral part of modern day 
living. It protects and preserves. It enables 
efficient distribution and reduces waste from 
spoilage. Many aspects of the lifestyle that 
many of us take for granted is predicated,  
in part, on the availability of a sustainable 
packaging supply chain. Packaging has always 
been under scrutiny and many of our customers 
are committing to ambitious targets in the 
sustainability of their packaging. As one of their 
core suppliers, we are supporting them in these 
endeavours. It is important that they know they 
have a partner who can drive change and who 
will collaborate with them on their journey as 
they seek sustainable transformation within  
their supply chains.
OUTLOOK
Following the sale of our Healthcare business, 
we will be a focused global beverage can 
maker. We have a strong balance sheet, a clear 
focus on the fundamentals of the business and 
skilled and committed people. I am confident 
that, even in a tough economic environment, we 
are in good shape to continue to make progress 
in delivering value to our shareholders and  
other stakeholders.
Stuart Chambers 
Chairman
20 February 2014
1 2
The skills and 
determination of our 
people and the quality  
of our assets give us a 
great advantage, and we 
are committed to being 
the best beverage can 
maker in the world.
1
 Employees at our Cairo 
plant (which the board 
visited in June 2013)  
were undeterred by the 
civil unrest that affected 
the country. Staying in 
hotels close to the plant 
and taking other beyond 
the call of duty measures, 
they kept the plant up  
and running safely to 
ensure can supplies  
to our customers.
2
 In 2013 we produced  
our first beverage cans at 
the new plant in Bel m in 
northern Brazil. The plant 
has an installed capacity 
of 0.8bn cans per year. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Rexam Annual Report 2013 03