 4 Associated British Foods plc
George Weston Foods. In spite of this level of capital
spending and investment, the net cash inflow was  186m
including  124m generated by the sale of businesses. This
strong performance reflects continuing management focus
on the control of capital expenditure and working capital.
Following an interim valuation of the main UK pension
scheme earlier this year, your board agreed with the Trustee
company to resume contributions.  8m has been charged
against profits reflecting the contribution for the year. 
This action was taken, although the scheme remained fully
funded, in the context of prevailing market conditions. 
Dividends
The directors have declared a second interim dividend 
of 9.85p, which will be paid on 18 February 2004 
to shareholders registered at the close of business on 
16 January 2004. Together with the first interim of 4.75p
this makes a total of 14.6p for the year, representing an
increase in the total dividend of 10%. In my interim report 
I explained that for many years the first interim dividend 
had not changed but commencing with this financial year
the board would consider increases to the first interim as
well. We plan to continue this policy in the future with the
second interim dividend expected to form substantially the
larger of the two dividends.
Board changes
I referred in my interim report to Harry Bailey's retirement 
as Chairman last December after 40 years' service with the
company, 23 of those as a director. I can do no better than
repeat the comments I made to you in April.  His contribution to
this company in that time was immense. His incisive thinking
and sure judgement were very greatly valued by his colleagues
on the board. We wish him a long and happy retirement.' 
In May of this year, it was announced that Jeff Harris had
been appointed as a non-executive director. Mr Harris is
chairman of Alliance UniChem plc, having previously been
chief executive. He is also a non-executive director of Bunzl plc.
His personal qualities and business experience will enable
him to contribute strongly to ABF.
Roland Smith retired from the board at the end of the
financial year in September. Sir Roland, who was senior
independent director, had been a director since December 1994.
He had an exceptionally wide experience of business and
industry. This experience linked to his formidable intellect
was of great benefit to us over his period on the board. 
We are very grateful to him for his input over the past nine
years. John MacGregor has taken on the responsibilities 
of senior independent director. 
Employees
The results that the group has reported are due to the skills
and effort of over 35,000 people worldwide. They have faced
the continuing competitive pressures and have adapted
successfully to the changes affecting the group. I am deeply
grateful to them all for their achievements.
Outlook
Looking forward it is certain that the competitive
environment faced by our businesses will continue to be
difficult, regardless of general economic conditions. In spite
of this there are opportunities for many of our businesses 
to develop their market position through product improvement
and continued attention to operational efficiency. Backed by
strong cash flow and a sound balance sheet, we will develop
our businesses for the long-term by investing in these
opportunities and adding new businesses. In the coming
year we expect to report further growth.
Martin G Adamson Chairman
Chairman's statement continued Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5
Another strong performance from the group saw operating
profit, before amortisation of goodwill, grow by 14% to  450m.
Group sales rose by 8% to  4,909m. This was a particularly
good performance as growth came from across all of our
business segments. 
This year's growth can be seen in a broader context if we look
at the results for the group since the financial year 1998/9.
Adjusted operating profit over this period increased from  326m
to  450m this year, a growth of 38% or 8% per annum.
Throughout this period, although the profitability of British
Sugar, with its sales limited by quotas, remained broadly flat,
our other businesses increased their profitability by two thirds.
While delivering this consistent growth, our businesses have
continued to generate excellent cash flow. In the last year,
cash flow generated after capital expenditure but before
acquisitions and disposals was  292m. Despite spending
major sums on capital investment and targeted acquisitions
over the last five years, net cash funds of  1,238m at the
end of this financial year were  247m higher than at the
beginning of the financial year 1998/9 (after adjusting for 
the payment of the special dividend of  448m in May 1999). 
Our proven ability to increase profits and at the same time
generate strong cash flow for further investment should give
our shareholders confidence for the future. As well as a
robust balance sheet and growth track record, our business
continues to build a range of strong market positions at the
same time as broadening its geographical base, particularly
in North America and Asia.
The future will see us continue to build on those parts of our
business that put forward clear growth strategies. We will invest
heavily in support of these strategies and, where appropriate,
acquire businesses that fit well with these growth plans. 
Chief Executive's review
Our proven ability to increase
profits and at the same time
generate strong cash flow 
for further investment should
give our shareholders
confidence for the future.
03
02
01
00
99 326
351
395
450
340
Adjusted operating profit  m 6 Associated British Foods plc
Acquisitions grab the headlines, but we are less interested 
in the headlines than in ensuring that, when we spend 
our money, it is our shareholders who benefit in the short,
medium and long-term, rather than just the shareholders 
of the selling business. The management team is ambitious
to grow the business and sees acquisitions as an important
feature in this growth. However, the timing of any transactions
will be based solely on opportunity and suitability, rather
than any desire to move quickly for its own sake. Nevertheless,
our search for suitable acquisition candidates is ongoing 
and it has been encouraging to see the beneficial effect 
that recent acquisitions have had on our business.
In the US, the acquisition of Mazola and a strong stable 
of foodservice brands have enabled ACH to move forward
despite a weakening in the market for less differentiated
commodity oils. The ACH supply chain capability, as well 
as the marketing strength that has been built around these
acquired brands, will provide a strong base for further growth
in North America. In speciality hot beverages, the acquisition
of Ovaltine now provides us with a stronger international
presence, particularly in Asia. This presence will prove an
even better platform for Twinings which already has a strong
international growth record and which we are supporting over
the next year by capital investments aimed at significantly
increasing its production capacity and efficiency.
This financial year also saw us acquire the minority interests
of George Weston Foods, our Australian business. After a
number of difficult years, this business is clearly benefiting
from a simplification of its focus. Its head office has been
slimmed down commensurate with the businesses' needs and,
with the sale of our biscuit business and the restructuring
of our cake operation, we now have a business that can
concentrate on growth. 
As part of our investment for growth, the coming year will
see a significant increase in the amount of resources spent
on marketing initiatives and new product development. This
will include support for healthy eating brand extensions for
Ryvita, reinforcement of Kingsmill's growth in the UK bread
market and new products to reinforce SPI's position in US
non-sugar sweeteners. Capital projects will be aimed at
increasing differentiation where possible as well as improving
our operational efficiency. One example of this will be the
completion of Westmill's new factory in Manchester which will
not only enable the manufacture of a range of microwaveable
ethnic products for the retail market but also improve the
efficiency of noodle manufacture.
Primark continues to make a major contribution. This business
is totally dedicated to providing customers with the best
possible value products which are sold under its own brand
labels. Primark is run by an extremely experienced and
focused team of people who are dedicated to retailing and 
to building their business. Their 7% like-for-like sales increase
in the year is impressive by any measure. One of the major
challenges over the next year will be its search to find
appropriate stores in the many towns and cities where we
are not yet represented and we have increased the resource
dedicated to finding these stores.
This year has seen a further streamlining in the number 
of businesses in our portfolio. Our UK glass business and US
rice business were profitable but along with our loss-making
Australian biscuit interests were unlikely to prosper within our
group. The sale of our third party British flour milling interests
was particularly beneficial in that it enabled us to retain a very
strong core milling capability which is now fully integrated
into our bakery business providing a simple, dedicated flour
supply chain. This is of great value to us in a highly competitive
baking industry which operates on low margins and so
requires a lean cost base and maximum innovation. 
Nothing ever stands still for long and we will continue to
evaluate our portfolio of businesses but, at this stage, we have
confidence that all the major sectors of our business can fulfil
their role in providing strong returns for our shareholders.
British Sugar provides good returns but growth is constrained
by EU production quotas. Changes to the European sugar
regime are expected from 2006 which could adversely affect its
profitability although the outcome of the current deliberations is
not yet known. We expect that the new arrangements will still
provide for farmers to continue to grow sugar beet profitably
and for efficient companies to have the opportunity to make
a return on the heavy investments that have already been
made in this industry.
The management team of British Sugar has always
appreciated that the sugar regime could be changed at any
time. With this in mind it has worked hard to become the
lowest cost processor of beet sugar in Europe as well as
making strides to develop an efficient operational base in 
Chief Executive's review continued