 2
RingProp plc Annual Report 2005
I am pleased to present the third annual chairman's
statement to the shareholders. This year has seen 
significant positive changes at RingProp with the
commencement of our sales initiatives, the strength-
ening of our market position and investment in both
product development and the infrastructure of the
company. The new Chief Executive, Gary Mullins, 
has very considerable marine industry experience 
and is transforming your Company into a marketing
led organization backed with a focused and 
competent design team to bring an exceptional 
and innovative product to market.  
Progress to date
Marketing and distribution efforts have continued
apace, highlighted by the recent appointments of 
distributors for RingProp in major markets. Product
development resources have been supplemented
leading to improved designs and increased productivity
in the design process. We were pleased to be able to
appoint Gary Mullins as chief executive in January
2005 and following which there was a successful
fund-raising.
Marketing and distribution
As with any innovative product seeking market traction,
the establishment of an effective distribution network
is critical. This task has occupied a great deal of time
in the last year as a necessary precursor to achieving
meaningful revenues. Clearly, before reputable 
distributors make commitments to the RingProp they
have had to be convinced not only of the product's
operating effectiveness, but also of the ability of
RingProp to offer a sufficiently broad and credible
product range. As demonstrated by recent announce-
ments, the company has been successful on both
counts. The breadth of range available is important as
the variety of boat and engine combinations in use is
very extensive and each different application requires
a specific propeller. The testing programmes underway
both at our research centre in Australia and with our
UK distributor, EP Barrus, will further enhance our
understanding of how each RingProp in the range
addresses the market. The company is now focusing
its sales and marketing efforts on the 2005/06 season.
The company has recently announced the appointment
of distributors in Canada, United Kingdom, Australia,
and New Zealand supplementing the distribution
structure already established in the USA. This series 
of appointments, following significant on-water 
Chairman's statement
testing of the product, is a positive independent
endorsement of RingProp. The distributors with whom
we have chosen to partner are well established 
companies with significant presence in their respective
markets. EP Barrus, our UK distributor, is the exclusive
distributor for Mariner/Mercury outboards in the UK
and the Republic of Ireland. Furthermore EP Barrus
supply, service and test engines for the UK Ministry 
of Defence and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution.
Austral Propellers are currently rolling out the range
of RingProps in Australia. They are a significant 
distributor and manufacturer of propellers in Australia
with over 65 years in the industry and have welcomed
the RingProp with enthusiasm. All our new distributors
have many years of experience in the marine industry
and have been involved in introducing new, innovative
products in the past. These are key markets for
RingProp. Further announcements will be made of
new distributor appointments as other geographic
markets are added with particular focus on the rest 
of the Americas and Europe.
RingProp recognizes that generating excitement and
pull through at the dealer and consumer level is
needed to drive sales. To this end the company now
has a set of dealer and consumer literature and is
rolling out instore displays to dealers across the USA.
A series of boat trials for journalists in the USA has
also taken place and as a result of these, several 
positive articles have appeared in consumer and trade
magazines. The company has also started a trade
advertising campaign supplementing the already 
significant commitment to both trade and consumer
boat shows. The level of enquiries stemming from this
activity has been encouraging and it now remains to
broaden the range of the RingProp offering to meet
the requirements of the consumer. Our application
testing programmes are underway and this information
is fundamental to dealers in their advice to the 
end customer.
The company has been represented at major boat
shows and trade events across the world with our
strongest presence in the United States and the UK.
RingProp exhibited at the two largest trade shows in
the world, IBEX in the USA and METS in Amsterdam.
In addition RingProp took stands at the National Marine
Propeller Association of America show and the Miami
Boat Show. We also shared stand space with EP Barrus
at the Southampton Boat Show in the UK. 3
RingProp plc Annual Report 2005
There has been significant interest shown in the 
product and efforts are ongoing to develop relation-
ships with consumers, dealers, distributors, journalists
and OEMs. In recent months the company has
received several enquiries from boat builders which
look promising. In June we announced that the
Australian Defence Force (ADF) has a serious interest
in RingProps in stainless steel. Following a period of
intensive design and testing the ADF has now approved
the final design and will be placing an order in the
near future. 
Product Design and Development
Our design team, based in Melbourne, Australia, 
has continued to deliver effective product through 
an integrated Computer Aided Engineering and 
prototyping process. We now have 6 propellers in
production, 3 production tools underway and a further
7 designs nearing completion. Two further patent
applications have been made in the year relating to
the design and manufacture of aluminium propellers.
These applications contribute to the arsenal of expertise
at RingProp and will act as a further barrier for any
potential competitors.
Additionally we have supplemented our design and
development team, bringing further hydrodynamic,
production and structural design experience as well 
as 3D computer modeling and analysis capability to
the company. We have also recruited experienced
boat drivers dedicated to testing the products on the
water. This further investment will help the company
broaden the product range in the future to respond
to the wide variety of applications demanded by 
the market.
Furthermore we are working with the Propeller Injury
Avoidance Council, headed by the US Coast Guard,
to raise our profile and demonstrate the real benefits
of the RingProp design.
Board Changes and EGM/AGM
Earlier this fiscal year Mr Don Hoult, CEO of the 
company before resigning in October 2004, requested
an extraordinary meeting with resolutions to replace 
the board. He proposed similar motions at the Annual
General Meeting on 7 December 2004. As reported 
at the time and in the Interim Report, Mr Hoult's 
resolutions were defeated and the board wishes to
thank shareholders again for their support.
On January 7th the appointment of Gary Mullins 
was announced. He has many years experience in the
marine industry which has proved of great benefit to the
company and is evident in the success in establishing
the distribution network.
Financing
As reported in the Interim Report, your company is in
the process of developing a range of propellers that
can be marketed to the marine industry. During this
development period expenses exceed income as 
the company invests in product development and
marketing infrastructure. The company raised  2.8m
net of costs in February of this year to meet the cash
needs of the business. This issue of new shares and
the change of ownership of the interests of Mr Hoult
have resulted in an increase in the number of 
institutional investors on the share register.
Financial Review
The results for the 12 months to 30 September 2005
show a loss of  1.90m. The cash balance at the 
period end was  2.09m.
The board recognizes the importance of the careful
control of costs and conservation of cash in this
important stage of the company's growth.
No final dividend has been declared.
Prospects
The company will continue to expand the product
range over the next twelve months so that the 
necessarily broader assortment of propeller/boat 
combinations can be addressed allowing the company
to target a greater proportion of the market more
effectively. The expansion of the sales network will
continue with the addition of distributors in new 
geographical markets. As stated above, significant
resources and funds are focused on the sales and
marketing effort to provide dealers with the necessary
information and marketing tools to allow them to sell
the RingProp into the market. Furthermore specific
volume applications will be targeted with boat
builders and other organizations such as defence
forces, sailing schools and environmental groups.  
The main selling season for the propeller industry 
in the northern hemisphere, the company's most 
significant target market, is in the spring, and the
company anticipates reporting on sales performance
at that time.
Denis Mulhall
Chairman
21 November 2005