 4 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report
2007 was another record year for Rio Tinto characterised by
continuing strong demand and prices for our metals and minerals, a
change in chief executive and the transformational acquisition of
Alcan. Once again Rio Tinto's consistent strategy, focused on value
creation and business excellence, delivered significant returns for
our shareholders and major benefits to the countries and
communities in which we operate.
The purchase of Alcan, announced in July and completed in
October created a world leader in aluminium. Alongside this major
acquisition we continued to invest heavily in our existing business
with a programme totalling US$5.0 billion, further strengthening
our platform for future production and earnings growth.
The Alcan acquisition, and the many other initiatives which the
new executive team launched in 2007, further demonstrated the
strength and depth of Rio Tinto's managerial capability to deliver
value to shareholders.
Results and dividends
The Group's underlying earnings in 2007 were a record
US$7,443 million, one per cent above 2006. Net earnings were
US$7,312 million compared with US$7,438 million in 2006. Cash
flow from operations increased 15 per cent to a record
US$12,569 million.
The total dividends declared for 2007 of 136 US cents per share
represent an increase of 31 per cent over the 2006 dividends. We
have committed to further increases in the dividends of at least
20 per cent in each of 2008 and 2009. This underpins our
confidence in the growth of our business and is a strong signal of
our belief in the strength of future demand and prices. We have
always said that our priority for excess capital after meeting our
investment in profitable growth is the ordinary dividend, and we are
pleased to reinforce this commitment to our shareholders.
Our growth potential is further evidenced by our planned capital
expenditure in 2008 and 2009 of US$9 billion in each year,
including the commitments we have made to completing Rio Tinto
Alcan's growth projects. This indicative programme will, of course,
be subject to rigorous appraisal of each investment.
Strategy
Our acquisition of Alcan was fully consistent with our long 
standing strategy. We remain focused on large, long life, low 
cost resources capable of delivering superior returns across the
economic cycle. Alcan's extensive global asset base has among the
lowest cost aluminium smelters in the world and is an industry
leader in production technology and self generated energy,
particularly hydro-electricity. This will be important in a carbon
constrained world.
Creating value for shareholders is Rio Tinto's primary objective
and the addition of Alcan enables us to capture value from growing
aluminium demand alongside our established leadership positions
in iron ore and copper.
Sustainable development
A successful business is one that is sustainable. It is one that
maintains long term profitability by pursuing value creating projects
which recognise the importance of good social and environmental
outcomes. Moreover, I believe making our business sustainable is
about recognising and managing the full spectrum of risk, thereby
making the best opportunities available to us.
The value of this approach was demonstrated in the agreed
transaction to acquire Alcan. Our positive reputation for social and
environmental responsibility was welcomed by the Alcan board and
led to the Government of Quebec readily agreeing to Rio Tinto
continuing Alcan's commitments to social and economic
development in Quebec.
For our part we recognised the strategic advantage of expanding
our position in aluminium, a recyclable metal which, in the case of
Rio Tinto Alcan, is produced with a high proportion of hydro-
generated electricity.
Our joint venture with BP to seek cleaner uses of coal through
Chairman's statement
Chairman's statement
Paul Skinner Chairman
U54670 pp4-pp9  5/3/08  23:49  Page 4 5 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report
Chairman's statement
production of hydrogen energy coupled with storage of carbon
dioxide underground reflects similar thinking. Our reputation
supports our position as the developer of choice in Guinea where we
are investing to develop a major iron ore project.
We were accepted into the FTSE4Good index in the UK after its
policy committee decided to include companies involved in the
production of uranium. Rio Tinto has maintained membership of
the Dow Jones Sustainability World index since its inception in 1999
and has been an active member of the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development and the International Council on Mining
and Metals (ICMM), whose members are committed to superior
business practices in sustainable development.
Board and management developments
As you know, Tom Albanese succeeded Leigh Clifford as chief
executive in May 2007. We thank Leigh for his many years of service
to Rio Tinto, and its predecessor companies, including the last seven
as chief executive. He contributed much to creating Rio Tinto's
platform for the future and we owe him a lot. As his successor, Tom
has a long and proven track record in Rio Tinto and has made a very
strong start in his first year as chief executive.
Following the acquisition of Alcan we were pleased to welcome
Yves Fortier and Paul Tellier to the board as non executive directors,
and Dick Evans, chief exective of Rio Tinto Alcan, as an executive
director.
Yves joins the Nominations committee and the Committee on social
and environmental accountability. Paul joins the Audit committee and
the Remuneration committee. This strong representation from Canada
will provide important continuity in the integration of Alcan and
brings valuable new perspectives to the board.
As announced at the 2007 annual general meetings, Sir Richard
Sykes, currently the senior non executive director, will retire at the
conclusion of the 2008 annual general meetings after ten years on
the board. Richard has made a highly valued contribution to
Rio Tinto over the period based on his prior experience of leading a
major global company and across the technology field. We thank
him for that. Andrew Gould, currently chairman of the Audit
committee, will become the senior non executive director on Sir
Richard's retirement and will become chairman of the Remuneration
committee. Sir David Clementi will replace Andrew as chairman of
the Audit committee. These changes will take effect at the conclusion
of the 2008 annual general meetings.
Ill health led to the resignation of Ashton Calvert from the board
in November and we were deeply saddened to hear of his death
shortly afterwards. Ashton joined the board in 2005 following a long
and distinguished career in the Australian foreign service. He made a
major contribution to Rio Tinto and provided valuable insights across
a range of major strategic issues, notably in relation to our businesses
in Australia and Asia. He was a wonderful colleague.
Forward outlook
We are seeing a dramatic change in the world's centres of economic
power, with rapid growth, urbanisation and industrialisation in
many parts of the developing world. We expect a large part of the
world's population - billions of people - to move through
increasingly metal intensive phases of economic development. This
will transform our industry and underpin future growth in markets.
Commodity markets are entering the fifth straight year of
growth with mineral and metal prices at levels well above their long
term average. Projections for Rio Tinto's main product groups - iron
ore, aluminium and copper - suggest that demand could potentially
triple over the next 25 years.
While it is premature to say that the current price cycle has
peaked, we are mindful of short term risks associated with the
expected slowdown in the US economy. However, the US is now
somewhat less important in world commodity demand than it was
five years ago. Our analysis suggests a sharp slowdown in the US
would have only a modest impact on growth in China and India.
In the short term, with low commodity stocks and a likely
continuation of supply side challenges, we expect solid global
economic growth, led by China, to support strong increases in
demand for most metals and minerals during 2008 and 2009.
Approach from BHP Billiton
In November Rio Tinto received an unsolicited approach from BHP
Billiton proposing a combination of the companies. This was fully
considered by the board and rejected on the basis that it
significantly undervalued Rio Tinto's assets and future prospects.
On 6 February 2008, BHP Billiton announced pre-conditional
takeover offers for Rio Tinto of 3.4 BHP Billiton shares for each
Rio Tinto share. The board gave this careful consideration and
concluded that the offers still significantly undervalue Rio Tinto.
The board unanimously rejected the pre-conditional offers as not
being in the best interests of Rio Tinto shareholders.
The offers, while improved, still fail to recognise the underlying
value of Rio Tinto's high quality assets and prospects. Our plans are
unchanged and will remain so unless a proposal is made that fully
reflects the value of Rio Tinto. Meanwhile we will forge ahead with
our stated strategy.
Our people
As I hope this message has demonstrated, 2007 was an important
year for Rio Tinto and, following a number of significant
developments, I believe the Group is even more strongly positioned
to deliver value for shareholders in the future. Managing major
strategic initiatives places strong demands on management and they
have responded with great resilience. In strong markets meeting the
demands of customers, and developing new projects within tight
timetables and budgets, places considerable pressure on every
individual in the Rio Tinto organisation. Our record results in 2007
are very much a product of the commitment, dedication and hard
work of all our people across the world. On behalf of the board and
you, our shareholders, I thank them for all they have done to deliver
success in another record year.
Paul Skinner Chairman
U54670 pp4-pp9  5/3/08  23:49  Page 5