 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc  Annual report 2011
2
Business review
generated in the broader economy. As we grow in scale and strength, 
these effects are multiplied. Innovation driven by Rolls-Royce has 
generated wider societal benefits over many years. Engineering 
breakthroughs pioneered by this Group have had wide applications in 
fields as diverse as medical research and the automotive industries. 
Engineers and scientists trained by Rolls-Royce have gone on to make a 
significant contribution across enterprise and academia, while our growth 
will create future employment for many of the brightest young scientists 
studying at schools and universities around the world today. This is why 
advanced economies depend so critically on successful enterprises like 
Rolls-Royce and why it is of such importance that their wider contribution 
to society is recognised. As a global business we recognise that to stay 
competitive we need to attract, retain and develop the best talent from 
the greatest range of people worldwide. Our Global Diversity Steering 
Group reinforces our commitment to promoting diversity and equality 
throughout the Group and creating an environment in which each 
individual has the opportunity to realise his or her full potential.
The UK Government recently outlined a number of recommendations  
to improve gender diversity in UK boardrooms. We support these 
recommendations and are committed to making demonstrable  
progress by 2015. 
During 201 1, more than 400 young graduates joined Rolls-Royce, from more 
than 25 countries. In addition, 295 people joined our apprentice schemes.  
It is a tribute to the quality of our training that around fifty per cent of our 
apprentices go on to achieve an honours degree and that so many of our 
senior managers started their working lives at Rolls-Royce as apprentices.
Continuous training and development is extremely important to our 
success. Over the past five years we have invested over  150 million 
improving the knowledge and skills of our people. In order to maintain the 
highest standards of ethical behaviour and business integrity, we review 
continually our procedures and training programmes, which are 
mandatory for all staff. As well as developing our own workforce we 
recognise our wider responsibility towards the next generation of 
scientists and engineers through the promotion of science, technology, 
engineering and maths (STEM) in schools and universities. We invest in a 
wide range of educational projects around the world and encourage our 
staff to take leadership roles as school governors and STEM ambassadors. 
As part of our responsibilities to the communities in which we work, the 
Board is committed to reducing the environmental impact of our products 
and operations. Across our portfolio we can demonstrate the progress that 
Rolls-Royce continued to perform well during 
201 1 with our order book growing to a record 
 62.2 billion. Underlying profits increased  
21 per cent to  1,157 million. We are proposing 
a final payment to shareholders of 10.6 pence 
per share, bringing the full year payment  
to 17 .5 pence per share. This is an increase 
of nine per cent and reflects the Board's 
continuing confidence in the Group's future.
This strong performance has been achieved against a background of 
macro-economic weakness and uncertainty. The recovery, which many 
people had been expecting in Europe and North America, failed to 
materialise in 201 1 and is still some way off. Fiscal imbalances, austerity 
programmes, disruption in the Eurozone and political tensions in the 
Middle East continue to affect world markets, undermining confidence 
about future macro-economic expansion even in Asia and South America. 
It is a tribute to everyone who works at Rolls-Royce that the Group has 
continued along its path of long-term growth despite these testing times.
Rolls-Royce is a long-term business which has maintained a consistent 
strategy over many years. We continually invest in advanced technology 
so that we can address both the present needs of our customers and meet 
their requirements for many years to come. Our power systems have life 
cycles that stretch over decades and we generate long-term revenue 
streams by servicing the products we sell. We have customers in 120 
countries and we continue to broaden our customer base across the four 
segments in which we operate: civil aerospace, defence aerospace, marine 
and energy, including civil nuclear. These characteristics have combined to 
make Rolls-Royce an increasingly resilient business. However, we are not 
complacent and continue to invest for the future. In 201 1, we invested  
 520 million from Group resources in research and development. This 
continuing commitment to technological innovation lies at the heart of 
our business model.
It is important to remember that Rolls-Royce sustains a global supply  
chain. Around 8,000 companies in some 70 countries, all generating 
employment, paying taxes and creating wealth, depend upon us and 
share in our success. For every person we employ, more than six jobs are 
Performing strongly in 
challenging conditions
Chairman's statement Business review
3
Business review
is being made. One good example is the Boeing 787 Dreamliner that 
entered service in September 201 1. This extraordinary aeroplane is 
designed to be 20 per cent more fuel efficient than the earlier generation 
of aircraft it replaces, thanks largely to advances in aero-engine 
technology. Our marine business has advanced hull designs, engines, and 
integrated propulsion systems that are reducing emissions dramatically.  
In our energy business we have continued to make good progress 
developing the scope of our civil nuclear capabilities. 
I would like to thank my fellow directors for their great support and hard 
work in the past year. I would also like particularly to express my gratitude 
to Andrew Shilston, who retired from the Board at the year end. Andrew 
served Rolls-Royce as Finance Director for nine years and has done an 
outstanding job. I wish him well in his future endeavours. My 
congratulations go to Mark Morris, who succeeds Andrew and was 
appointed to the Board in January 2012. Mark joined Rolls-Royce as a 
graduate 25 years ago. 
Sir John Rose, who had been with the Group for 27 years and was Chief 
Executive for 15 years, retired at the end of March and was succeeded by 
John Rishton. I have paid tribute to John Rose on a number of occasions 
including in last year's Annual report. Suffice it for me to say, we owe John 
a huge amount for what he achieved. I am very pleased to report that 
John Rishton has made a tremendous start as our new Chief Executive.
Sir Peter Gregson has expressed his wish to retire as a non-executive 
director of Rolls-Royce at this year's Annual General Meeting (AGM) and 
therefore will not be seeking re-election. Peter has made a valuable 
contribution during the past five years and I would like to thank him for his 
commitment. I am delighted to welcome both Lewis Booth and Sir Frank 
Chapman onto the Board as non-executive directors. Lewis Booth, who 
chairs the audit committee, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of Ford Motor Company and one of the most senior leaders within 
the auto industry. Sir Frank has been Chief Executive at BG Group for the 
past 1 1 years. He brings an additional deep technical understanding and 
knowledge of advanced engineering to the Board. He has agreed to chair 
a new safety committee that will be formed in 2012.
We are fortunate to benefit from the advice of an International Advisory 
Board (IAB), comprised of some of the world's most distinguished business 
and political leaders. The IAB, whose membership is detailed later, provides 
invaluable strategic advice about the global markets in which we operate 
under the able guidance of Lord Powell of Bayswater. I would like to thank 
its members for their time and wisdom. 
Through the disciplined application of a long-term strategy, Rolls-Royce has 
doubled its revenues in the past decade and we are confident of doubling 
them again in the coming ten years. Rolls-Royce has a strong balance sheet 
and we intend to run our business so that we maintain a single  A' credit 
rating. In all parts of our business we see opportunities for profitable 
growth, building on the firm foundations I have described above.
At the heart of our business lie our people. Our past, current and future 
success rests entirely with them. I believe Rolls-Royce has a highly-skilled 
and motivated team which is proud of its heritage and ambitious for  
its future. The strength of our order book demonstrates the confidence 
our customers have placed in us. We are focused on delivering these 
commitments for the long-term good of the families and communities 
who depend upon us and for the benefit of our customers and of  
our shareholders.
Rolls-Royce has a highly-skilled and 
motivated team - proud of its heritage 
and ambitious for its future.
Sir Simon Robertson 
Chairman
 
February 8, 201 2
Chairman's statement