  Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
4 Business review
Chairman's statement
In 2012, Rolls-Royce continued to grow underlying profits as it has 
done every year for the past decade. During that time the Group 
has doubled its revenues, trebled its order book and more than 
quadrupled its profits. 
During 2012, the order book rose by four per cent, underlying 
revenues increased by eight per cent and underlying profits grew 
by 24 per cent. The Group's performance in 2012 is a testament to 
the strength of our strategy, the quality of our technology and the 
ability and determination of our people. We are proposing a final 
payment to shareholders of 11.9 pence per share bringing the full 
year payment to 19.5 pence per share, an increase of 11 per cent.
Many of the markets in which we operate remain challenging. 
European economies are stagnant or contracting. In North America, 
recovery is fragile and, in the emerging economies of South America 
and Asia, growth is relatively subdued. Government spending in the 
developed world remains under intense pressure, whilst political 
tensions in the Middle East further undermine confidence.
Nonetheless, Rolls-Royce remains well positioned. Millions of 
people in developing nations continue to join the real economy, 
which drives the requirement for power on land, sea and air. In 
addition, all of our customers demand increasingly fuel efficient 
and environmentally friendly power systems. Rolls-Royce 
continues to invest for future growth throughout the business 
cycle. This includes over  900 million a year in research and 
development (R&D), with two thirds of this total devoted to 
improving the environmental performance of our products. 
The result of these investments can be seen across our portfolio. 
The Trent 1000 aero engine, which powers the Boeing 787 
Dreamliner, has enabled this new composite aircraft to achieve fuel 
efficiency improvements of 20 per cent compared with the aircraft 
it is replacing. Looking ahead, the Trent XWB that will power the 
new Airbus A350 XWB is proving itself to be the most efficient jet 
engine in the world. In our Marine business, the introduction of 
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) engines and radical hull designs have 
enabled our newest vessels to reduce CO 2 emissions by up to 40 per 
cent and practically eliminate emissions of sulphur and nitrogen 
oxides. In our Energy business, the latest variant of our industrial 
Trent engine offers significant efficiency improvements. We 
continue to invest in our Civil Nuclear business in order to support 
the development of non-fossil fuel power generation.
In order to fulfil our substantial order book and to increase our 
productivity, Rolls-Royce has continued to develop new state-of-the-
art facilities around the world. This investment creates a demand 
for highly-skilled labour and generates economic activity. In the 
US, we were pleased to welcome President Obama to our new 
facility at Crosspointe in Virginia where we are manufacturing discs 
for our latest Trent engines. It was a particular pleasure for me to 
welcome the Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, to the 
official opening of our new campus at Seletar in Singapore, where 
later in 2012 the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge unveiled the 
first Trent 900 engine to be assembled at the site. We also made 
substantial investments in the UK. These include our new 
apprentice academy in Derby, which was opened by the Chancellor 
of the Exchequer, George Osborne. This facility enables us to double 
the number of apprentices we can train, providing a supply of 
highly-trained young men and women for companies in our 
supply chain. 
In 2012, 318 apprentices joined the Group, along with 312 graduates 
from 89 universities and 36 nations. We provide these young men 
and women with opportunities to gather experience across the 
Group by working on different projects and in various locations 
before settling on a career path within the Group. 
We encourage all employees to undertake training throughout their 
careers. We invested  39 million in training and development 
during 2012 with major teaching facilities operating in the UK, US 
and Singapore. We also have a comprehensive online resource that 
this year delivered nearly 250,000 hours of training in subjects as 
wide ranging as export control legislation to health and safety.
We have an outstanding community of new recruits who give 
me tremendous confidence about the future of the Group. 
Among the many awards accumulated by our young men and 
women, Patrick Reiman came top in a national ranking of 
apprentices in Germany, having completed his final exams with 
a mark of 98 per cent. Neeraj Sunger, Oliver Jukes and Laura Grey all 
won  Outstanding Achievement' awards from the Engineering 
Employers Federation in the UK. For the first time in 2012, one of 
our own graduates, Philippa Davies, acted as master of ceremonies 
at the Rolls-Royce Science Prize award, an annual event that 
celebrates the very best science teaching in the UK. These diverse 
young people show that engineering can attract the brightest and 
best by offering stimulating, varied and rewarding careers.
Sir Simon Robertson
Chairman  Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
5 Business review
Business review
Chairman's statement
Rolls-Royce has a significant requirement for educated young 
people to support our future growth. Therefore we invest time, 
energy and financial resource in encouraging Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education. This includes our 
participation in  Project Enthuse', an industry and government 
initiative that provides professional development of STEM teachers 
in the UK; a partnership to raise the skills of science teachers in 
primary schools in Germany; sponsorship of a  Rocket Challenge' in 
the US; and a technology laboratory in Dubai, where teachers and 
pupils can learn about the practical applications of physics.
Rolls-Royce is dedicated to improving the environmental 
performance of its products and to bring better power 
to a changing world. The Group provides world-class training 
and its people give their time and energy to support educational 
projects. We donate around  8 million a year to charitable causes. 
In all of these ways Rolls-Royce demonstrates its commitment 
to sustainability and to investing in the communities in which 
it operates.
As previously reported, the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) asked us, 
early in 2012, to investigate allegations of bribery and corruption 
in Indonesia and China. In response to its request we asked a leading 
law firm to conduct a wide review which has raised matters of 
concern in these and in other markets. We have now referred 
a file to the SFO.
Rolls-Royce has significantly strengthened its compliance 
procedures in recent years. We established an ethics committee in 
2008 and subsequently introduced a new Global Code of Business 
Ethics in 2009 and an Intermediaries Policy. We have also expanded 
our compliance function. In January 2013, we appointed Lord Gold 
to lead a review of our current procedures and to report to the 
ethics committee. Lord Gold is one of the UK's most respected 
litigators and has extensive experience working at the most senior 
levels with corporations, governments and regulators around the 
world. As we have made clear, the Board will not tolerate improper 
business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to 
ensure compliance.
I would like to thank my fellow directors for their great support 
and hard work in the last year. In particular, I would pay tribute to 
Mike Terrett, who retired from the Board and from his role as 
Chief Operating Officer at the end of 2012. Mike joined Rolls-Royce 
as a graduate trainee and over the course of 34 years played a 
significant role in the Group's transformation, as Chief Engineer 
on the Trent 700 and the Trent 800, President of International 
Aero Engines, President of Civil Aerospace and, since 2007,  
as Chief Operating Officer. 
We bid farewell to Peter Byrom, our longest serving non-executive 
director and to Ian Strachan. Both retire at the 2013 annual general 
meeting (AGM). Their wise counsel, constructive challenge and 
support has been of enormous value to me and the Board. Iain Conn 
will replace Ian Strachan as Chairman of the ethics committee.
As well as thanking departing colleagues, it has been a great 
pleasure to welcome onto the Board, Jasmin Staiblin, who is Chief 
Executive of the Swiss energy group, Alpiq, and previously worked 
for many years for ABB. Jasmin brings engineering expertise and 
international experience to the Board.
Four executives at Rolls-Royce and one non-executive director were 
recognised this year by Her Majesty the Queen as Commanders of 
the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBEs). I congratulate 
Colin Smith, Mike Terrett, Professor Ric Parker, Richard Thornley and 
Lewis Booth. 
I would like to thank the members of our International Advisory 
Board (IAB) who continue to provide great insight into our global 
markets. The IAB is led by Lord Powell of Bayswater and its members 
are distinguished political and business leaders. We are fortunate to 
have their support, and I am grateful for the time and energy they 
devote on our behalf. 
This will be the final review I write as Chairman of Rolls-Royce, 
as I will be retiring at the AGM after eight years with this 
great company.
It has been an honour to lead Rolls-Royce through a period of 
growth and transformation. I am proud of what has been achieved 
and believe strongly that the best is still to come. Rolls-Royce has 
earned itself an enviable position from which it can see abundant 
opportunities for profitable growth. The talent of its management 
team ably led by John Rishton, the strength of its order book, the 
quality and range of its technology and its access to global markets 
augur well for an outstanding future.
I have met extraordinary people at every level of the Group and have 
enjoyed my tenure as Chairman. I am in no doubt that my successor, 
Ian Davis, who will join the Board on 1 March 2013 and who will 
succeed me as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May, 
will shepherd Rolls-Royce to even greater success. He brings to the 
Group a wealth of international and Board level experience.
Lastly I wish the Board, John Rishton and the management team 
every success. I am grateful to my fellow directors, Rolls-Royce 
employees, customers, suppliers, partners and our long-term 
shareholders for their loyal support.
Sir Simon Robertson
Chairman
13 February 2013