 Royal Mail Holdings plc 
 
4 
Joint Deputy Chairman's and Chief Executives' Statement 
We've been successful in the past year in terms of growing our revenue and improving efficiency and our financial results reflect this progress. 
But we have to keep the momentum going - there's still much tough work to complete across our business if we're to provide our customers with 
a consistently high quality of service in the face of competition entering our markets, and deliver the Renewal Plan. Improving quality of service 
to our customers is Royal Mail's number one priority.  
A key efficiency improvement in the last few months of 2003-04 has been the introduction, finally, of Single Daily Delivery. The change has been 
introduced successfully into 900 of the 1,400 main delivery offices and we are working hard to successfully complete the implementation in a 
further 200 offices with completion of the change in all our offices being a vital goal in 2004-05. Efficiency improvements are also being 
introduced in the offices which sort and handle the mail with changes already made in 31 out of 72 mail centres, and in 45 of the 100 distribution 
hubs. 
Also vital to our business is the transformation of our transport network. We are establishing a simple system for an efficient mails business, 
involving a reduction in the number of daily vehicle journeys from 9,000 to some 2,900 through the more efficient use of road transport and a 
hub-and-spoke operation. A new road and air network was launched in January this year and the changes we are making include: closing seven 
of the 16 regional distribution centres, opening a new National Distribution Centre at Daventry and reducing nightly air services, with the 
intention of running 24 services from 20 airports by the end of this year, based on large aircraft with mail transported in containers. The last 
Travelling Post Offices ran in January and the one remaining rail mail freight service is expected to end in May.  
In February 2004, we signed a deal covering pay, London weighting and changes to the business (including the introduction of single daily 
deliveries). This 14.5% pay package is giving every postman and woman basic pensionable pay of  300 a week - a key milestone for our 
frontline people. Royal Mail is a people business and we know that pay has been an important issue, so we are pleased we've reached this 
landmark agreement.   
However, the pay agreement was reached following the worst period of industrial action since 1996 - despite the majority of our people voting 
against strike action in a nationwide ballot. During the year, there were just over 85,000 days lost to strikes - the bulk in October and early 
November, when more than 80,000 days were lost in the dispute over London weighting, even though many of our people in London continued 
to work. This cost us some  25m and had a major impact on our quality of service, so almost everybody lost - our people, our business and, 
most importantly, our customers.    
The cumulative effect of the essential operational changes we are making - in deliveries, in the transport network and in our mail centres - has, 
unavoidably, led to a reduction in quality of service in the latter half of the year. We apologise to customers who will continue to see adverse 
effects while we complete these key operational changes in our letters business. The magnitude of the changes we are making over a period of 
just some six months amounts to the biggest restructuring of any company in the UK. It's notable that until September 2003, we were exceeding 
some of our targets and the First Class level of service was the best for 15 years. 
However, in the latter half of the year, as the impact of the autumn industrial action took its toll, we failed every single operational target set by 
Postcomm in our licence. Not only does this undermine customer confidence, it exposes us to the risk of being fined by Postcomm and paying 
compensation to bulk mailers and retail customers. Last year the Regulator fined us  7.5m for failing to meet the targets for two First Class 
business mail services. In the light of our recent poor quality of service performance, the prospect of fines, that will not benefit our customers or 
the Company, only underlines how vital it is for us to complete the operational changes that will bring efficiency savings and better services to 
customers. 
After many months of discussion, Royal Mail agreed with Postcomm a three-year price control, allowing a modest 1p rise in basic First and 
Second Class postage in May 2003, the first rises in basic postage for three years. Over the past year, letter mail volumes have increased by 
1.6%, whilst mail prices have increased by approximately 3% in the first year of the price control. This tariff increase generated some  200m, but 
the RPI -1% formula applying in the coming year will see Royal Mail's basket of prices falling in real terms, underlying the need to make further 
efficiencies and cost savings in the year ahead, particularly because we need to find  340m more to fund the 14.5% pay increase for frontline 
people within the letters business. 
Our estimate has been that some 30,000 jobs in the Group would be made redundant over the course of the three-year Renewal Plan, with 
some further jobs going through outsourcing and natural turnover. By the end of March 2004, some 27,100 people had left the Group - through 
a combination of voluntary redundancy (10,900), natural turnover  (8,000) and outsourcing (8,200). A further 5,000, who have accepted 
voluntary redundancy, are working their notice period, many of whom will leave the business by September 2004. By this date, therefore, 32,100 
people will have left Royal Mail through voluntary redundancy, natural turnover or outsourcing.  
Our outsourcing contracts cover a range of non-core services including IT support, employee health services, buildings maintenance and 
cleaning services, and the management of the company car fleet. Of course, the jobs of people working in these roles continue with the 
suppliers of these services. 
Parcelforce Worldwide continues to strengthen its position in the express-only, guaranteed delivery market for its 17,000 business customers. It 
has halved its number of depots to around 50, and its high 98% quality of service on its core product is among the best compared to its 4,000 
rivals. It has cut its losses by almost  100m compared to the previous year - thanks to the efforts everyone in the business have made to make 
efficiency savings but it is still losing money -  102m over this financial year. It is vital it completes its restructuring plans to hit its goal of 
breaking even in this current financial year.  Royal Mail Holdings plc 
 
5 
Joint Deputy Chairman's and Chief Executives' Statement (continued) 
Our European parcels business, GLS, had a very good year, increasing its revenue by  32m (4%) to  818m, and more than doubling its profit 
from operations of  11m in the previous year to  25m in 2003-04. GLS is now delivering one million parcels a day on average in 30 countries, 
and it is a formidable player in its markets. 
Post Office Limited also cut its operating losses over the year - to  102m. The result, however, does not include the financing of the rural Post 
Office branches through the Rural Network Reserve. A total of 1,278 branches closed in the same period, but Post Office Limited still faces a 
considerable challenge to replace its traditional benefit payment business, which is being lost because of the Department for Work and 
Pensions' programme to switch to the direct payment of benefits into customers' bank accounts. 
A combination of new services, coupled with a plan to manage a significant reduction in the number of urban Post Office branches, is helping 
the network to drive forward financially and to create a vibrant business for the future. Over 21 million customers can now withdraw cash from 
their current accounts at Post Office branches with just their bank card and personal identification number, as can the basic bank account 
customers of 17 banks and building societies. More than two million customers have opened a Post Office Card Account since its launch in April 
last year.   
During the year, the Post Office finalised an agreement with the Government to utilise  450m of Royal Mail Group plc's reserves to finance the 
rural network over the three years to March 2006. The joint venture signed in March 2004 with the Bank of Ireland provides a  100m investment 
for the development of a broader range of financial services. Personal loans are now available, by phone or through the web, to the 29 million 
customers who visit the 16,000-strong branch network every week. More new financial services will be launched in the coming financial year, 
including motor insurance, a range of savings accounts and a credit card. 
The financial problem of having too many urban branches chasing too little business is being addressed through the managed closure of up to 
3,000 Post Office branches in towns and cities. The Government has sanctioned  210m of funding from existing financial resources -  180m to 
compensate outgoing subpostmasters for their investment in the business and  30m for investing in the branches that remain. More than 1,000 
urban Post Office branches have already closed and consultations on the proposed closure of most of the remainder are underway with 
Postwatch, local communities, local authorities and MPs. Meanwhile, the Post Office has become one of the leading players in travel financial 
services - number one in providing foreign currency and the largest independent provider of travel insurance. 
As we enter the final year of the Renewal Plan, we still face a significant number of challenges. Only by further reductions in costs, improving 
efficiency, consistently delivering a first class service to customers and making Royal Mail a truly great place to work for our people, will we be 
on a sound footing for the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
Elmar Toime      Adam Crozier    David Mills 
Executive Deputy Chairman    Chief Executive    Chief Executive 
Royal Mail Holdings plc    Royal Mail Group plc   Post Office Limited 
26 May 2004      26 May 2004     26 May 2004 
 