 Royal Mail Holdings plc 
4 
Chairman's Statement    
Royal Mail's postmen and postwomen have achieved a fantastic turnaround.   
Royal Mail has had a remarkable year. By the end of 2004-05:  
  quality of service was at its highest levels on record;  
  postmen and postwomen had earned their biggest bonus - nearly  1,100;  
  the  537m profit from operations in 2004-05 was a record with more than  200m going to the Company's people in one of the 
biggest profit shares with employees in UK corporate history;   
  the implementation of operational changes have been completed to give Royal Mail the platform it needs to take on full competition 
in the mail market from January 2006;  
  mail volumes reached a record 84 million letters a day, a million more a day compared to the previous year, and the Group's sales 
income was also a record at  8.9bn; and 
  15% efficiency has been achieved over the Renewal Plan, sav ing gross costs of  1.5bn, which have been reinvested in our people, 
our customers - including specific improvement in quality of service - and our infrastructure, beating the  1.4bn target set. 
Three years ago, the idea that Royal Mail could achieve any of the successes above seemed far-fetched to many. In 2002, the Company was 
losing well over  1m a day on its operations, failing its customers, had one of the worst industrial relations records in the UK, and had an 
inefficient operation that was incapable of being profitable under the heaviest regulation in the postal world. It was in no position to embrace 
competition. Royal Mail could not have survived without modernisation. We had to change. But what's really impressive about the 2004-05 
results is the sheer scale of the progress the Company has made. Royal Mail's postmen and postwomen have achieved a fantastic turnaround. 
It's not just that we've made a decent profit but, above all, postmen and postwomen have significantly improved service to customers. 
Everyone in Royal Mail is more focused on customers and more committed to achieving even better quality of service than ever before.     
The growth in letters volume was the biggest factor that fuelled record sales of  8.9bn - a 3.7% growth in revenue on the previous year. 
Domestic mail price increases at below the rate of inflation also contributed to improved turnover, along with increased sales income from 
Parcelforce Worldwide and General Logistics Systems.  
Crucially, the overhaul of Royal Mail's frontline operations was implemented and the jobs of some 164,000 of our people have now been 
changed. This year saw the move to a single daily delivery to replace the two deliveries, which every other modern postal company had 
abandoned years ago. The Company had first considered making this necessary change nearly two decades ago. For our customers, the 
change was the most visible one we made as it meant a dip in quality of service during the spring and early summer of 2004. However, the 
service has since recovered strongly and we are now giving our customers unprecedented, high levels of service. We also completed this year 
the streamlining of our transport network and introduced more efficient working in our mail centres.  
The productivity gains we've made have triggered pay increases for postmen and postwomen with basic, pensionable pay now at least 
 311.50 a week - more than  60 or almost 25% better than basic pay just before we launched the modernisation programme. It's our people 
who have successfully accomplished the operational changes that have delivered the profit from operations, and they are being rewarded, not 
just with better pay, but with a Share in Success gross payment of  1,074. If we had hit a  400m profit from operations, the pay -out would have 
been  800, but exceeding the target has led to an enhanced payment. Our people fully deserve their Share in Success payment because it's 
our people who have turned the Company around.  
A further success this year has been the turnaround of Parcelforce Worldwide. It emerged from 2004-05 making a profit from operations in the 
second half on its day -to-day operations.The business's radical restructuring, with a focus on express, time-guaranteed services for business 
customers, is paying off. Its overall performance in 2004-05 was a loss from operations of  13m but this was an improvement of nearly 80% on 
the  54m loss the previous year.  
General Logistics Systems, our European parcels business which delivers to customers in 34 countries, continued to perform strongly with a 
profit from operations of  61m - a  36m increase on the previous year, up 144%. The company increased its sales with growth in its core 
markets in Germany, France and Italy. This was also helped by tight cost controls, improved operational productivity and expansion of the GLS 
network in Italy. GLS has made excellent progress over the past three years and it now represents a significant contributor to overall Group 
profitability. Over this period GLS has also continued to strengthen its network providing Royal Mail with a strong presence in Europe. 
Post Office Limited continues to face some of the biggest challenges in the entire Group - indeed this year we again had some uncertainty as 
to whether it can be considered a going concern. It made a  110m loss from its operations,  7m worse than the previous year, although the 
result includes  18m of start up losses from Post Office Financial Services. Despite the loss from operations, the year saw the Post Office  
network continuing to provide more than 28 million customers a week with its unique and valued mix of public service, combined with an 
expanding range of new financial services. Its biggest traditional source of income - handling the payment of pensions and child benefit by 
order books - was coming to an end in 2004-05 as the traditional benefits income continued to switch to direct payments into bank accounts. 
The full impact of the change to direct payment of benefits into bank accounts, which has been worth some 40% of revenue every ye ar and 
has now gone, will be felt in 2005-06. This is being partly offset by additional revenue from new services such as banking, car, and home and 
contents insurance, Post Office  savings products, mobile phone top-ups and the HomePhone service, which has won well over 60,000 new 
customers in the ten weeks since its launch. Post Office Limited is already a market leader with its commission-free foreign exchange service 
along with travel insurance, which this current year, is expected to see sales in exces s of one million policies. There remains an income 
shortfall between the loss of the benefits business and the revenue from new products. The challenge facing the network, therefore, is 
substantial. Post Office Limited's goal of creating a sustainable and viable network remains stretching, 
 
 
  Royal Mail Holdings plc 
5 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
In fact, the Group faces challenges and pressures across its entire operation. It would be very foolish to think that having successfully 
transformed Royal Mail over the last three years, it's a job done and the Company can sit back while benefits pile up. The reality is that Royal 
Mail is going to have to focus even more intensely on further improvements to customer service, more efficiency gains and ensuring the 
continued commitment of all its people.   
Competition is already biting but the opening of the postal market to full competition from January 2006 will make real the biggest challenge 
Royal Mail has ever faced. The Company is going to have to master - and fast - the ability to w in and keep customers when they are being 
offered an increasing range of rival services. Competition is real - we all have to face up to that. This will mean a culture change across the 
whole organisation. With the Regulator continuing to subject Royal Mail to tight controls, including our prices - on which we lose over  200m 
on nearly 90% of price controlled volumes that we are obliged to provide - Royal Mail needs to be even better at operating the virtuous circle of 
earning profits to pay its people and fund the investment in more technology to improve further the service to customers, and deliver the 
efficiency savings and sales that generate more profit. Royal Mail remains committed to ensuring its pension fund continues to meet its 
obligations in full but the  2.5bn deficit demands increases in the employer's contribution - and the best way to achieve that is by being more 
profitable. We need to remember that Royal Mail's return on turnover for its domestic letters business of 8.6% is much lower than the double-
digit returns of two of our biggest competitors, Deutsche Post and TNT Post Group,16.4% and 22.2% respectively.  
Royal Mail's mission remains to become demonstrably the best and most trusted mail company in the world. The last three years have 
demonstrated that huge effort by all in the Company has resulted in major achievements in quality of service to customers, Company 
performance and reward for our people. The challenge now is to show how well and successfully a modernised and re-invigorated Royal Mail 
can compete in a market that will change forever from 2006.  
 
 
 
 
Allan Leighton  
Chairman  
16 May 2005   
 
 
 
 