 Statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive
It is pleasing to report that in a year of
unprecedented adversity the adjusted
profit before tax* was unchanged at
 29.4m. As a result of a 2% increase in
the number of shares and a higher tax
rate adjusted earnings per share**
declined by 7%. Significant
restructuring costs and an impairment
charge, in total amounting to  12.0m,
were incurred. Consequently the basic
earnings per share was reduced to
13.2p (2006: 19.9p).
The principal challenge came from
higher polymer costs which, for the
12 month period, were at their highest
ever level and 11% ahead of the
average for the previous year; this
meant that the cost of our basic raw
material rose by  20.0m. There were
also substantial increases in electricity,
outer packaging and carriage costs.
Sales of fruit bowls to one of our
major customers halved, leaving us
with substantial under-utilised
capacity. Also the equipment we
transferred from Woburn Sands to our
Rushden factory did not achieve an
acceptable level of efficiency for
several months. In the latter stages of
the financial year, a number of the
difficulties alleviated, some price
increases over and above raw material
cost movements were achieved and
volumes including fruit bowl volumes
were recovering. We also benefited
from an increased contribution from
our Bramlage-Wiko cluster and some
one-off payments to compensate for
sales shortfalls on starting up major
projects.
The cost pressures on the Group are
being met by a real determination
across all our operations to effect
operational efficiencies and achieve
cost reduction. In this challenging 
environment we are looking harder at
our underperforming operations and, as
can be seen from the size of our
restructuring costs, we are taking
strong action where necessary.
Revenue for the year at  645.7m was
6% ahead of last year, which equated
to a 2% increase on a like-for-like
basis. Adjusted operating profit was up
4% at  38.1m (2006:  36.8m)
although margins reduced to 5.9% of
sales (2006: 6.0%). Adjusted EBITDA
rose to  72.2m from  70.2m in the
previous year. The tax rate was up from
27% to 31% largely because there was
an increase in our taxable profits in
Germany where the tax rate is high.
Cash generated by operations was
 40.9m. This was  23.6m less than last
year because of an adverse movement
in working capital reflecting the
additional working capital invested in
the acquired businesses, the continuing
tightening of credit terms by polymer
suppliers and the higher values of raw
materials and finished goods stocks
due to higher polymer prices. Net bank
debt at the year end was  137.1m and
gearing was 87%.
Capital expenditure at  35.5m was
broadly in line with depreciation
despite a large carry over of planned
expenditure from the previous year.
Significant projects completed were
the Dolce Gusto production facilities at
Bouxwiller, the completion of the
factory expansion at Rushden and the
conversion of margarine tub
production to an in-line operation in
both Holland and Germany. Capital
expenditure is expected to come down
further in 2007/08 in part because of a
lower level of carry forward
expenditure.
Strategy and Acquisitions
Despite the harsh conditions your
Company has experienced these last
few years, caused mainly by the sharp
escalation in our principal input costs,
we are not deviating from our strategy
which we believe will best create value
for shareholders. RPC is already the
2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2007
RPC Formatec's inhaler technology was
instrumental in developing Watchaler, by
Activaero, a device for pulmonary drug
delivery and inhalation.
A redesign of Kraft's Kenco FreshSeal cup
range, produced by RPC Hereford, giving
improved practicality and more effective
branding.
The benefits of RPC Bramlage-Wiko's
Magic Star dispenser have been recognised
by Dermasalve Sciences for their range of
specialist skincare products.
** adjusted profit before tax is operating
profit before restructuring, disruption
and impairment charges less net interest
** adjusted earnings per share is adjusted
profit before tax less corporation tax at
31% divided by the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the
year RPC Group annual report and accounts 2007 3
RPC Formatec provides the casing for
biozoom, a unique diagnostic solution
devised by Opsolution Spectroscopic
Systems and utilising the technology of
Carl Zeiss.
RPC beaut  produces the elegant cap for
the Lanc me, Paris, Hypn se fragrance
Magie bottle, created in 1950 by Georges
Delhomme and inspired by the shape of a
Japanese woman draped in her kimono.
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh makes the unique single
serve drink capsules for Nestl 's
revolutionary new Nescaf  Dolce Gusto
system, delivering coffee shop quality
beverages in the home.
leader in rigid plastic packaging in
Europe and we believe there are
attractive opportunities to build on our
position through organic growth and
acquisitions. We are a consolidator in a
market that remains very fragmented
and, in our view, we will benefit from
ongoing industry consolidation. With a
strong track record in acquisitions and
integration we are prepared to take on
significant challenges, for example the
Nampak acquisition, where four plants
were consolidated into three, provided,
we believe our efforts will produce an
attractive return for our shareholders.
The Crown Risdon business acquired in
July 2006 falls into this category. The
acquisition led to the formation of the
RPC beaut  cluster. Initial success in
securing new contracts has been
encouraging and we have now begun a
strategic review to ensure that we
have the optimal cost base and
structure to service this market.
On 31 October 2006 we acquired
Barplas Limited from the Barghout
family as announced at the time of our
Half Year results. This extends our
product offering in the UK paint
market. It has performed consistently
well since the acquisition and gives us
an excellent platform from which to
offer these products to the Mainland
filling facilities of our existing
customers.
On 1 June 2007 we acquired the
plastic manufacturing operations of
DM Plast s.r.o. in Velky Meder near
Bratislava in Slovakia for a provisional
consideration of  2.0m. Importantly, it
gives us our first injection moulding
facility in the lower-cost economies of
Central Europe, ideally situated to
supply the Central and Eastern
European economies and with a track-
record of supplying western customers,
notably Henkel.
New Product Development
Activities
We have become the supplier of
choice to a number of our customers
when they develop novel, innovative
products designed to open up new
markets. The pipeline at present
includes, among others, a significant
number of pharmaceutical projects. All
development projects are invariably
customised: the equipment (including
tooling) bespoke to these projects has
therefore to be paid for by the relevant
customers. The sums of money
associated with this equipment can be
significant and our financial
performance is impacted by these
substantial one-offs. This feature of our
business has had an impact during
2006/07 and is likely to continue to do
so in the future. Further to this, when
these projects are slow to take off, our
customers are normally very
supportive and compensate us for
some of the shortfall in sales. The
benefit is never as great as if the
project is a success and our capacity
fully occupied from day one, but there
is nonetheless a significant impact on
our trading when we receive such
compensation. In this context we
received  3.0m of compensation in
2006/07.
Board and Personnel
In order to ensure a smooth succession
the Board expects to announce the
appointment of a new Finance Director
shortly; at that time the present
Finance Director, Chris Sworn, will
assume responsibility for all of our
Blow Moulding operations until his
retirement in two years time. Chris will
also remain an executive member of
the Board. The Board would like to
thank Chris for his significant
contribution as Finance Director and it
looks forward to his input and the
benefit of his experience in his new
role.
RPC has, we believe, a special ethos as
a result of its decentralised structure
which in consequence affords many
opportunities for individuals to make
their own contribution to the Group.
We appreciate the outstanding efforts
by all who together have enabled the
Group to confront the difficult market
conditions. Statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive continued
4 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2007
Dividend
Your Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend to 5.7p
per share (2006: 5.25p) making a total
for the year of 8.4p (2006: 7.75p), an
increase of 8.4%. Subject to approval
at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid
on 7 September 2007 to shareholders
on the register on 10 August 2007.
Outlook
Polymer costs have risen further in the
first quarter of 2007/08 and we
anticipate that they will continue to
remain high during 2007/08, a view
which is widely shared in the plastic
packaging industry. Beyond this time
horizon there is an expectation that
polymer prices will begin to fall as
additional capacity comes on stream in
the Middle East.
Despite the unhelpful continuing
escalation in raw material costs we
have made a satisfactory start to the
new financial year and the Board
expects to make progress in the year
to come.
J P Williams R J E Marsh
Chairman Chief Executive
The excellent relationship between the
RPC Corby Blow Moulding site and Greek
fruit packer,Venus Growers, was underlined
by their selection of the Classic Ultra jar,
made in PP/EVOH/PP for the barrier
protection required to package their high-
quality fruit products, exported
worldwide.
RPC's commitment to specialisation was
rewarded by Breeo Foods' decision to
relaunch its Dairygold spreads range in a
stylish new design featuring an in-mould
labelled (IML) base, from RPC Old Dalby,
and a co-extruded lid from RPC Hereford.
The re-launch of Beiersdorf's Nivea Hair
Care Range has met consumers'
requirements with a slim bottle in pleasing
colours, manufactured exclusively for
Beiersdorf by RPC Kutenholz.