  RWS Holdings plc
I am delighted to report another year of strong organic growth from RWS. In its fourth year as a public 
company it has delivered new record levels for both sales and profi ts.
  Business Overview
RWS is Europe s leading provider of intellectual property support services and high level technical, legal and 
fi nancial translation services. The core business - patent translation - is probably the largest of its kind in the 
world, translating over 50,000 patents and intellectual property related documents each year. It serves a 
multinational blue chip client base drawn from Europe, North America and Japan. Its clients will be active fi lers 
of patents in the medical, pharmaceutical, chemical, aerospace, defence, automotive, electronics and telecoms 
sectors, as well as patent agents with similar clients, and the leading intellectual property organisations. The 
Group comprises two divisions, the Translation division providing patent and document translation, fi ling and 
localisation services in the UK, USA, Europe, Japan and China, and the Information division, which offers a 
comprehensive range of patent search, retrieval and monitoring services as well as a recently developed and 
extremely comprehensive patent database service accessible by subscribers, known as PatBase.
  Strategy
The Group s strategy is to grow both organically and by selective acquisitions in the high level technical 
translation and intellectual property support services spaces. Organic growth will fl ow from leveraging RWS  
size and reputation for specialist quality with both existing clients and new major corporates in a highly 
fragmented and largely freelance industry.
  Results and Financial Review
Sales and profi t for the year established new records. Sales grew by 13.3% to  46.2 million (2006:  40.8m); 
profi t before tax and goodwill amortization rose by 22.3% to  1 1.1 million (2006:  9.0m). The effective tax 
rate was 23.8% (2006: 27 .8%). Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortization advanced by 25.6% 
to 21.1p (2006: 16.8p).
This strong performance was achieved despite unfavourable currency movements and was attributable to our 
success in both client acquisition and client retention. In addition, improved productivity, high margins in our 
growing patent database, PatBase, and tight control of translation costs, particularly freelance costs, delivered 
a strong improvement in our margins, with profi t before tax and goodwill amortization rising from 22.1% to 
23.9% of sales revenues. 
The Group s fi nancial base has gone from strength to strength. Shareholders  funds have advanced to  27 .1 
million, including net cash of  20.4 million. Free cash fl ow increased to  7 .5 million and capital expenditure 
was, as usual, modest at  224,000. The excellent growth in the overall business required further working 
capital of  1.8 million. The acquisition of Japanese Language Services absorbed a further  1.1 million, but 
even after tax and dividend payments net cash advanced by  4.5 million year on year.
  Dividend
The Board recommends a fi nal dividend of 6.5p per share, which, together with the interim payment, will result 
in a total dividend payout for the year of 8.65p per share, yet again a 20% increase over 2006. 
The proposed total dividend is more than twice covered by after tax profi ts. Subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the fi nal dividend will be paid on 22 February 2008 to all shareholders on 
the register at 25 January 2008.
2
Executive Chairman's Statement RWS Holdings plc
  Acquisitions
Japanese Language Services Limited, which was acquired in June 2007 , has been seamlessly integrated into 
our Translation division and early results are ahead of our expectations with complete client retention and 
good levels of business. We continue to review acquisition opportunities which will be pursued selectively 
where they have demonstrable growth prospects and enhance shareholder value. 
  Patent Translation Market
The European Patent Offi ce 2006 annual report confi rmed further underlying growth in patent applications 
fi led, which provides the macro driver for RWS  continued expansion in its core patent translations activity.
  Operating Review
Translations Patent translations form the core of the Group s business and account for almost 80% of revenues. 
Client retention and acquisition combined with further growth in the numbers of patents granted worldwide 
ensured that our core business continued to perform ahead of plan. Our largest client regained its leading 
position after a temporary shortfall in 2006 and the majority of our larger customers increased their utilisation 
of our services. The RWS offering has long been regarded as a high quality, convenient and cost-effective 
solution for those clients with signifi cant patent volumes requiring comprehensive geographical intellectual 
property protection.
We have increased our sales effort, especially in the USA where we now employ three business development 
managers primarily covering the East and West coasts. The translation work they obtain is undertaken in the 
UK, Japan and China.
In Japan, having occupied enhanced offi ce space in 2007 , sales advanced in yen terms but were held back 
when expressed in sterling. Our Beijing offi ce is now fully operational and attracting interest from European 
and North American corporates.
The commercial and technical translation activities now include Eclipse, which was acquired in 2005, and 
Japanese Language Services, which was acquired in 2007 , and account for 14% of sales. These activities 
have achieved excellent results in a highly competitive environment. We continue to seek to protect our margins 
via preferred supplier or approved contractor status, handling larger, more diffi cult assignments.
Information Whilst the Information division only accounts for 7% of group sales, it has traditionally enjoyed 
far superior margins to the rest of the business. This continues to be the case as it attempts to exploit its market 
leading position in the provision of patent search, patent watch and document services. Sales of these services 
advanced only modestly.
However, this division was responsible for the development of an extremely comprehensive and searcher-
friendly patent database (PatBase). We are exploiting this subscription-based service in partnership with 
an intellectual property software company and it has delivered in excess of 70% growth in 2007 , with the 
outstanding margins often associated with subscription services.
3
Executive Chairman's Statement   Principal Risks
The Directors believe that the principal risks to the business would arise from errors in the provision of the 
Group s services, in a mismatch between currencies (i.e. sales are predominantly in euros, whilst costs are 
mainly incurred in sterling) and in regulatory changes to patent translation requirements in Europe.
As regards service provision, RWS has long been ISO-certifi ed and has exhaustive procedures in place to 
minimise the risk of error. In addition, the Group carries comprehensive professional indemnity insurance.
The currency risks can normally be addressed via hedging operations. During the fi nancial year ended 30 
September 2007 , we entered into limited euro/sterling hedging arrangements which have been extended to 
March 2008. However, the Group believes the recent strength of the euro will continue and has no immediate 
plans for additional hedges.
At the time RWS fl oated on AIM in November 2003, two regulatory initiatives were highlighted as potential 
threats to our patent translation activities. The fi rst - a European Community Patent - was decisively rejected 
in 2005. The second - the London Agreement - has now been ratifi ed by suffi cient member states for it to be 
implemented in the near future. On 1 October 2007 , it was announced that we anticipated that the London 
Agreement would come into effect in the Spring of 2008, that it was a voluntary arrangement, and that the 
estimated reduction in profi t before tax would be of the order of  1 million in the fi nancial year ending 30 
September 2008 and  2 million in a full year. We emphasised that our core patent translation activities (into 
English, primarily for use at the US Patent Offi ce) were unaffected by the London Agreement; the potential loss 
of work comprises the into European language translations performed by freelances.
  People
RWS is a quintessential people  business. The efforts of my Board colleagues and all of our staff throughout 
the world have been fundamental to the delivery of another set of excellent results and the enhancement of 
our reputation across our customer base.
  Outlook
As has previously been experienced, our markets remain strong in the face of more challenging economic 
conditions. We are, therefore, encouraged by our future prospects which are underpinned by the pressing 
need for corporates to protect intellectual property throughout the economic cycle. 
With a strong fi nancial position, good forward sales visibility and plans in place to more than compensate 
for the potential effects of the London Agreement by organic expansion and selective acquisitions, we are 
confi dent that our chosen strategy will deliver further growth in 2008 and that the dividend will continue to 
advance in line with that growth.
Andrew Brode Executive Chairman
10 December 2007
Executive Chairman's Statement (continued) Board of Directors at 30 September 2007
 RWS Holdings plc
4