 Chairman's statement
4
per share. This makes a total of 44 US cents
per share for the year, an increase of 16%
over last year. This dividend is covered 
2.5 times by adjusted earnings per share.
Expanding the portfolio
The highlight of the year was our merger
with Grupo Empresarial Bavaria, the second
largest brewer in South America and clear
market leader in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador
and Panama. A successful business in 
its own right, Bavaria will make a major
contribution to our portfolio. It consolidates
our position as world number two and will
make Latin America our second biggest
source of profits after South Africa. As a
result of this transaction, we now have
leading positions on five continents and a
new platform for growth in South America. 
Combined with our positions in Russia,
Africa, China and India, Bavaria weights 
the portfolio even more towards young,
developing markets. While some were
sceptical when we started investing in 
newer territories in the 1990s, we are now
positioned in many markets where beer
consumption is growing faster than the
global average - giving us a higher
 embedded' growth rate than most of our
key competitors. Our ability to succeed 
in developing markets (a skill we owe to 
our African origins) has proved to be a
competitive advantage on the world stage. 
Today, our portfolio is well balanced
between developing markets offering high
potential for growth and developed markets
characterised by strong cash flow. The
capital markets have recognised the value 
of this combination and have rewarded
SABMiller with a 37% increase in share price
in the 12 months to 31 March 2006. As a
result, the total return to shareholders since
our UK listing in 1999 is 215% compared
Dear shareholder
We have delivered another 12 months 
of good performance following two years 
of outstanding results. As I mentioned last
year, the recent exceptional growth was
unlikely to continue, especially after a period
in which currency rates had run so much in
our favour. 
However, we are pleased with the year's
results, with strong growth in volumes,
margins and earnings. Our beverage
volumes were 176 million hectolitres of lager
and a further 45 million hectolitres of other
beverages. Adjusted earnings were 22%
higher at US$1,497 million, translating into
an 11% increase in comparable adjusted
earnings per share.
At US$3,291 million, net cash inflow
from our operations was 18% higher 
than the prior year and reflects the overall
strength of the trading performance and the
group's enlargement. At the year end, the
group's gearing stood at 52.1% compared
to 25.2% (restated) a year previously. The
rise reflects the increase in debt following
the Bavaria transaction. 
In the light of this good performance -
particularly the strong cash flow - the board
has proposed a final dividend of 31 US cents
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
Share price   sterling
12.00
10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
01 02 03
2 April 2001 - 31 March 2006
04 06 05 5
with 20% for the FTSE 100 as a whole (as
measured on 31 March 2006). As the global
industry continues to consolidate, our task is
to keep ahead by taking advantage of the
scale and spread of our business and brand
portfolio to generate greater value.  
Operational highlights
Our businesses in South Africa continue 
to do well, although volumes were affected
by an abnormally wet summer and the
absence of an Easter period in the year. 
One beneficial effect of the buoyant South
African economy is to enable consumers to
move from the mainstream to the premium
sector of the market where we've now
launched our three international premium
brands - Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner Urquell
and, more recently, Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
This effect has contributed to a good
increase in profitability.
In North America, the initial three-year
turnaround phase at Miller is now complete.
The initial aims of halting the operational
decline of the business and establishing a
solid platform for future growth have been
achieved. In the process, Miller positioned
itself as challenger to the market leader. 
Not surprisingly the leader has retaliated, 
and sought to protect its market share by
discounting prices. While we take this as
evidence of Miller's success, it has 
produced some tough trading conditions 
in the last year. 
It was another strong year in Europe. 
Of our two biggest operations, Poland
performed well and the Czech business
gained share in a static market. There were
good results in Russia and encouraging
signs in Italy with the Peroni brands growing
for the first time in many years. In Slovakia,
our acquisition of the Topvar brewery has
brought our share of the market to 25%.
In Africa, we again benefited from having
a broad enough portfolio to compensate for
the ups and downs of individual countries.
Botswana slipped as a result of difficult
economic conditions, but Tanzania, Uganda
and Mozambique continued to do well. 
The big story in China is the success of
the Snow brand, which we've grown from 
a small regional brand into China's largest
national brand. With a 52% increase in sales
during the year, Snow is now one of the 10
biggest lager brands in the world. We've
continued to improve our national sales and
distribution network while the acquisition of
Qingyuan Brewery has given us our first
plant in the south east province of Fujian.
As mentioned last year, we bought out
our joint venture partner in India in May
2005. The Indian beer industry is growing,
but is held back by heavy regulation. In
those states that have begun to liberalise,
the results show what could happen when
the rest of the country follows. In the
meantime, we continue to invest in
preparation for future growth.  
In November we acquired the
outstanding minority interest in our Central
American joint venture. Trading conditions
continue to be competitive in both our
countries in the region. Soft drink volumes
increased, but beer volumes fell as a result
of higher excise on beer in El Salvador.
Corporate social responsibility 
Given our economic and social influence 
in so many parts of the world, we are
constantly examining how we can best
contribute to the countries and communities
in which we operate. Our first priority is
simply to run a successful business, thereby
generating taxes and creating jobs and
wealth for local people. In addition, we try 
to build value chains that offer opportunities
for local businesses, be they in farming, 
the manufacture of packaging, distribution
or retail.
In the past year, we've formalised our
approach by establishing a sustainable
development framework consisting of 10
environmental and social priorities from the
use of water and the treatment of waste to
human rights and policies on HIV/AIDS.
These now apply across all our wholly
owned operations. 
One of those 10 priorities is to promote
responsibility in the consumption of alcohol.
Far from being an add-on, this requirement
informs every part of our business from
marketing and point-of-sale material to
educational programmes and research 
into alcohol-related issues.
Corporate governance
We continue to observe the strictest
standards of corporate governance. We
believe our reporting has always been open
and transparent, but this year we refined 
our reporting practices in the light of the
requirements of the Business Review.
We also believe we have a board of
exceptional quality. As part of the Bavaria
transaction, the former majority owners, the
Santo Domingo family, gained a 15% share
in SABMiller and the right to nominate two
representatives to the group board. We were
therefore pleased to appoint Alejandro Santo
Domingo D vila and Carlos Alejandro P rez
D vila as new non-executive directors. 
One consequence of these appointments
was to set back our efforts to meet the
independence requirements of the
Combined Code. In working towards 
a stronger balance of independent
representation on the board, we 
appointed Liz Doherty as an independent
non-executive director from 1 April 2006. 
Along with our new directors, we
welcome the employees and contractors
who have come to the group from Bavaria
and other companies acquired during the
year. They join a workforce that any global
business would be proud to employ and
whose contribution this year has been
magnificent. 
In paying tribute to Graham Mackay, 
his executive team and all our staff, I would
also like to thank our many business partners
and of course you, our shareholders, for
your support during the year. 
The 2006 results represent a year of
good performance following two years of
outstanding growth. The group's global
footprint and its portfolio of businesses and
brands, which have been enhanced by the
Bavaria transaction, position it well to make
further progress in the current year.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
Many years of well-judged acquisitions, successful integration
and constant operational improvement have created a group
with strong potential for further growth. Its inbuilt strengths
are reflected in the year's results and will continue to be
realised as we implement our strategic priorities. 