 The fact that we've been able to deliver such a good
performance is testament to the strength of our brands 
and the group's operational capability.
4 Chairman's statement
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
Chairman's statement
in the price of barley and hops. At the
same time, rising oil prices have put up 
the cost of transport, glass and aluminium.
Despite higher input costs, we've been
able to maintain our group margin this year
at 17.4%, which is quite an achievement 
as the Chief Financial Officer explains in 
his review.
Given the medium-term growth momentum 
in our business we continue to make
substantial investments. In recent months
we've been upgrading our breweries,
building new facilities in countries such as
Colombia, Russia and China and investing
in sales and distribution in the form of new
bottles and fridges. As a result, our overall
investment has almost doubled from just
over US$1.2 billion to US$2.0 billion over
the past 12 months and will remain high 
in the current year.
Also essential to our future growth 
is our ability to address the social and
environmental issues that affect the health
and prosperity of the communities in which
we operate. As we describe more fully on
page 30, we're guided in this respect by
10 social and environmental priorities. Two
years on from introducing these priorities,
we're at the point where every SABMiller
business has either reached the minimum
level of compliance with all ten or has a
plan to do so. 
Operational highlights
In October 2007, we announced our
intention to combine Miller with the US 
and Puerto Rico operations of another
great US brewing company, Coors. 
The proposed joint venture will create 
a stronger, brand-led US brewer with 
the scale, resources and distribution
capabilities to operate more effectively 
in the increasingly competitive US
marketplace. We hope to complete
the transaction in mid-2008.
The other main highlight of the year 
was our acquisition of the Dutch company,
Royal Grolsch N.V. With its rich northern
European heritage, the Grolsch brand is
not only a powerful addition to SABMiller's
portfolio but also we hope it will open 
new doors in premium markets around 
the world. 
In Latin America we continued our
programme of investment and raising 
the perception of the beer category. 
Market overview
There has been increasing uncertainty 
over the last 12 months about the 
health of the global economy and this 
has translated into substantial falls in
financial markets. Against this background,
SABMiller's share price has outperformed
the FTSE100 by 9.4% and our position in
the ranking of the top 100 companies by
market capitalisation has improved one
place to stand at number 25, as calculated
on 31 March 2008.
We have benefited from our bias towards
developing markets where we have well
established and advantageous positions.
We are number one in China, through our
associate CR Snow, and in the Andean
region of Latin America, and the second
biggest brewer in India. We supply six 
out of every ten beers drunk in Africa, 
if you include our Castel Alliance. Growth 
in our key markets still outstrips the global
average and is predicted to remain strong
over the medium term. 
The question is how well the developing
world will survive the slowdown in the
global economy. In most of these markets,
the economic fundamentals are sounder
than those in developed markets.
Commentators generally believe that 
Asia will remain economically dynamic.
Africa's ability to continue growing is less
predictable, but its strong momentum,
falling debt levels and improving balances
of trade suggest that the continent's
economies will prove resilient. Despite 
high interest rates in the short term in
countries such as Colombia, we also 
see robust economic growth continuing 
in Latin America. 
One effect of the recent rapid growth 
in developing markets is that national
infrastructures have sometimes failed 
to keep pace - witness the recent power
shortages in South Africa. A period of
slower growth will allow infrastructure
investment to catch up, as is now
happening in South Africa where business
and government are working together 
to address the issues. 
Although rising demand for commodities
has helped to create strong demand 
for our beers in commodity-producing
countries, the same trend has added to 
our costs as a brewer with sharp increases
Dear Shareholder:
This strong out-turn to the year is
particularly pleasing given the scale of 
the challenge we faced at its outset, 
with exceptional prior-year comparatives,
rising input costs and an increasingly
competitive environment in many of our
markets. It is a clear testament to the
strength of our brands and the group's
operational capability that we have been
able to deliver such a good performance.
In the event, total beverage volumes 
grew 6% to 288 million hectolitres 
and earnings before interest, tax and
amortisation (EBITA) increased by 15% 
to US$4.1 billion, translating into profit
before tax of US$3.3 billion. This reflects
the benefits of price increases, higher sales
of premium brands, gains in productivity
and the strength of a number of currencies.
Adjusted earnings per share benefited 
also from a lower tax rate, growing 19% 
to 143.1 US cents. 
In the light of this strong performance, the
board has recommended a final dividend 
of 42 US cents per share, bringing the total
for the year to 58 US cents per share - 
an increase of 16%. 
Net cash generated from our operations, 
at US$4.3 billion, was 6% above the prior
year. Our gearing increased, as expected,
to 49.7%, mainly as a result of higher
borrowings to fund acquisitions and
the substantial US$2.0 billion capital
investment programme discussed below.
Meyer Kahn, Chairman Chairman's statement 5
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
During the year both Andr  Parker,
Managing Director of SABMiller Africa 
and Asia, and Norman Adami, President
and CEO of SABMiller Americas, retired. 
As long serving executives they have 
both made significant and enduring
contributions to the business and will 
be greatly missed. The group has been
fortunate in having a number of long-
serving executives who have shown 
their dedication and commitment to 
the company over many decades. In this
regard I congratulate the Chief Executive,
Graham Mackay, on completing 30 years
service, 11 years leading the company,
and wish him continued success.
I am grateful to all my board colleagues for
their guidance and advice - not to mention
their invaluable contribution in upholding
the highest standards of corporate
governance. The recent board changes 
will enhance the balance of independence
on the board, while continuing the process 
of progressive renewal.
Finally, I would like to welcome to the
SABMiller family our new colleagues from
Grolsch and to thank all our executives,
managers and staff who have worked
extremely hard to produce the current 
set of results. I am also indebted to our
many business partners and to you, 
our shareholders, for your support.
Outlook
This has been another year of strong
growth for the group. In the current year,
volume growth in the first half will be
affected by high comparative growth 
rates, and pressure on input costs will
continue to increase although pricing 
and mix benefits are again expected to
compensate for these cost increases. 
The economic outlook across our global
footprint, which is biased towards growth
markets in developing countries, remains
positive, and we will continue to benefit
from the strength of our brands,
operational capability and investment 
for growth.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
However, reported EBITA declined by 
7%, reflecting lower premium volumes 
and significant cost increases in brewing
materials and distribution, and a weakening
of the local currency. 
Board and executive
It is now nine years since the company
listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
We have been fortunate to retain the
services of several distinguished non-
executive directors for the whole of that
period, benefiting considerably from their
insight and experience. The board does
not consider it to be in the interests of the
company to require all four of the directors
who have served for nine years to retire 
at the same time, favouring continuity 
and stability through orderly succession.
Accordingly, we have announced, at 
his own request, the retirement of Robin
Renwick and the appointment of two 
new independent directors.
Robin Renwick has made a unique and
important contribution to your company's
success, both pre- and post-listing. He 
has been a diligent and committed director,
chairing almost all the board committees 
at various times during his tenure. I thank
him most warmly for his efforts.
Our two new directors joined the board 
on 15 May. Rob Pieterse is Chairman of the
supervisory boards of Mercurius Groep B.V.
and Royal Grolsch N.V. and was formerly
Chairman of Wolters Kluwer N.V. Maria
Ramos is Group Chief Executive of South
Africa's largest transport, infrastructure 
and logistics firm, Transnet Limited, having
previously been Director-General of the
South African National Treasury. 
While the full benefits are yet to be 
realised, progress has been in line with 
our expectations with lager volumes up 
5% against an exceptional prior-year
performance, and EBITA rising 17%.
Europe delivered another excellent result
with organic lager volume growth of 8%
and reported EBITA up by 30%. Volumes
were particularly strong in Poland, Romania 
and Russia while stronger pricing and
improved productivity more than offset
higher input costs.
In North America, Miller Brewing 
Company made good progress in
reshaping its portfolio to address higher-
margin, higher-growth segments of the
market while also achieving price gains 
and a segment-leading 1.1% growth in
sales for its flagship brand, Miller Lite.
Reported EBITA grew by 27%, mainly 
as a result of strong pricing, higher
volumes and productivity and a 
one-off reduction in canning costs. 
The strong growth in Africa and Asia
continued with lager volumes growing
organically by 15%. Our African operations
benefited from robust economic conditions
and a major investment programme is
under way to meet growing demand.
In China, the Snow brand enjoyed
exceptional growth of 63%, cementing 
its position among the top three beer
brands in the world. EBITA for the region
increased by 22% to US$568 million.
Finally, in South Africa, SAB Ltd posted 
a satisfactory result, maintaining sales
volumes despite losing a major premium
beer brand before the start of the year.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Share price
 
1 April 2003 to 31 March 2008
(  sterling) 
03
3.00
9.00
6.00
International brewers index
SABMiller
15.00
12.00
04 05 06 07 08
Source: Thomson Datastream