 2
Introduction 
The results for the year to 30 September 2007 show that
revenue has grown by 14% to  18.17m, and adjusted
operating profit has grown by 6% to  3.47m.
During the year the Group increased its presence in the 
multi-channel retail market by acquiring the Elucid business in
February 2007 and Retail Business Solutions Group Limited
(RBS) in September 2007.
The Group now offers solutions across the full range of the
multi-channel retail market; from point of sale systems to back
office, head office, mail order, e-commerce and fulfilment
functions, plus niche sectors such as wholesale distribution.
With customers ranging from major high street retailers to
start-up mail order businesses, the Group is well placed to
benefit from activity levels in this strategic sector.
Financial results 
Group sales for the year increased by 14% to  18.17m from
 15.90m last year. The increase reflects the growth in the
multi-channel retail business, which is expected to account 
for around three quarters of Group revenues in the year to 
30 September 2008.
Adjusted operating profit for the year rose by 6% to  3.47m
against  3.28m last year, whilst profit before tax declined
from  2.16m to  1.94m as a result of a  0.3m increase in 
the charge for amortisation of acquisition related intangibles. 
The tax charge for the Group was  589,000, (an effective 
rate of 30.4%), compared with a tax credit of  17,000 in the
comparative period. This increase in the tax charge led to 
the adjusted basic earnings per share falling from 7.6 pence 
to 6.1 pence. Had the effective rate of 30.4% applied last
year, adjusted basic earnings per share would have been 
6.0 pence. 
Cash balances increased to  935,000 from  463,000 in the
comparative period, with over 100% of operating profit from
continuing activities being converted to cash. The acquisitions
were financed substantially by bank debt and net debt
increased to  11.7m (2006:  2.5m) as a result. Whilst this level
of debt represents 3.4 times the reported adjusted operating
profit for the year, the timing of the Retail Business Solutions
acquisition, two weeks before the year end, added in excess
of  9m to the year end debt figure but contributed less than
 100,000 to operating profit. 
As reported in the interim results the Group carried out a
strategic review of its products aimed at the mid-tier mail
order and e-commerce market, following the acquisition of
Elucid. This resulted in a decision to rationalise development
costs and discontinue further development of an existing
product. The discontinued operation incurred a loss of
 385,000 after tax during the year, inclusive of all closure
costs. In the comparative period the same operation incurred
a loss of  183,000. The 2006 results have been restated to
show all revenue and costs relating to this operation as being
from discontinued operations.
Dividend
The Board is keen to ensure that shareholders benefit from 
the trading performance of the Group through a progressive
dividend policy. Subject to approval at the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, expected to be held on 14 February
2008, a final dividend of 1.55 pence per ordinary share is
proposed and will be paid on 14 March 2008 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 22 February 2008.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.15 pence per ordinary
share, this final dividend represents a total dividend for the
year of 2.7 pence, an increase of 4%.
Business review 
The Group provides a wide range of software solutions to
the multi-channel retail and manufacturing sectors. These
solutions consist of our own software together with third party
products, which are installed and supported directly by
Sanderson staff. This approach ensures a high quality,
responsive service is delivered to customers and that the
Group can maintain tight control over its operations.
The Group has a proven business model that generates a
significant proportion of revenue from annual software
licences and support services. These recurring revenues
represented  9.43m of revenue in the year to 30 September
2007, some 52% of total revenue (2006:  8.84m, 56% of
revenue) and demonstrate the benefits of a large, established
customer base. A further  7.31m or 40% of revenue, is
generated from the provision of additional products and
services to customers (2006:  5.61m, 35%) with new business
accounting for the balance of  1.43m (2006:  1.45m).
Review of multi-channel retail business
The multi-channel retail business accounted for 63% of 
Group revenue in the year to 30 September 2007, with sales
of  11.49m representing growth of 35% against the previous
year figure of  8.50m. Having been acquired on 14 September
2007, RBS made a small contribution to Group revenue 
and we anticipate a substantial increase in sales for the 
multi-channel retail business in the coming year.
Sales to new multi-channel retail clients in the year grew by
over 50% compared with the previous year and included new
clients such as Group 4 Securicor Sweden and the Royal
Botanical Gardens, Kew.
In February 2007, the Group acquired the business and 
assets of the Elucid multi-channel software business for a
consideration of  1.40m. Elucid has a good product offering
Chairman's statement 3
aimed at the mid-tier mail order and e-commerce market and
has over 50 existing customers. Elucid has now been fully
integrated and forms an important part of the Sanderson
multi-channel retail business, providing sophisticated solutions
for our customers.
The Group acquired RBS for up to  14m in cash and shares.
RBS, formed in 1988, is a well established provider of
solutions to the retail sector, and markets and supports
solutions which provide front and back office electronic 
point of sale systems including the highly successful 
Retail-J software, together with a full range of IT services. 
RBS employs 74 people, bringing the total number of
employees for the Group to around 300. 
With approximately 200 RBS customers throughout the UK
and Ireland, including Blacks Leisure, Harrods and French
Connection, the combined Sanderson customer base now
consists of over 600 retail and multi-channel clients. The
enlarged and enhanced Sanderson product and services
portfolio should provide good opportunities for cross-selling,
and the managed service capability within RBS provides an
exciting opportunity to further develop the Group. The
success of RBS in gaining new clients, with recent additions
including Slater Menswear and Wyevale Garden Centres, is
expected to provide further momentum for future growth. 
The integration of RBS into the wider multi-channel retail
business is progressing.
Following the RBS acquisition the Group's profile has changed
significantly and we expect around three quarters of revenue
to originate within the multi-channel retail business, with the
manufacturing business accounting for the balance.
The growth of online sales continues to generate activity
within retail, e-commerce and mail order businesses.
Increasing security requirements have generated additional
revenues for the Group and products and services aimed at
exploiting this demand are being marketed to customers and
potential new clients.
Review of manufacturing business
The manufacturing business accounted for 37% ( 6.68m) of
Group revenue in the year to 30 September 2007 (2006:
 7.40m, 46%) and continues to provide IT solutions to a large
customer base in sectors such as print, food, engineering,
plastics, electronics and furniture. Revenue declined when
compared to 2006, largely as a result of slow trading reported
in the first half of the current year. As anticipated, activity
levels and order intake improved in the second half and the
business ended the year with a strong trading performance.
This is expected to continue into 2008.
There were some notable successes in the print sector,
including large orders from Magnadata, Richard Clay and
Anstey Wallcoverings. The manufacturing business remains
highly profitable, with operating margins in excess of 15% of
revenue, and demonstrates the value of the intellectual
property software model.
Strategy
Our primary aim is to continue to develop the Group by a
combination of organic growth complemented by selective
acquisitions. By ensuring that our business model delivers
high levels of profit and cash, we are able to pursue a
progressive dividend policy for the benefit of shareholders. 
We continue to consider acquisition opportunities as they 
are identified, but our primary focus in the coming year is to
integrate the recent acquisitions and to deliver the benefits
available from this integration.
Staff
The two acquisitions completed during the year have
increased employee numbers to just over 300 and we 
would like to welcome our new employees to the enlarged
Group. We would also like to thank our colleagues for their
commitment, expertise and continued dedication in working
with our customers and partners.
Outlook
We have previously stated our intention  to accelerate the 
rate of progress' and the 2007 acquisitions together with the
February 2006 acquisition of Retail Systems have nearly
doubled the size of the Group.
The second half trading performance of the Group has been
strong and we have made a good start to the new financial
year. Sanderson is well positioned and has an opportunity to
deliver further value in the coming year.
Christopher Winn
Chairman
18 December 2007