 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
SAVANNAH RESOURCES PLC. - ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013  Page 1 
It is with positive reflection that I write my second 
Chairman's Statement for your Company which 
has achieved much, and been transformed 
significantly, in the last year. This advance, 
underscored by the change in name from African 
Mining & Exploration Plc to Savannah Resources 
Plc, has included the announcement of a maiden 
JORC resource (which was subsequently 
securitised into a strategic investment in Alecto 
Minerals Plc (Alecto ), the recapitalisation of the 
Company with around  3 million of investment 
inflows, and an overhaul of the Company's 
exploration portfolio which saw the acquisition of 
a heavy mineral sands project in a world class 
mineral sands province in Mozambique plus 
entering into an agreement to acquire two copper 
projects in Oman's highly prospective Semail 
Ophiolite belt which is expected to be completed 
in May 2014. 
 
The Company's current investment portfolio 
demonstrates a diversification of commodities, 
geographies and investment types and underlies 
the significant progress that has been made by the 
Company on its journey to becoming a leading 
diversified multi-commodity exploration and 
development company. This is especially pleasing 
considering the modest expenditure to achieve the 
progress and the reduced country and commodity 
risks that the Company now faces. 
 
Under the direction of the Board the recent 
transformation process has been ably led by the 
Company's CEO David Archer. The Company's 
former CEO, Mark Jones, was appointed as CEO of 
Alecto Minerals where he continues his valued 
stewardship of the Kossanto Gold Project. The 
transformation included renaming the Company 
from African Mining & Exploration Plc to Savannah 
Resources Plc to underscore the change in 
strategy. 
 
Jangamo Heavy Mineral Sands - Mozambique 
In October 2013 the Company acquired an 80% 
interest in the Jangamo Heavy Mineral Sands 
Project in a world class mineral sands province in 
Mozambique. This borders Rio Tinto's Mutamba 
deposit, one of two major deposits Rio Tinto has 
defined in Mozambique, that collectively have an 
exploration target of 7-12Bt at 3-4.5% total heavy 
minerals (THM ). A scout drilling programme, 
which commenced within one month of the 
acquisition, has confirmed that the style of 
mineralisation at Jangamo is similar to that 
reported by Rio Tinto. 
 
 
 
 
Copper Projects in Oman 
In April 2014 the Company announced it had 
entered into an agreement to acquire interests in 
the Block 5 (65%) and Block 6 (up to 70%) copper 
projects in Oman from Gentor Resources Limited. 
The acquisition is expected to be completed in 
May 2014. 
 
The projects in the Semail Ophiolite, the world's 
largest and best preserved thrust sheet of oceanic 
crust and upper mantle, provide Savannah with an 
excellent opportunity to potentially evolve into a 
mid-tier copper producer in a relatively short time 
frame.  Small to medium sized Cyprus-type Cu-Au 
volcanic massive sulphide deposits have been 
worked in the Semail Ophiolite since ancient 
times. Modern exploration has identified many 
small to medium sized high grade copper deposits 
within the belt which as yet have not been brought 
into production. Together with our Omani 
partners, Savannah will look for ways to aggregate 
and explore as many of these opportunities as 
possible with a view to providing the critical mass 
for constructing a central operating plant to realise 
the value of the deposits. 
 
Mali Portfolio - JORC Resource and Divestment 
Following the acquisition of Caracal Gold Mali 
SARL (Caracal ) in July 2012, the Company's 
experienced team was able to fast track an 
exploration programme leading to the 
announcement of a maiden Mineral Resource of 
107,000 Oz gold in June 2013. As part of the 
Company's portfolio transformation this project 
was sold in October 2013 to Alecto for  1.25 
million worth of shares in Alecto. In March 2014 
the remainder of the Company's exploration 
portfolio in Mali was sold to Alecto for  250,000 
worth of shares in Alecto. 
 
Strategic Investment in Alecto Minerals Plc 
As a result of the sale of the projects and a cash 
investment of  500,000 in Alecto, the Company 
owns an effective 20.9% strategic shareholding in 
Alecto. This provides Savannah with exposure to 
both the highly prospective Kossanto Gold Project 
in the prolific Kenieba inlier in Mali and also to the 
Wayu Boda and Aysid Meketel gold / base metal 
projects in Ethiopia for which Alecto has a joint 
venture with Centamin Plc. Under this joint 
venture, Centamin Plc is committing up to a total 
of US$14m in exploration funding to earn up to 
70% of each project. The Company's former CEO 
Mark Jones became CEO of Alecto when the sale 
of the Kossanto Project was concluded and I hold 
the position of Chairman of Alecto. 
   CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
SAVANNAH RESOURCES PLC. - ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013  Page 2 
Annual General Meeting 
At the forthcoming AGM the Shareholders will be 
asked to renew the usual equity securities issue 
authorities, which this year include a resolution in 
respect of a Share Exchange Agreement to acquire 
an 80% shareholding in Matilda Minerals Lda. This 
requires your Company to issue up to AUD 
1,500,000 in shares as deferred consideration 
establishment of a JORC Indicated Resource of 
500Mt @ 3% THM at the Jangamo project. The 
financing agreement entered into with Bergen 
which the Company entered into to provide 
security of funding as it expands its exploration 
portfolio, whilst providing robust protections for 
existing shareholders based on stringent 
restrictions around short selling and trading 
volumes. I hope you will once again support the 
Board by putting these authorities in place. 
 
Additionally, the Directors appointed since the last 
AGM, are required to be offered for re-election in 
line with the Company's Articles of Association. I 
commend their re-election to you as an 
endorsement of the Company's stewardship. 
 
Financial 
Whilst the Company had a cash position of  1.76 
million at 31 December 2012, the Board 
recognised the financing challenges for the junior 
exploration sector and took the pro-active 
decision, announced on 1 March 2013, to 
implement prudent cash preservation measures. 
Of the appointments to the Board in 2013, the 
Non-Executive Directors and the CEO were eligible 
for initial nominal salaries of  1 each while the 
recapitalisation of the Company was put in place. 
 
These prudent measures, combined with; the 
securitisation of the Company's Mali exploration 
portfolio; cash placements of approximately  3 
million; and a financing agreement with Bergen 
Global Opportunity Fund, LP (Bergen ) offering 
up to $5.5 million cash in the next 11 months, have 
resulted in the Company being in a very strong 
financial position to undertake exploration of its 
current portfolio and potential new projects. The 
agreement with Bergen provides robust 
protections for existing shareholders based on 
stringent preventive restrictions around short-
selling and trading volumes and was carefully 
crafted with Bergen to provide flexibility in various 
market scenarios. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In line with the prudent management concepts, 
the Company has built a solid base of assets with 
over  4 million in cash and equity securities at the 
reporting date. At 6 May 2014 the Company's cash 
balance was  2.14 million and it held equity 
securities in Alecto worth  1.72 million. 
Social Responsibility 
The Company, and its management, are cognisant 
of its social and environmental responsibilities in 
the areas in which we operate and are committed 
to the development and maintenance of good 
relationships with stakeholder communities. To 
this end, the board has formulated a Health, 
Safety, Environment and Community Relations 
policy that focuses on the positive interaction with 
all stakeholders. This policy has been adopted and 
already forms the basis for effective community 
relations in our permit areas. 
 
Board Changes 
In July and September 2013 David Archer began 
the process of recapitalising the Company with a 
cash investment of  500,000 for ordinary shares in 
the Company and his appointment to CEO was 
confirmed in August 2013. David brings a wealth of 
experience in the junior and mid-tier resources 
industry and has successfully led both Savage 
Resources and Hillgrove Resources from microcap 
companies to companies valued at approximately 
$400M AUD and $200M AUD respectively at the 
time of leaving. 
 
Dale Ferguson joined the Board as Technical 
Director in October 2013 and is an outstanding 
geologist with extensive commercial experience.  
He has been integral to building the Company's 
evolving exploration portfolio and will be 
instrumental in continuing the growth of the 
Company. 
 
Mark Jones retired as a Director and CEO of the 
Company in 2013 and I would like to thank him for 
his hard work in establishing your company from 
its formation. Recognition is particularly deserved 
for his foresight in the acquisition of the Kossanto 
Gold Project that he now leads in his role of CEO of 
Alecto. 
 
Outlook 
Following the change in strategic direction 
announced in July 2013 the Company has 
successfully delivered on its stated goals. 
Furthermore it has received significant interest 
and support from the investment community 
which has resulted in the Company having a strong 
current financial position. 
 
   CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
SAVANNAH RESOURCES PLC. - ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013  Page 3 
We continue to build your Company into a leading 
diversified multi-commodity exploration and 
development entity, utilising the strengths of 
experienced professionals and partners to deliver 
significant investment return with managed risk 
and considering: the Company's recent 
transformation; it's strategic investment in Alecto 
which offers exposure without any funding 
requirements or management time to a very 
attractive portfolio of gold exploration projects in 
sub-Saharan Africa; the Company's own highly 
prospective exploration portfolio; the leadership 
provided by David Archer; and the healthy 
financial and funding position. In combination 
these provide a firm foundation for your Company 
to move forward positively in 2014.  
 
The Company's own exploration projects in 
Mozambique and Oman provide a solid foundation 
in their own right and also facilitate the possibility 
to add further attractively-priced prospective 
projects via strategic acquisitions or joint venture 
arrangements. 
 
Finally, we have a small team of dedicated staff 
and on behalf of the Company I would like to 
thank them for their significant efforts during the 
year and I look forward to the coming year, which I 
hope will be exciting and rewarding for the 
Company and all its shareholders. 
 
 
 
 
Mike Johnson 
Chairman 
 
Date: 8 May 2014 
 
 