 06
Scottish and Southern Energy  
Annual Report 2010
In SSE, the Chairman (Lord Smith of 
Kelvin, below right) is responsible for  
the operation of the Board, ensuring  
it works effectively. The Chief Executive  
(Ian Marchant, below left) is responsible 
for the management of the business, 
implementing the strategy and policies 
agreed by the Board. Here they answer 
key questions about SSE's performance 
and plans for the future.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Questions and answers
How would you sum up SSE's 
performance in 2009/10?
Robert k It was business as usual, in that 
the Company delivered a 2.9% increase in 
adjusted profit before tax* and the Board  
is recommending a 6.1% increase in the 
full-year dividend. Since it was formed in 
1998, SSE has achieved 11 successive years 
of increasing profits and dividend. That's 
quite a track record to build on in the future.
Ian k Solid. As well as turning in a sound 
financial performance, we continued to 
lead the sector in customer service in both 
energy supply and electricity distribution. 
Our power stations and electricity networks 
performed well. Most encouragingly of all, 
our safety performance was the best ever 
in SSE's history. We want to make it better 
still, and safety will continue to be a big 
priority in 2010/11.
What was the rationale for the new 
dividend targets for 2010/11 onwards?
Ian k In the half-year results in November 
2009, we said that our priority in setting 
new dividend targets would be to make 
sure that they are realistic and attainable, 
thereby giving shareholders the fullest 
possible confidence in their achievability. 
That's what our targets for dividend growth 
are designed to do. We believe that a target 
of annual real dividend growth of at least  
2% in each of the three years to March 2013 
is the right way forward.
You've always said dividend growth  
is supported by investment, and SSE's 
capital and investment expenditure  
is now well over  1bn a year. Are you 
confident of the Company's ability to 
manage investment on this scale?
Robert k Confident, yes; complacent, no. 
The SSE team has managed a wide range 
of capital investment projects over the last 
few years and delivered major new assets. 
That said, some projects have taken 
longer than expected and there have  
been difficulties at others. So we have  
no grounds for complacency. The positive 
thing, however, is that capital investment  
is an area in which SSE has now built up 
significant experience and capability. That's 
what gives me confidence for the future. Introduction to SSE
Directors' report
Financial statements
Shareholder information
07
Ian k The assets we are developing are 
intended to last for decades and any 
short-term difficulties obviously have to 
be seen in that context. We do continually 
evaluate our investment programme and 
have no doubt that the value needed to 
support our new dividend growth targets, 
and sustained real growth over the long 
term, is being created.
Did the Board review SSE's strategy in 
2009/10 and, if so, what was the outcome?
Robert k We did have lengthy discussions 
on strategy, to make sure that sustained 
annual real growth in the dividend, which 
is our first responsibility to shareholders,  
is deliverable. Those discussions 
confirmed that our strategy - operating 
and investing in a range of market-based 
and economically-regulated energy 
businesses - is right for the future.
Are you confident about the Company's 
ability to finance investment on the scale 
that's likely to be necessary over the 
next few years?
Ian k Yes. SSE is a well-financed company 
with a strong balance sheet, which is 
carefully maintained. We've also shown 
that we will move quickly to take the right 
financing options, including bonds, loans 
and, should new investment or acquisition 
opportunities arise, equity.
Robert k Maintaining a strong balance 
sheet is one of SSE's key financial 
principles the Board sticks to. Another  
is making sure that investments are  
well-founded. They should be capable of 
earning returns above the cost of capital 
and they should enhance earnings and 
contribute to dividend growth.
Are dividends being paid and investments 
being financed by keeping household 
energy prices higher than they need to be?
Ian k No. Unit prices started coming down 
in March last year and we followed that  
up with another package of changes this 
March. Household bills are also coming 
down because all the energy efficiency 
investment we've made in recent years is 
now really working, with gas consumption 
falling over the last few years. That is the 
sustainable way forward, in every sense.
Energy bills are controversial and so is 
Executive remuneration. The Association 
of British Insurers has said that Executive 
Directors' remuneration should be 
designed to  contribute to the creation  
of sustainable long term value'. Do you 
think that is the case at SSE?
Robert k Yes, without a doubt. SSE's team 
of Executive Directors are obviously well-
paid but they are certainly not over-paid. 
They have all been with the Company since 
it was formed in 1998, and they are clearly 
delivering sustainable long-term value. 
Under their leadership, SSE has increased 
profits and dividends every year, while 
improving service to customers and 
investing in the country's energy future.
Does SSE have strength in depth  
among its employees?
Ian k As Executive Directors, Colin Hood, 
Gregor Alexander, Alistair Phillips-Davies 
and I all depend on the excellent work 
done by the rest of the management  
team and everyone else throughout SSE.  
I might be the captain, but I'm only one 
member of an experienced, committed 
and talented team and it's a privilege to 
work with them. This is an organisation 
that is built to last, and I believe we have 
the strength in depth to make sure it will.
Employee issues, Executive 
remuneration and energy bills would 
often be tagged  corporate responsibility' 
issues. How does SSE handle the 
corporate responsibility agenda?
Robert k I've been involved with many 
companies over the years, and I've also 
done some work with the likes of Scottish 
Business in the Community, and I have  
to say I like the SSE approach. There is no 
corporate responsibility division. It's not  
an add-on. It's up to the Board and every 
employee to deliver responsible business 
practice every day. This approach is 
supported by a very strong set of core 
values and I think it works well.
Ian k We've taken the integrated approach 
a step further this year, and decided not to 
produce a separate Corporate Responsibility 
Report. There is a lot of information on our 
Company website, but the basic principle 
is that this Report should set out SSE's 
approach to, and performance in, business 
and should in itself enable people to judge 
whether SSE is a responsible company.
What are SSE's big priorities for 2010/11?
Ian k The same as every other year:  
safe working; excellent customer service; 
well-run power stations and energy 
networks; good progress on major capital 
investment projects; and cost efficiency.
Robert k I'd just like to add that the fact 
SSE's priorities are no different this year 
from last is a strength. It's when they start 
changing that you have to worry!
No two years are the same. Do any 
particular risks stand out for 2010/11?
Robert k Like any responsible Board,  
we take risk management very seriously. 
We have a pretty low appetite for risk and 
would never regard  boring' as a negative 
tag to be shaken off; quite the reverse. 
More specifically as a Board we'll again  
be keeping a close eye on the investment 
programme because of its scale and 
significance for the future.
Ian k 2010/11 will obviously be influenced 
by the uncertain economic outlook. 
However, SSE is in the business of 
providing something - energy - that 
people need, rather than want. We also 
set great store by having a balanced  
range of market-based and economically-
regulated businesses. So the economic 
risk is manageable and doesn't threaten 
our big priorities.
As we look at things in 2010, much of the 
focus for SSE's sector is already on 2020 
and the stretching EU and UK targets for 
renewable energy and carbon emissions 
reductions. What part do you think SSE 
can play over the next decade in 
achieving those targets?
Robert k I take a very hard-headed view  
of this. The world's natural resources  
are being used up at an unsustainable 
rate. That's why we have to make rapid 
progress in reducing dependency on 
carbon, and a successful SSE, capable of 
financing and delivering major investment 
programmes over the next decade and 
beyond, should be in a prime position to 
help in the transition towards a lower-
carbon economy.
Ian k We'll help customers transform  
the way they consume energy. We'll also 
invest in low-carbon energy production 
and better ways of distributing energy.  
We are very well-placed, having already 
made significant commitments to, and 
investments in, electricity generation, 
energy networks, supply and services.  
We have a low-carbon vision for SSE,  
and we're working hard to realise it.