 5
Chairman's Statement
Introduction 
2002 was a terrible year for the Group and a real set back. In
my Interim Statement of 17 December 2002 I set out in detail
what went wrong and the corrective measures taken by the
Board. The detail of the 2002 results is reported elsewhere in
this Annual Report. In this statement therefore, I wish to
present a balanced picture, which acknowledges past
problems, reports on current recovery and points the way to a
commercially successful future. The new management team
has made significant progress since the Company's re-listing
on 17 December 2002, as Adrian Merryman sets out in his first
Chief Executive's Report.
Steps have been taken to create a firm foundation from
which a healthy growth trajectory can be established.
Overview of Fiscal Year 2002 
As reported in December, accounting systems and reporting
disciplines broke down in parts of the business during the
early part of the year.The quality of information communicated
to the Board deteriorated and substantive questions were
raised over the validity of certain figures. This led to departures
from the Board, the temporary de-listing of the Company from
the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock
Exchange and a breach of bank covenants.
Following my appointment as Chairman, I entered into
discussions with the Company's brokers and bankers. To
stabilise the business, I directed an interim management team
to conduct a thorough review. The team determined that the
business was essentially sound, but that substantial
restructuring was required. This work was continued into the
current financial year.
In cold figures, the results for the year present a depressing
picture. There was an operating loss of  3.7m (2001,
as restated:  0.8m loss), before exceptional costs of  10.1m
(2001:  0.1m), on turnover of  18.7m (2001:  14.3m). Although
this indicates a growth in turnover of 31%, the two periods are
not directly comparable, as 2002 was the first period to
include a full year's trading from the 2001 acquisitions, most
noticeably Joyce-Loebl. A full commentary on the figures and
the adjustments is given in the Financial Review.
The loss for the financial year was  15.1m (2001, as restated:
 0.9m loss), after exceptional items of  10.1m, and the basic
loss per share was 27.8p (2001, as restated: 2p loss). The
exceptional items are discussed further in the Financial Review.
After the operating loss and exceptional items noted above
are taken into account the Group's Net Assets as at 31
December 2002 were  3.0m (2001, as restated:  15.0m). The
borrowings of the Group at the year end were  4.3m (2001:
 2.9m). The Group has continued to receive support from its
bankers and a new medium term loan facility is being finalised.
During the year the Group had a net cash outflow from
operating activities of  4.1m (2001, as restated:  4.1m).  3.4m
before expenses was raised during the year by means of
placings of new shares, which were used to fund the
acquisition of Joyce-Loebl and the Group's on-going working
capital requirements.
Dividends
The Board do not recommend a dividend payment.
The Board
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the
year: no executive director in place in June 2002 remains on
the Screen plc Board. Claes Bergstedt resigned as the CEO in
July 2002. In October 2002 the Finance Director, James Shand,
was dismissed from the Board; the Chairman and interim CEO,
Owen Williams, resigned; and I took over as Executive
Chairman. The Business Development Director, Richard Hill,
resigned in November 2002 and Mike Williams, having helped
the Group re-establish itself, also resigned in January 2003.
Geoff Carswell (Managing Director of Joyce-Loebl), was
appointed as an executive director on 17 July 2002. Adrian
Merryman, appointed CEO on 4 December 2002, and Tim
Wightman, who joined the Board as a non-executive director
on 31 March 2003, were a part of the interim management
team that I assembled during the re-organisation period. Both
have had an opportunity to gain a real insight into the Group's
operations and potential.   
6
The Current Position
The Group's products and services are aimed at helping
identify and address homeland security related threats. They
are used by the security services, emergency services and
defence forces as well as a wide range of commercial and
governmental organisations. Given the current global terrorist
concerns, the markets we address are growing and critical 
to our collective future.
The Group has an enviable client base with many of the 
most respected customers in the markets we serve. It has 
well recognised brands and high value-added products 
and services. The Chief Executive gives more information 
in his report.
In 2003 we have building on the work done in late 2002 as we
continue to:
  Implement appropriate accounting and cash management
processes to reflect more accurately our trading position
and conserve our working capital resources.
  Tackle in the operational divisions the culture change
required to inject commercial controls alongside
commitment to strong technology development.
  Focus on maximising the significant potential of our
current product and service offerings, and those emerging
from our product development pipeline.
  Expand our selling effort in the United States where the
homeland security market is embryonic. Our experience
selling into the UK market, where our customers have wide
experience in fighting terrorism over a prolonged period,
will provide us with a strong competitive advantage.
Staff
I should like to express my thanks to all the Group's employees
who have shown great commitment during a difficult year.
They have maintained an unbridled enthusiasm for their
products and services and the markets they serve.This
enthusiasm is reflected in the extraordinary lengths to which
they regularly go to serve their customers and the Group.
We are now building team spirit across the previously
segmented divisions, which is already showing benefit in 
the creative flow of ideas.
Outlook for 2003
The new management team, under Adrian Merryman, is
performing well and the Group is on a recovery path. We are
starting to unlock commercial potential from the strong
technology base, albeit at a slower pace than anticipated.
Although in the first quarter 2003 there was an operating loss,
reflecting the time needed to bed down the reorganisation
started in late 2002, in subsequent periods we expect to see an
increase in revenues and a move into profitability.
We are serving the growing homeland security related markets
with highly competitive products, often providing innovative
solutions.Through the efforts of management and staff,
we intend to rebuild shareholder value over the medium 
to long term.
IAN TA YLOR 
Chairman
16 May 2003
  
We are serving the growing Homeland Security
related markets with highly competitive products,
often providing unique solutions. We are
pleased with the foundations we are laying
and the initial signs of sustainable growth. 7
Ian Taylor, MP - Executive Chairman
Ian Taylor is MP for Esher and Walton. He was Minister for
Science & Technology at the Department of Trade and Industry
in the previous administration between 1994 and 1997, where
he was responsible for such areas as Science Research
Councils, Telecommunications, Innovation and Technology
Transfer and Digital Broadcasting. He is an executive director
of Interregnum plc, an investment and advisory company
specialising in the technology sector and is a non-executive
director of NextFifteen Communications Group plc and
Chairman of Radioscape Limited. He spent 18 years working in
investment and corporate finance, located in both London and
Paris prior to becoming an MP in 1987.
Adrian Merryman - Chief Executive Officer
Adrian Merryman joined from Interregnum plc, an investment
and advisory company, where he was Chief Investment Officer.
He was previously Chief Executive of Temenos Systems, the
Geneva based banking software company. He has served as an
investment banker at CIBC Oppenheimer and Merrill Lynch,
and holds an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Geoff Carswell - Executive Director 
Geoff Carswell - Chief Executive of Joyce-Loebl Limited and
Executive Main Board Director. Dr Carswell, aged 57, has been
Chief Executive of Joyce-Loebl Limited since April 1999. He
has had almost 23 years involvement in the Refractories
industry, in Technical, Strategic Planning, Marketing and Sales
roles and latterly as Managing Director of Steetley plc's  66m
turnover Magnesia and Refractories Division. Dr Carswell has
extensive experience of turning around and growing
businesses operating in mature markets. Prior to joining
Joyce-Loebl, Dr Carswell served as Managing Director of
Rexam plc's Dispenser Division, a manufacturer of aerosol
valves, and Chief Executive of Ridley Quiney Ltd, a
merchanting business supplying packaging materials to the
wholesale trade. He has a B. Tech (Hons) degree in Materials
Science and Technology and a Ph.D. in Magnetic Materials.
Tim Sulivan - Director 
Tim Sulivan's successful military career included many different
domestic and international responsibilities, culminating in a
number of key appointments at the Ministry of Defence,
including being Chief Executive of the regional infrastructure
organisation that introduced a  900m PFI project. He was also
at one time responsible for leading the development of the
Army's Strategy for the 21st Century.
In the commercial sector,Tim Sulivan holds a number of
executive positions, including developing business strategy 
at BCD Modelling Ltd, a start-up computer modelling company
and working for the RICS. As Vice President for Customer
Relations with General Dynamics (UK) Ltd, he is responsible 
for the company's customer relations with the Ministry of
Defence on the  1.7 billion Bowman battlefield
communications project.
Tim Wightman - Director 
Tim Wightman has had extensive business experience in the
UK, Germany and North America. He was previously Chief
Executive of Rubicon Group plc, a leading supplier of outsourced
manufacturing services to the electronic industry, which was
quoted on the London Stock Exchange up to 1998 when it
was acquired by Applied Power Inc. He then served on APW's
Executive Board with responsibility for the world-wide
development of that company's services to global customers.
He is currently a non-executive Chairman of Digica Group
Holdings Limited an IT outsourcing company backed by
private equity company Bridgepoint Capital.
Andrew Lane - Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Lane qualified as a Chartered Accountant with
MacIntyre Hudson, and then spent a further two years 
with Arthur Andersen in their Cambridge office. Since 
leaving practice he has served in financial management 
roles at Psion and Unipart. He holds a degree in Economics
from Cambridge University.
Management Backgrounds