 16  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 3
their values but it is much more demanding  
to ingrain these in the culture of the 
organisation, especially one employing some 
70,000 people around the world, such that 
one sees them being lived each day in the 
decisions that management make, the service 
provided to customers, and the manner in 
which the business deals with its people.
Shortly after taking the chair, I attended 
our 2009 Pulse Awards that recognised 
individuals and teams who have excelled 
during the preceding year in living our 
Governing Principles, focused on 
achievements in innovation, commitment, 
impact and leadership. Those who won 
awards were impressive testament to the 
many at Serco for whom their job is much 
more than just turning up for work each 
morning. Examples were our staff at 
Lowdham Grange prison, whose projects 
helped forge new bonds between offenders 
and their children and thereby reduce the 
probability of re-offending, and those at our 
Family Services business unit in North 
America, who gave up weekends and 
holidays to build a Licensed Clinical Social 
Worker practice to help members  
of the US armed forces cope with issues 
such as post-traumatic stress disorder. 
Complementing this ethos of public service,  
I have also found an equally strong 
entrepreneurial drive to deliver against 
objectives, create value and develop 
innovative solutions to problems. Serco has  
a  can do' mentality but one built on the 
foundations of a strong management system 
that ensures rigorous analysis of potential 
opportunities and their inherent risks, 
meticulous implementation of the transition 
and transformation stages of new contracts, 
and effective governance of ongoing 
activities. In 2010 we implemented the 
Barclays Cycle Hire scheme for Transport for 
London; in just 11 months from being granted 
the contract to the launch on 30 July,  
we had 5,000 specially-designed bicycles  
in place across 315 sites, together with the 
supporting infrastructure and membership 
and billing systems. 
Serco's breadth is, in my view, one of our 
great strengths. We now have signi cant 
interests outside the UK - our Americas 
business turned over  0.95bn in 2010, whilst 
in Australia we are a major employer. This 
geographic reach allows us to bene t from 
the strong economic growth being 
experienced in Australia, the Middle East  
In my rst statement since 
being appointed Chairman  
in May 2010, I thought I might 
give some initial impressions  
of our business. 
Since joining, I have sought to gain as broad 
as possible an exposure to and understanding 
of the diverse activities that now comprise 
Serco. Travelling around the United States, 
the Middle East, India and Australia, as well 
as extensively within the UK, I have visited 
over 30 of our sites across very different 
business streams such as defence, offender 
management, education, transport and 
health. Before being approached to join the 
Board of Serco, I obviously knew the name 
but had only limited awareness of the range 
of activities undertaken by the Group, from 
setting Greenwich Mean Time at the National 
Physical Laboratory to providing air traf c 
control services at Dubai International Airport. 
Despite this diversity, what I have found are 
very strong unifying competencies and values 
that set the company apart. Having served for 
many years as a non-executive director of 
government departments, I recognise clearly 
the public service ethos - a deep-seated 
desire to make a difference - within the Serco 
staff I have met in prisons, schools and 
hospitals to name a few. Many businesses 
talk about guiding principles and publish  
Chairman's Statement
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   16 14/03/2011   14:19  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  17
backdrop I am pleased to be able to propose 
a nal dividend for 2010 of 5.15p per share, 
an increase of 17.0% on last year's nal, 
which would bring our total dividend  
for 2010 to 7.35p per share, 17.6% up  
on 2009. Over the past ve years, Serco  
has delivered a total shareholder return 
consistently ahead of the average for  
the FTSE 100. 
Not only has the last year seen the retirement 
of Kevin Beeston, my predecessor as 
Chairman, but 2010 also marked the 
retirement of both Margaret Ford, our Senior 
Independent Director since 2003, and Tom 
Corcoran, who had been a Non-Executive 
Director for the last three years, bringing 
speci c US insight to the Board. We owe 
much to all three for their contribution to the 
successful progress of Serco during their 
time on the Board, and in particular to Kevin 
who started with the company in 1985 and 
was progressively Finance Director, Chief 
Executive and Executive Chairman, prior  
to his assuming the role of Non-Executive 
Chairman in 2007. May I take this opportunity 
to extend them our best wishes for the future. 
At the same time I would like to welcome  
Paul Brooks to our Board. In such a multi-
faceted business, I believe it is important  
to plan ahead for succession to key roles, 
bringing individuals on to the Board early  
to allow them to learn the business ahead  
of assuming particular functions. David 
Richardson has chaired our Audit Committee 
since 2003 and will, therefore, come to the 
end of his allotted nine years in 2012. I am 
therefore delighted that Paul has agreed  
to join us and assume the role of audit chair 
following David's retirement. Paul is very well 
quali ed for this, having been Group Chief 
Financial Of cer of Experian, the FTSE 50 
global information services company, since 
2001. We will shortly return the Board  
to its previous size once we complete the 
current recruitment process. 
As an employer of some 70,000 people 
across the world, Serco is deeply conscious 
of its responsibilities to the communities in 
which employees live and work, and we seek 
to support them in their involvement in 
activities to help those less fortunate than 
they. In this context I would like to say how 
delighted we all were to see the recent award 
of a CBE to Chris Hyman for both his 
charitable work and his business 
achievements. A summary of our approach  
to corporate responsibility, and some 
examples of the contributions that we 
make, can be found in our Corporate 
Responsibility Review on our website.  
We are also very aware of the impact  
of what we do on our environment and 
considerations as to how best to lessen 
this impact are an integral part of the 
planning of each of our activities. 
Serco is a learning organisation, seeking 
to improve what it does by listening to 
feedback from its stakeholders and its 
people. If we make mistakes, we put them 
right and learn from them. The Board is  
no exception and each year we undertake 
an evaluation of what the Board does  
and how it does it, this evaluation being 
facilitated externally every third year.  
As Chairman, I will also undertake an 
annual development review with each 
Director and my own performance will  
be appraised by my Board colleagues  
led by David Richardson, who takes over 
the role of Senior Independent Director.
May I nish by thanking everyone who has 
contributed to making Serco the business 
it is today: I am very proud to have been 
invited to become its Chairman. 
Alastair Lyons CBE 
Chairman
and India, to offset the more challenging 
environment of the UK and, to a lesser 
degree, the US. Equally our breadth of 
activities allows us to take advantage of 
developing thinking in different countries 
towards delivering services to the public, 
outsourcing and contracting. When 
proposing for new opportunities, we can 
reference existing successes elsewhere,  
a good example being the contribution our 
hospital services activities in the UK made  
to our selection as preferred bidder for the 
substantial Fiona Stanley hospital contract  
in Perth, Western Australia - our rst major 
health activity in Australia. We recognise,  
in the way in which we have designed our 
management structure, the value that can  
be created by people across different parts  
of our business working together to share 
experience, skills and ideas. When visiting 
our immigration and offender management 
sites in Australia, I met employees with 
experience in our UK prisons and detention 
centres, some on secondment, others who 
had decided to take their careers forward in 
that region. Such inter-operability played a 
signi cant role in Serco being awarded a 
NZ 300m prison management contract in 
New Zealand.
Whilst the nancial crisis has imposed 
short-term constraints on Government 
spending in the UK, I am con dent in  
our substantial pipeline of identi ed bid 
opportunities across the world and strong 
order book, hence maintaining our forward 
guidance. We have sought to be innovative in 
our thinking as to how to derive better service 
outcomes. An example is our approach to  
the welfare to work market in the UK, in which 
we partner with small companies and 
charities with vital local knowledge and 
expertise, to deliver tailored solutions to the 
needs of individual bene t recipients in order 
to get them back into work quickly and 
remain off bene t. The underlying need to 
deliver frontline public services more 
ef ciently and economically will, I believe, 
create signi cant new opportunities for 
our business.
Our achievements in 2010, as discussed in 
detail by Chris Hyman in his Chief Executive's 
Statement, are ones of which Chris and his 
executive team, our wider management and 
employees can be justi ably proud. Growing 
our business by 9.0% and our pro t before 
tax by 20.8% during this period demonstrates  
the resilience of our business model and  
the capability of our people. Against this 
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   17 14/03/2011   14:20