 JOINT STATEMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Introduction
This year has been one of sustained progress, marking the successful turnaround of ServicePower. The Company's strengthened
financial position and move into profitability means it now has a solid footing from which to capitalise on its growing market
opportunities. Through this improved financial performance we have established the value of our technology and the strong
pipeline of opportunities we now see highlights this.
Market conditions for our business are positive. We provide a solution that enables services businesses to improve efficiencies
and reduce resources, delivering a tangible return on investment. We have shortened the sales cycle for our services through
competitive pricing at a sustainable level, achievable through the more efficient manner in which our business is now managed.
Our ability to offer both traditional licencing models and Software as a Service (SaaS) models has been well received by our
customers and we believe continues to be the way in which to successfully address our market.
There is a growing momentum in our market, as our potential customers become more aware of the value of an outsourced
service operation. We continue to invest in research and development to enhance the functionality of our product range and
capture these wider opportunities.
We have achieved a greater level of clarity in the marketing of the ServicePower offering which is resulting in a growing pipeline.
In addition, we believe our breadth of offering, being able to not only manage scheduling but also the despatching of work,
warranty claims management and installation, is a unique aspect of our business which has proved beneficial in our new business
initiatives and may be even more so in the year ahead.
In the coming year we will seek to increase the product development roadmap and marketing of the ServicePower brand into
new verticals, while maintaining our focus on the US and UK.
Financial Review
The Company has two segments, ServiceOperations and ServiceScheduling.
Total revenue for the year increased to  18,255,000 (2009:  18,108,000). ServiceOperations revenue increased by 11 per cent.
to  11,480,000 (2009:  10,310,000) whilst ServiceScheduling licence and consultancy revenue decreased by 13 per cent. to
 6,775,000 (2009:  7,793,000).
A breakdown of revenue from the ServiceOperations segment is as follows:
2010 2009
 '000  '000
Hosting/SaaS 1,862 2,943
Operations US 2,991 2,864
Operations UK 6,627 4,503
Total 11,480 10,310
2 A breakdown of revenue from the ServiceScheduling segment is as follows:
2010 2009
 '000  '000
Licences 1,544 2,405
Implementation / Support 4,786 4,746
Mobility 445 642
Total 6,775 7,793
The Company continued to invest in enhancement of functionalities across all of its product range, investing  448,000 in 2010
(2009:  556,000).
Gross profit for the year decreased by 19 per cent. to  5,102,000 (2009:  6,295,000) with the gross margin percentage
decreasing from 35 per cent. to 28 per cent. due to change in product mix in revenue in the year.
The total profit before taxation was  577,000 from a loss of  4,017,000 in 2009. This includes the following;
2010 2009
 '000  '000
Release/(charging) of restructuring provisions 256 (900)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) 310 (1,196)
Impairment on intangible assets   (822)
Total one-time costs and foreign exchange gain/(loss) 566 (2,918)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before taxation, one-off costs and foreign exchange gain/(loss) 11 (1,099)
Basic earnings per share for the year was 0.30p (2009: loss per share of 2.2p).
Cash balances increased to  3,665,000 at 31 December 2010 from  3,543,000 at 31 December 2009. The directors cannot
recommend the payment of a dividend at this time. Further information on the going concern basis of preparation is included in
note 2.
Partnerships
We continue to seek partnership opportunities with global businesses, integrating with their technology offerings in order to
broaden our market reach both in terms of geographies and industry verticals. A particularly significant new partnership was
signed with Syclo in the year, a provider of mobile computing solutions for the field service and mobile professional sectors to
whom we have outsourced our mobile offering. This partnership gives us entry into new verticals in which Syclo has a
particularly strong presence such as telecoms and utilities. Having replaced the incumbent provider, the commitment from both
parties towards the success of the partnership has been evidenced through the winning of the first joint contract in May.
Customers
We were pleased to sign contracts with several of our existing customers in the year to provide additional services and product
capabilities. These included the deployment of ServiceStats, our new business intelligence product at Farmers Insurers, providing
them with an in-depth view of workforce activity against claims; the extension of ServiceScheduling licences with ADT Fire and
Security following their recent acquisition in the US, and the implementation of a SaaS version of our ServiceScheduling software
with Pitney Bowes in North America and Europe.
3 We have enjoyed a good rate of new customer wins. These included a ServiceScheduling licence win with one of the world's
largest claims management and loss adjusting organisations; a ServiceScheduling SaaS win with Keyword Advisors; and a
ServiceOperations licence with one of the world's leader TV manufacturers, where ServicePower replaced the incumbent
provider.
We were also delighted to begin work on a trial service proposition for one of the UK's leading supermarkets during the year.
This trial was carried out successfully in a small region of the UK and has subsequently been rolled out into additional regions as
announced in February 2011. This is a multiple home trades proposition and has the potential to be of significant scale if fully
launched later in the year.
Post year end, we signed a significant multi-year licence and revenue share contract for our ServiceOperations software with
Assurant Solutions, one of the world's leading speciality insurance providers. Having used our software via SaaS for over five
years, Assurant Solutions has now expanded its use of ServiceOperations into claims and dispatch. Importantly, Assurant
Solutions will also provide access to the ServiceOperations software to its commercial customer base, which includes some of
the world's leading retailers and manufacturers. Assurant Solutions plans to develop the software platform in new directions
designed to significantly improve the retail and customer experience in the extended service contract and home
services industries.
This contract has the potential to be a transformational development for ServicePower, providing direct access to Assurant's
global customer base. Implementation of the service has begun and we look forward to updating shareholders on the uptake by
Assurant Solutions' customers in due course.
Market developments
With the provision of In Home Services estimated to be worth $700 billion globally and installation worth $200 billion, we are
operating in what is clearly a valuable market. In the current economic climate, retailers in particular are seeing slow growth in
store revenues and are seeking new means of revenue generation. There is a growing recognition of the value of service
offerings, such as installation and warranty, alongside traditional product ranges.
Our focus will continue to be on the North American and UK services markets, where we have flagship customers and proof of
successful installations.
Products
We continued to invest in enhancements to our core ServiceScheduling and ServiceOperations products in 2010, including the
launch of ServiceScheduling on SaaS and the introduction of ServiceStats, a new business intelligence product, to Scheduling
customers.
The new ServiceMobility platform based on Sybase iAnywhere was expanded to support the RIM Blackberry OS and will next
year be expanded to support the Apple iOs and Android.
In the year ahead, progress will continue. A major new ServiceScheduling release will add support for new platforms and
operating systems, and will enable management of staff capacity at a more granular level and improve handling of non-working
time, such as breaks. Further server to server integration between Service GPS will be developed and the ServicePower
Workforce Analysis Tool (SWAT) product will also be expanded to integrate with forecasting. Further integration between
Service Scheduling and ServiceOperations will be enhanced with a common front end.
4 Growth Strategy
Looking to the year ahead, our focus will continue to be on our key North American and UK markets. With the securing of
recent landmark contracts we are in a position to gradually increase our headcount in the areas of product development, project
management and consultancy in both geographies. We will seek to expand out of our core verticals of consumer electronics and
appliances into telecoms and utilities, both directly and via our partners, and expect to see particularly exciting developments in
the retail market.
Our trial contract with one of the UK's leading supermarkets has also enabled us to expand from the provision of networks of
brown and white goods repairers into other trades, such as plumbing, home decorating and pest control. We are in a great
position to leverage this new network for other customers.
Outlook
This has been an encouraging year for ServicePower, testament to the success of the re-engineering of the business begun in
2009. ServicePower continues to be a well-managed organisation and our market leading technology enables us to provide
valuable services to some of the world's leading businesses.
As the market for outsourced service operations continues to grow, so does our market opportunity. We have entered the
current financial year with a strong pipeline of new business, both in the UK and US. We will remain focused in the year ahead
on our areas of strength and look forward to the capitalising on these opportunities.
Lindsay Bury, Chairman Mark Duffin, CEO
24 March 2011
5