 Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
Interest Rate Risk
The interest income on the Group's cash balances is placed on fixed term deposits between
one and three months to maximise the return on the investment, until the funds are
required to fund the business.
Credit Risk
The Group has a policy of appropriate credit checking for new customers.
Currency Risk
The Group undertakes transactions with overseas customers and suppliers mainly in US
Dollars and Euros. Wherever possible, the Group seeks to offset transactional currency risk
by sales and purchases being denominated in the same currency, and where this is not
possible and might have a material impact on the accounts, the Group would seek to
mitigate these risks by fixing the exchange rates on the transaction.
Research and Development
The investment in the development of Intellectual Property in both piezo technology and
Active Latch based products is core to the strategy and long term growth of the business.
During the period the Group successfully led a consortium, which included Southampton
University and National Physical Laboratory, to win a  1.2m project over three years,
50% funded by the DTI for research into piezo actuators in extreme environments.
Employee Information
The Group provides all employees with equal opportunities for advancement regardless
of their age, sex, race, creed or sexual orientation and encourages, where possible,
the recruitment, training and career development of disabled people and any employees who
may become disabled. It is also the Group's policy to encourage the spread of information
regarding developments affecting both the Group and an employee's workplace.
Political and Charitable Donations
The Company made no political or charitable donations during the period.
Supplier Payment Policy
It is the Group's policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the terms of business agreed with
them. The number of day's purchases outstanding for the Group at the end of December
2006 was 45 days.
Statement of Disclosure to Auditors
The directors confirm that:
- there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware; and
- each director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are
aware of that information.
Auditors
MRI Moores Rowland LLP were appointed auditors to the Company during the year and,
in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing that
they be re-appointed will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
13
Directors' Report
(continued)
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
Resolution 11 - Updating Articles of Association
It has been proposed that the Company amend the Articles of Association of the Company
(the Articles ) to reflect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act ).
These changes relate to communication between companies and shareholders using
electronic means, the disclosure of interests in shares and the 70 year age limit for directors.
Electronic Communication
The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with shareholders through their websites
and/or through the use of email provided that, in each case, the shareholder has agreed
that information may be supplied to him or her in such a way.
With regard to the consent to communication by website, the Company can send a notice
requesting an individual to consent to having documents or information sent to him or her
by means of a website, and if the Company does not receive a response to such a request
within 28 days of the request being sent, the individual shareholder is deemed to have
agreed to receive documents or information by such means.
Where information is provided in electronic form, shareholders can still require the Company
to send them the information or document in hard copy and such information or document
must then be provided within 21 days of the request.
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
The provisions of the Companies Act 1985 regarding the disclosure of interests in shares
were repealed in January 2007. New provisions under the 2006 Act have now been brought
into force and the Articles have been amended to refer to the corresponding sections of the
2006 Act.
70 Year Age Limit
The provisions relating to the 70 year age limit for directors under the Companies Act 1985
are to be repealed in April 2007. Accordingly, the Article which relates to this is no longer
required and is to be deleted.
This summarises the material differences between the current and the proposed Articles.
Changes of a minor, conforming or technical nature have not been mentioned specifically.
Copies of the Articles (showing the proposed changes) are available for inspection during
normal business hours at the registered office of the Company until the date of the AGM
or upon request from the Company Secretary. Copies will also be available at the AGM
meeting from 11 00 am until its conclusion.
Financial Risk Management
The Group's operations expose it to financial risks that include liquidity risk, interest rate,
credit risk and currency risk. The Group does not have any debt and is not therefore
required to use derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate costs nor is hedge
accounting applied.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility of
monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of the board. The Group's
finance department implements the policies set by the board of directors.
Liquidity Risk
The Group seeks to manage financial risk to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to
meet foreseeable needs. During the year the business has relied on cash raised from
the share placing.
12 The Report of the
Remuneration Committee
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
As an AIM quoted Company, Servocell Group PLC is not required to comply with Schedule
7A of the Companies Act, however the directors feel it is appropriate to provide the
following information to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is composed of the three non-executive directors and
is chaired by Michael Hartley. The non-executive directors have no personal financial interest
in the Company, except the holding of shares, no potential conflict of interest arising from
cross directorships and no day to day involvement in the running of the Group.
The role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the board on all aspects
of conditions of employment of the executive directors of the Group and on the terms
and conditions of employment of senior management. It determines the structure of
remuneration packages and sets the criteria for performance related components, including
the issue of share options. The Committee may, at its discretion, seek external advice at the
expense of the Company when setting remuneration levels. During the period no external
advice has been sought.
Remuneration Policy
The Group's remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate executives of the
highest calibre to ensure the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
Share ownership is encouraged and all of the executive directors and senior staff have an
interest in the share capital or share options over the share capital of the Company. In setting
remuneration levels the Committee takes into consideration remuneration within the Group
and the remuneration practices in other companies of a similar size in the markets and
locations in which the Group operates. Servocell is a dynamic, growing company which
operates in a specialised field and positions are benchmarked against comparable roles
in AIM companies. AIM is considered to be the most appropriate market against which
to benchmark executive pay given the business strategy of the Group.
The remuneration packages of the executives comprise the following:
Basic Salary
Basic salary is based on a number of factors including market rates together with the
individual director's experience, responsibilities and performance. Individual salaries
of directors are subject to review annually in October.
Benefits in Kind
The Group provides benefits in kind comprising a fully expensed company car or car
allowance, life assurance and private healthcare insurance.
Pensions
The Group makes payments into defined contribution Personal Pension Plans (the Plans )
on behalf of the executive directors. These payments are at a rate of 7% basic salary, with
the employee contributing 3%.
Performance Related Bonus
The Group operates an annual performance related bonus scheme for executive directors
and senior management. The bonus scheme is discretionary dependent entirely upon the
performance of the Group.
15
Directors' Report
(continued)
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or
loss of the Company for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the directors
are required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
- state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate
to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and
financial information included on the Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
On behalf of the Board
Steven Weaver
Company Secretary
23 March 2007
14