 4 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman's statement
I am pleased to report on a year of significant
restructuring for the Severn Trent group 
of companies which allows us to implement 
our focus on water business strategy.
I am pleased to report on a year of significant restructuring for the
Severn Trent group of companies which allows us to implement our
focus on water business strategy.
In June 2006 the board announced its intention to restructure Severn
Trent. Biffa Plc was successfully demerged on 9 October 2006, the sale
of Severn Trent Property was completed on 6 November 2006 and the
sale of US Laboratories was concluded at the end of December 2006.
In addition, group balance sheet efficiency has been improved by 
the payment on 20 October 2006 of a  575 million special dividend 
to shareholders.
As previously announced, the board intends to maintain group debt at
around the target 60% of regulated capital value, and to continue to
increase dividends by 3% above the rate of inflation at least up to 2010,
the remainder of the regulatory review period.
The current market capitalisation of the smaller and focused Severn
Trent at  3.5 billion is greater than it was at the end of 2004.
Shareholders have received a demerged Biffa worth  1.1 billion and
have received a special dividend of  575 million.
Severn Trent Water's customers' top priority is the safety and reliability
of their drinking water and we have a strong track record on this. 
We have consistently achieved 99.9% compliance with water quality
standards since 1997, which represents one of the best compliance
records in our industry.
Over and above these basic requirements, management is developing
detailed plans for fundamental improvements across all areas of 
the business as outlined in the review by our Group Chief Executive,
Colin Matthews.
Group results
Overall, Severn Trent has delivered a positive performance in 2006/07,
with group profit from continuing operations before tax, IAS 39 fair value
adjustments and exceptional items at  252 million and group profit from
continuing operations before tax was  325.5 million, an increase of 83.1%.
In line with our declared policy, the board is proposing a final dividend 
of 38.68 pence (31.97 pence) to be paid on 3 August 2007. This would
give a total dividend for the year, excluding the special dividend paid 
on 20 October 2006, of 61.45 pence per ordinary share, an increase 
of 20.2%.
Corporate responsibility
When I was invited to join the Severn Trent Plc board and became its
Chairman I did not know the full extent of the challenges which the
board and new incoming management team were to uncover and the
immense commitment of time and energy which has been needed to
manage these issues.
There is no point in dwelling unduly on the 2000 to 2004 era to apportion
blame or responsibility as this does not help customers or shareholders.
There is, however, every point in me stating here on behalf of the board
and management team that we have already accepted the responsibility
for making things right.
I believe that you will see from the considerable work outlined in this
annual report what we have achieved so far - and the considerable work
that we are determined still to do.
We are waiting to learn from Ofwat and the Serious Fraud Office the
conclusion of investigations into reporting irregularities made to Ofwat
by Severn Trent Water.
Sir John Egan
Chairman Severn Trent 5
Direction
We are continuing to co-operate fully to restore confidence in Severn
Trent Water going forward and we acknowledge that further amends may
be made to customers, depending on the outcome of the investigations.
In response to Ofwat's interim report of March 2006 concerning
allegations of false reporting made against Severn Trent Water in 2004,
we have already credited customer accounts and altered bills
appropriately for subsequent years.
We have taken and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate
to ensure the maintenance of both high ethical and professional
standards and resilient and effective controls throughout our companies.
Our new strategy on corporate responsibility (CR) is to support the new
management team's drive for excellence by achieving high standards on
a range of CR issues.
Those issues include: climate change; the local environment; engagement
with local communities; health and safety; business ethics, diversity and
investing in people. Further details of our CR strategy, values and action
plans are set out on the Severn Trent website (www.severntrent.com).
To be effective, a company's CR strategy must be fully integrated with its
core business planning. The strategic and organisational change that
took place within Severn Trent in 2006/07 has reinforced this. 
As described later in this Annual Report, Severn Trent Water has
determined 20 critical success factors and adopted 20 KPIs, by which it
will measure performance and set targets. Many of these indicators link
directly to Severn Trent Water's CR strategy - for example, the KPIs on
health and safety, leakage, net energy use, pollution incidents and
employee motivation. This ensures that CR is entrenched at the very
core of Severn Trent's activities. 
In addition, Severn Trent's Corporate Responsibility Committee, a board
committee, has introduced a more structured approach to reviewing 
all areas of our CR performance. 
Take climate change for example. This has risen up the political and
public agenda in 2006/07. We welcome this. Severn Trent Water has
been engaged in planning for the changing climate for a number of
years. We have built a leading reputation in this area with key
stakeholders such as the Carbon Trust.
Severn Trent Water's work on climate change focuses on two main
aspects: mitigating our impact on climate change, and adapting to it. In
turn, mitigation has two main aspects: energy efficiency initiatives and
in-house renewable energy production, primarily biogas combined heat
and power (CHP). The effects of our work in both these areas are
reflected in our KPI on net energy use.
Board, management and staff
The board of Severn Trent Plc continually reviews its management plans
to ensure orderly succession and continuity of leadership.
After a year of great strategic change, Chief Executive Colin Matthews is
reshaping the group to focus on water aided by Tony Wray, Managing
Director of Severn Trent Water, who is concentrating on improving
Severn Trent Water day to day operations. As the priority switches more
and more to implementing the improvement plans announced by Mr
Matthews, the two roles will combine.
The board therefore wishes to provide clarity and confidence to
customers, employees and shareholders that there will be a smooth
leadership transition in due course from Mr Matthews to Mr Wray
particularly now that detailed preparations are underway to achieve an
appropriate regulatory settlement for 2010 to 2015.
It is expected that the consideration of the two roles into one leading to
the appointment of Mr Wray as Chief Executive and the retirement of Mr
Matthews from the board and the company will take place around the
end of 2007.
Martin Bettington, Managing Director of Biffa Plc, stood down from
Severn Trent Plc when Biffa was demerged in October. I thank him for
his tremendous contribution to Severn Trent in helping to grow Biffa to
the point where it is now an independent FTSE 250 company valued at
more than  1 billion.
Marisa Cassoni stood down from the board in October after 5 years as a
non-executive director. I thank her for her contribution, particularly her
membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta stood down from the board in December 2006
on completion of the sale of the US Laboratories, our US analytical
environmental testing firm, to TestAmerica Holdings. As President and
CEO of Severn Trent Laboratories, she made a significant contribution to
Severn Trent during her 11 years with the company and the last two
years on the board during a period of significant change.
As part of our strategy of focusing on water, all the current executive
and non-executive directors of Severn Trent Plc now hold similar
positions on the board of Severn Trent Water Limited. Since March
2007 the boards of directors of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent 
Water Limited have been identical.
We have carried out rigorous board effectiveness reviews with the help
of independent consultants, which have generated a number of actions
to secure improvements to board performance.
I would also like to pay a special tribute to our committed staff whose
performance in a year of exceptional challenge and change has been
outstanding, ensuring we continue to achieve our business goals.
Investment proposition
Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment programme
drives strong growth prospects. The management team has a clear and
focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher
standards as the means to achieve both higher levels of customer
satisfaction and sustained strong financial returns to shareholders.
Outlook
The outlook for the coming year is one of significant improvement, with
our plans indicating that we will meet the Ofwat determination for
operating costs in 2007/08. This improvement is driven by the fall in
energy prices (with prices now fixed for 2007/08, our total energy costs
will be around  17 million lower than 2006/07), and the delivery of
efficiency savings of  5 million through the implementation of our
improvement plans.
Our plans encompass the medium and longer term, in some cases
extending beyond the end of the current AMP4 period. Delivering
sustained improvement will result in cost efficiencies being realised, 
but will necessitate investment to succeed.
With the exception of any unforeseen variation in commodity prices
(principally energy), we expect that the achievement of our plans 
will enable us to deliver around  30 million of cost efficiencies over 
the last two years of the AMP4 period, which represents around 3%
annual outperformance against the Ofwat determination for operating
costs, without affecting our ability to deliver the 6% efficiency on the
capital programme.