 In the face of intensified pressures we 
delivered a good performance in 201 1  
and took difficult decisions to ensure  
the future success of AstraZeneca.
Louis Schweitzer Chairman
6 Chairman's Statement AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Distributions to shareholders $m 2011 2010 2009
Dividends 3,764 3,361 2,977
Share repurchases 6,015
1
2,604
2
-
Total 9,779 5,965 2,977
Dividend for 2011 $ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.85 51.9 5.33 12 September 2011
Second interim dividend 1.95 123.6 13.21 19 March 2012
Total 2.80 175.5 18.54
1
  Share repurchases in 2011, net of proceeds from the issue of share capital equal to 
$409 million, were $5,606 million. 
2
  Share repurchases in 2010, net of proceeds from the issue of share capital equal to 
$494 million, were $2,110 million. 
Dear Shareholder
I write to you at the end of a year in which research- 
based pharmaceutical companies faced a tough 
marketplace and operating environment. Against this 
challenging background, disciplined execution of our 
strategy delivered a good performance. Our strong cash 
flow supported a significant increase in cash distributions 
to shareholders and continued investment to drive future 
growth and value. These conditions also provided the 
backdrop to the annual review by your Board of our 
business strategy - which remains to be a focused, 
integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescription- 
based biopharmaceutical business. I would like to take this opportunity to review AstraZeneca's financial 
performance in 2011 and the decisions we took to ensure we continue 
to deliver sustainable value for you.
Financial performance
Group sales in 2011 were down 2% at CER to $33,591 million  
(2010: $33,269 million) and reported operating profit was up 10%  
at $12,795 million (2010: $11,494 million), which included the gain  
on the sale of Astra Tech. Performance for the year reflected strong 
double digit sales growth for Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort.
It was also impacted by government pricing interventions and generic 
competition, which combined to reduce revenue by some $3 billion. 
Revenue in the US was down 2%, as was revenue in markets outside 
the US: revenue was down 11% in Western Europe, up 4% in 
Established ROW and up 10% in Emerging Markets. 
Reported earnings per share for the full year were up 29% at  
$7.33 (2010: $5.60), which also included the non-taxable gain  
of $1.08 from the Astra Tech sale. Our effective tax rate also  
benefited from an adjustment in respect of prior periods following  
the announcement in March 2011 that HM Revenue & Customs in the 
UK and the US Internal Revenue Service had agreed the terms of an 
Advance Pricing Agreement regarding transfer pricing arrangements 
for AstraZeneca's US business.
A challenging marketplace
The world pharmaceutical market grew by 4.5% in 2011 and the 
fundamentals of the industry remain strong. First, the world population 
continues to increase and age: it passed the seven billion mark in 
2011, while the number of people over 65 in 2030 is estimated to be 
almost one billion, double the 2005 figure. Secondly, we are seeing 
the emergence of expanding numbers of patients in new markets  
who can access our medicines for the first time. Thirdly, there remains 
considerable unmet medical need. Chronic diseases are on the 
increase, not only in wealthy countries but also in middle income and, 
increasingly, lower income countries. For example, some 346 million 
people around the world have diabetes while 24 million are affected  
by Alzheimer's Disease. Finally, advances in science and technology 
promise the continued delivery of new medicines that can make a real 
difference to patient health.
Yet, while the fundamentals remain strong, the challenges facing the 
industry have been unprecedented in recent years. Patents on some 
of the world's most successful innovative medicines are starting to 
expire and we face increasing competition from generic alternatives. 
Additionally, the need to improve R&D productivity and the number of 
product launches remains a critical challenge for the whole sector. 
Around the world, rising healthcare costs, coupled with the difficult 
economic climate and continued austerity measures being 
implemented by governments, have resulted in pressure on prices. 
This includes pricing interventions in many countries. The regulatory 
landscape is changing, becoming more global and more complex.  
It is no longer enough for new medicines to be safe and effective. 
Health authorities increasingly require additional information regarding 
a medicine's comparative clinical and cost effectiveness.
Our strategic response
It was with these challenges in mind that your Board undertook its 
strategy review process in 2011. We are confident that long-term 
growth in demand for innovative biopharmaceuticals will remain 
strong. We believe there continue to be opportunities to create  
value for those who invest in pharmaceutical innovation, and that 
AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities to take advantage of these 
opportunities and turn them into long-term value through the research, 
development and marketing of our medicines. We also recognise that 
the industry is going through a period of fundamental change as it 
seeks to overcome the serious challenges we face. 
For us, that means a continued focus on ensuring we drive:
> world class productivity in R&D
> increased external collaboration
> a global orientation, reflecting the growth in Emerging Markets
> stronger customer orientation, particularly towards payers
> operational efficiency with a flexible cost base.
Our 2011 review highlighted the ongoing need for a substantial 
improvement in R&D productivity if we are to sustain acceptable 
returns to shareholders. We are therefore planning to accelerate our 
R&D strategy. We intend to take a new approach to Neuroscience, 
closing our existing research centres and creating a new virtual 
innovative medicines unit for our R&D in this challenging field.  
We also plan to reshape our other R&D global functions to better 
support a more focused portfolio and create a simpler organisation 
with greater flexibility in all functional areas. 
In his Chief Executive Officer's Review on the following pages, David 
Brennan outlines the steps we took in 2011 to secure our future 
business success. David also emphasises that how we do business 
is as important as what we do. We need to continue to work with 
integrity and to high ethical standards if we are to deliver on our 
promise of bringing benefits to patients, creating sustainable value  
for shareholders and contributing to economic and social welfare.  
In this regard, the Board has an important role to play in setting high 
standards and monitoring performance.
Outlook
We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range  
of $28-34 billion a year over the 2010-14 period, as revenue growth 
from key franchises that retain exclusivity and continued growth in 
Emerging Markets are pressured by the loss of market exclusivity on 
a number of products. However, based on the evolution of the base 
case assumptions since 2010, such as the downward pressure on 
revenue from government interventions, revenue for the remainder 
of the period is likely to be in the lower half of the range.
Returns to shareholders
In recognition of the Group's strong balance sheet and sustainable 
significant cash flow, and the Board's confidence in the strategic 
direction and long-term prospects for the business, we announced, 
in conjunction with the full year 2009 results, the adoption of a 
progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the  
dividend each year. After providing for business investment, funding 
the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service 
obligations, the Board will also keep under review the opportunity  
to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders 
through periodic share repurchases.
The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.95,  
a 5% increase over the second interim dividend awarded in 2010.  
This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.80 (175.5 pence, SEK 
18.54), an increase of 10% from 2010. In 2011, cash distributions to 
shareholders through dividends totalled $3,764 million and net share 
repurchases totalled $5,606 million.
Appreciation
In the face of intensified pressures we delivered a good performance 
in 2011 and took difficult decisions to ensure the future success  
of AstraZeneca. None of this would have been possible without  
the leadership of David Brennan and the other members of his 
executive team. My thanks, and those of the whole Board, go to 
them and all our employees for their effort in working to deliver on 
our promise.
 
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman
Chairman's Statement
Overview
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Chairman's Statement 7