 It really is pleasing to report the financial outcome for the
year ended 30 June 2003 where:
  turnover achieved was  13.0 million - a 30% increase
from the previous year
  operating profits before player amortisation and costs of
terminating player contracts of  0.5 million were earned,
as against a loss of  0.9 million in 2002
The results are all the more remarkable recognising that the
Nationwide League central distribution for TV income was
some  2.4 million less than in 2002, arising principally due
to a loss of revenue from ITV Digital. Were it not for the
collapse of ITV Digital in March last year, profits of real
substance would have been earned. Compared to many
other football organisations, Sheffield United has coped well
with the financial downturn of the industry.
FOOTBALL
What a fantastic season for the Blades!
I am sure all shareholders and supporters will remember
2002/03 with pride as the Club achieved so much, even
though there was ultimately disappointment at Cardiff on 
26 May. Sheffield United is a proud club once again, now
so much more admired by other football organisations than
has been the case for a considerable period of time. In a
season when 34 league and cup matches were staged at
Bramall Lane, it is testimony to the quality of football
played that we recorded our highest average crowds since
1993/94, when the Blades were last in the Premier League.
An average of 18,575 supporters attended league matches
despite the extra costs associated with so many cup games.
It is heartening to record that the average attendance for the
new campaign is currently 22,810 supporters including an
increase in season ticket sales of 20% to 12,170 holders.
The Club has introduced a more creative pricing policy to
encourage fans back to our Stadium in order to make every
effort to expand the support base.
The skills and expertise applied by our football management
team - ably led by Neil Warnock - deserves rich applause.
The consistent efforts of the first team squad - a good few
of whom came through the Academy ranks - playing in
total 61 games in the season, gave all our fans an epic
period of success and so many memorable afternoons and
evenings either at Bramall Lane or at our opponents' stadia.
Sheffield United has really worked hard to modernise and
transform itself during the last few years. We remain
committed to continue this process both on and off the field
of play.
Neil and his team have made a most promising start to the
present 2003/04 season and, whilst it would be foolhardy to
become too optimistic, all of us - supporters and
shareholders alike - must be hoping the Blades have that
wee bit of luck needed to take us back to the Premier
League. The first team squad is strong - albeit presently
reduced in number through injuries to certain senior players
- and determined to make every effort to go one better this
time around.
THE ACADEMY
During the year all construction work at the Academy was
completed seeing Sheffield United with state-of-the-art
facilities which compare favourably with the best available
throughout the whole of the country.
We are justifiably proud that, at a time when Nationwide
League clubs have suffered the vagaries of substantial
reductions in broadcasting revenue, alongside excessive
annual player wage costs, the Blades have still been able to
forge ahead. All talented youngsters recruited at the
Academy have the best possible chance of being educated
and coached to become top class footballers, eventually
making their way to the senior squad.
Phil Jagielka, Michael Tonge, Nick Montgomery and Colin
Cryan - recent members of the Academy - are now regular
first team players and all internationals at Under-21 level for
either England, Scotland or Ireland.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 2
I have pleasure in presenting the group's best results for some years, alongside of course, Sheffield United FC
having one of the most enjoyable and successful seasons since it became a professional football club in 1889.
Sheffield United plc Sheffield United plc
The consistent efforts of the first team squad - a good
few of whom came through the Academy ranks -
playing in total 61 games in the season, gave all our
fans an epic period of success and so many memorable
afternoons and evenings either at Bramall Lane or at
our opponents' stadia. Rest assured under the watchful eye of John Warnock and
his excellent management and coaching team at the
Shirecliffe Road headquarters, other youngsters are
blossoming to move up the ranks. Indeed there are
currently six Academy scholars who have played at
international level for their countries.
An ideal benchmark of progress is that seven of the Under-
18s team - who lost on penalties in the fifth round of the
FA Youth Cup against the eventual winners, Manchester
United - are eligible to play in the same category this year.
Our Under-17s youngsters were unfortunate to lose in the
play-offs for the League to the eventual winners Leeds
United.
The performance of the Academy's Under-19s team was
adversely affected but only as a result of so many of the
eligible players making their way into the reserve team
squad which, incidentally, won the Premier Division of the
Avon League.
The Academy facilities are in part being utilised for
commercial purposes to ensure that there is a useful flow of
income available to reduce and repay bank borrowings
during the coming years. This sees the indoor and outdoor
floodlit synthetic surfaces and the adaptation of the vacant
third floor within the main premises, being rented out to
third parties and generating good revenue.
COMMERCIAL
In a record year for our retail division, over 13,500 Sheffield
United home shirts were sold during the season. One only
has to look around our stadium on match days to see red
and white stripes in abundance. The new white away strip,
launched in summer 2003, has already proved to be a big
success and is popular dress wear for our loyal fans. The
design process for the next strip is already underway.
Advertising and sponsorship improved dramatically within
the period under review and we are now in discussion with
Desun to possibly extend the marketing arrangements
beyond the present expiry date of May 2004.
Occupancy of executive boxes and utilisation of the
Platinum Suite have also increased, although there is still
some work to do in order to generate further revenue from
the excellent dining and social facilities we have within the
John Street Stand.
The Club has over 10,000 subscribers in the Blades
Superdraw lottery and is planning to extend membership in
the near future. The efforts applied by our personnel have
made the lottery one of the most successful in football.
The catering division had a small uplift in revenue during
the year, but it is recognised that there is potential for better
growth which is being concentrated on presently.
ENTERPRISE CENTRE
Our highly acclaimed Blades Enterprise Centre has
prospered further during the fiscal period and should in the
current financial year, make a contribution of significance to
profits. Occupancy levels are around 95% reflecting the
excellent facilities and the top class service provided by our
dedicated in-house team.
In a similar manner to the Academy, our Enterprise Centre
is a clear demonstration of Sheffield United plc's desire to
 build a business' which does not solely rely upon on the
field success.
We continue to create income streams consistent with our
core activity of football.
PROPERTY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Every effort is being applied to move a stage further in the
development of an hotel within part of the car park
adjoining our stadium, where - subject to formal building
consents and finance being in place - enabling works may
well commence at the end of the present season.
Our amended proposals encompass an hotel of around 120
bedrooms, and a lower ground floor area to be utilised for
other leisure uses. We have negotiations ongoing with two
prospective national hotel operators.
Once this further phase of the Blades Leisure Park is
underway, the Club will coincidentally infill the corner
between Bramall Lane and the South Stand to improve
facilities and in particular those for our disabled supporters.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 4
Sheffield United plc Under the watchful eye of John Warnock and his
excellent management and coaching team at the
Shirecliffe Road headquarters, other youngsters are
blossoming to move up the ranks.
Sheffield United plc FINANCING
The company's Open Offer of shares was approved by
members on 30 May 2003 and a total of  4 million - prior
to costs - was raised through the issue of new stock. 
Some  3.5 million of this capital was applied to reduce
overall debt of Sheffield United plc with the residue
providing ongoing working capital.
Around 80% of the Open Offer stock was taken up by
members reflecting their desire to see the Blades continue
its progress in  building a business'.
It is encouraging that via the new capital raised, borrowings
have been reduced and importantly no one individual
controls the Company. Undoubtedly the directors and
executives are better placed to implement strategy as a
result of the successful Open Offer.
Sheffield United plc has recently transferred its quotation to
the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London
Stock Exchange, which we believe is of value to
shareholders given the size of the organisation. The AIM
market does not require such comprehensive reporting
procedures as for those companies who have a full listing,
and thus we should see a sensible reduction of annual
administration costs.
BOARD CHANGES
The Board of the Parent Company was strengthened by the
appointment of Mark Fenoughty as finance director in July
2003. Mark brings with him much experience of the football
industry, having previously been in a similar position at
Leicester City F.C. Importantly Mark is a life-long supporter
of the Blades.
My colleague, Derek Dooley, has retired from the Board but
remains as our much admired Football Club Chairman.
Derek is still on hand to assist the executive team with
football related matters and, more importantly, to continue
the splendid ambassadorial role he has carried out for
Sheffield United over so many years.
The accompanying Finance Report and Business Review
provides members with a comprehensive report of the
company's wide ranging activities where all colleagues
work hard to advance turnover and with it profitability on
an annual basis.
On what has proved to be a most successful period for
Sheffield United, could I praise all members of the team -
both on and off the field of play - be it at Bramall Lane or
the Academy for their tremendous effort and the
consistency they have applied on behalf of shareholders
and supporters alike.
Finally my gratitude to co-directors on the Boards of the
Parent Company, Sheffield United F.C. and the Academy for
their time, support and dedication.
Up the Blades!
Kevin McCabe
Chairman
15 October 2003
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 6
Sheffield United plc On what has proved to be a most successful period
for Sheffield United, could I praise all members of
the team - both on and off the field of play
Sheffield United plc