 3 Chairman's Statement 3
Chairman's Statement 
Sherwood International Plc has rich and unique credentials as a global software
solutions provider. Since its establishment in 1970, Sherwood has focused its
expertise on the insurance industry and since 1985, on government sectors.
Sherwood offers a broad range of products and talent gained through thirty
years of solution provision to its customers worldwide.
The year 2002 has been a particularly turbulent and unpredictable year for Sherwood's constituent
industries of IT and insurance. However, against a backdrop of uncertain market conditions, the Group has
maintained steady progress and is pleased to announce a balanced set of results, in line with expectations.
Consolidation of a new Executive team under the leadership of Mike Shinya as Chief Executive Officer
occured this year. The prime focus for the Executives over the past year has been to drive through a
programme of operational excellence in order to ensure Sherwood is in a strong position to compete
effectively in the face of what continue to be challenging market conditions.
In line with Sherwood's overall objective of achieving solution excellence, the primary research and
development focus for 2002 was to leverage the Group's existing intellectual properties and round out the
product suite in order to meet requirements of key customers; it also helped to underline the Group's clear
competitive advantage as the only software vendor able to deliver a full range of solutions across all lines
of business in the global insurance industry. 
The Company launched an administration product based on FrontTier
 
in the North American market, and
has already established its first reference client. Investment was also made on a new claims management
solution that will be launched in the first quarter of 2003. Sherwood plans to deliver a new agency and
commissions (ICM) product in 2003, focusing on the North American life marketplace.
Sherwood broadened its mid-range solutions in response to an increased market demand for phased 
or modular implementation of IT projects. Amarta
 
LIFE FAST START was launched in June and leverages
the Company's insurance expertise in order to pre-populate Amarta
 
with templates, whilst providing a
framework for more bespoke development in the longer term. This enables Sherwood to transition from
selling big project solutions to also offering a more modular approach.
Sherwood International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 3 4 Chairman's Statement 
Sherwood has developed products and services capable of winning an 
outstanding number of licence sales even in a tough economic climate. 
The year saw a record number of licence contracts won
(twenty-seven in total). In part this is reflective of the
increasing trend toward modular or phased approaches 
to solution procurement, and also of the fact that Sherwood
has deployed products and services capable of winning an
outstanding number of licence sales even in a tough
economic climate.
Sherwood has made great progress in strengthening
relationships with strategic partners. During 2002 the
Company increased its presence with outsourcing partners
Liberata and Capita, and Sherwood's efforts to extend
geographic coverage through strong strategic partnerships
were also well rewarded with particular success in both
AsiaPac and South Africa. In September the Group announced
a partnership agreement with Hewlett-Packard (HP) to 
co-develop solutions for the Chinese insurance market.
Sherwood also recently signed a global joint sales agreement
with IBM that will serve to expand and increase the velocity
of business scope and penetration, and continues to work
closely with Deloitte Consulting at the strategic and
customer engagement levels.
In the long term, the effective use of research and
development investment is a key strategy for Sherwood and
a critical review this year has set out a clear technology vision
for the Group. Sherwood has grown by acquisition, and each
purchase brought a new set of technologies. Sherwood is
now concentrating its intelligence on a programme to
aggregate its technology set, planning in 2003 to achieve
significant milestones in development coalescence for the
Sherwood
 
Enterprise Framework.
Results in Brief
The Group returned to profitability in 2002. Pre-tax profits
before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
grew by 137% to  5.7m (2001:  2.4 million). Profit before tax
was  0.1m (2001: loss  11 million). Basic earnings per share
before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles and
with a normalised tax charge grew 232% to 12.6p (2001:
3.8p), while diluted earnings per share on the same basis
grew 213% to 11.9p (2001: 3.8p). Basic earnings per share
were 0.3p (2001: loss 25.6p). Diluted earnings per share were
0.3p (2001: loss 25.6p). Turnover was impacted by the
challenging economic climate, and decreased in the year by
8% to  52.2m (2001:  56.5m). 
Exceptional items totalling  4.6m were deducted in 2002,
principally related to redundancies and property costs incurred
as part of restructuring activities offset by  2m of exceptional
income relating to the settlement reached with various parties
in respect of the Court judgement against the Company in
2001, as previously reported.
Sherwood's balance sheet remains exceptionally strong 
with cash of  11.4m, up  5.4m on the previous year end. 
Dividend
In 2001, the Company cancelled the final dividend and
indicated that it would review the situation in 2002, taking
into account the performance of the business and best
practice within the IT sector. Accordingly, and in the light 
of modest but satisfactory trading results and positive cash,
the Directors have proposed a 2002 dividend of 1p per share,
which will be paid on 6 May 2003 to shareholders on the
register as at 4 April 2003. 
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 4 5 Chairman's Statement 
Business Review
The results in 2002 were achieved through a disciplined 
and focused approach to reducing operational inefficiency
within the Group. Significant progress has been made 
in implementing programmes aimed at streamlining
operations, rationalising functions, and controlling costs. 
The Group added a number of new blue chip clients to its
insurance customer base including Aviva, the UK's largest
insurer and one of the top five Life Insurance companies in
Europe, and TransGuard Insurance in America. Sherwood also
extended contracts with major existing customers such as
New York Life and AXA.
As mentioned earlier, Sherwood strengthened its geographic
coverage and strategic alliances during 2002, increasing its
presence with outsourcing partners and offering the
technology backbone Amarta
 
to a number of high-profile
end-users as a result of these relationships. 
Sherwood's success is in large part founded on its ability 
to deliver products, solutions, and services that are driven 
by customers' requirements. Over the last two years, 
the Company has seen a high demand from customers 
for solutions that enable the devolution of large-scale 
IT projects into more manageable pieces that can 
be implemented faster and impart a speedier return 
on investment. 
Sherwood has identified key market entry and expansion
points during 2002 and has moved swiftly to deliver products
to take full advantage of these opportunities. During the first
half of 2003 Sherwood will introduce a claims management
system, which has already been validated by strategic
customers, together with roll-out of the new group
administration system in North America, which already has its
first customer. In the second half of this year Sherwood plans
to introduce an agency and commissions product to further
expand market prospects, for both this solution and other
Sherwood products.
The Executive Team
Under the leadership of CEO Mike Shinya, the Group 
has made considerable progress in delivering upon its stated
aim of achieving organisational excellence. 
During the year two non-executive Directors, John Barton
and John Sacher, retired from the Board. On behalf of both
our shareholders and the board as a whole, I would like to
thank both of them for their contributions to the Company.
In September 2002 Sherwood announced the appointment
of three high calibre non-executive Directors. Sherwood's
Senior non-executive Director Stuart Drew is a Director of
Deloitte Consulting with responsibility for the insurance
industry, further endorsing the Group's expertise in that
arena. Philip Crawford joins as non-executive Director and
formerly was President of i2 Technologies EMEA, CEO of
InterX, and held a number of key executive posts at Oracle
including Senior Vice President. Non-executive Director
Robert Youngjohns is Executive Vice President of Global Sales
Operations for Sun Microsystems and brings a broad
international knowledge of the IT sector.
Chairman's Statement (continued)
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 5 6 Chairman's Statement 
Staff
Sherwood's business is fiercely client-focused, aiming to
build on and maintain long term customer relationships. As
such, management and staff are critical to Sherwood's
services' and products' excellence. The Group's employees
have demonstrated the skills, depth of experience, and
dedication so important in providing the very best solutions
available in the industry today; I extend my thanks to them all.
The Group implemented a necessary reduction in the
workforce at the start of the year, which I am pleased to 
say has avoided the need for any further major cutbacks.
Sherwood moves into 2003 with a significantly flatter
structure and fewer headcount overall, tactically deployed to
drive the business forward, always with the clients' 
needs in mind.
Outlook
The year 2002 was one of transition for Sherwood that 
will serve as a foundation for further progress in 2003.
Sherwood is now in a strengthened position to capitalise 
on opportunities as they emerge. I firmly believe that the
Group's performance over 2002, with no debt, a positive cash
flow, and delivering operational profits, distinguishes
Sherwood manifestly from its peers in the enterprise
software sector. 
The Group is in a leading position given its customer base,
workforce alignment and array of product sets. Sherwood
has strong, long term, and recurring revenue streams and
continues to aggressively and strategically invest in product
research and development. 
During 2003 Sherwood plans to introduce new products 
to address specific needs within the insurance sector. 
These include group administration, claims management,
agency and commissions, and a business process modelling
tool that can be used in conjunction with Sherwood's
product suite.
The strategy and focus for 2003 is to generate profitable
business growth via a combination of operational excellence,
product leadership, and by building new relationships to
address developing market areas. 
I look forward to and welcome the occasion to update
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ken Andrew
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
3 March 2003
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 6