 Chairman's Statement
Margins
Increased costs and adverse changes in the sales mix caused
operating profit margins to decline in all three geographic
regions. The overall Group operating margin declined from 5.4%
in 2001 to 4.6% in 2002.
Earnings and Dividends
Earnings per share in 2002 were 26.3p compared with 28.8p
(restated for FRS 19) in 2001. A final dividend of 7 .7p is 
proposed, subject to shareholders' approval. This would make
the total dividend for the year 1 1.6p, up 5.5% from the 1 1.0p paid
in 2001. This represents the ninth successive year of increased
dividend and reflects the Board's confidence in the future
prospects of the Group.  
If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 16 May 2003
to shareholders on the register at 1 1 April 2003.
Acquisitions
Six acquisitions were made during the year, five in the UK and
one in the Netherlands, for a total consideration of  23.8m. 
The greatest focus for this investment has been within the UK
roofing market.
Finances
Cash flow strengthened progressively throughout the year, and
gearing fell to 63% compared with 66% at the end of 2001 and
7 4% at 30 June 2002. Interest and dividend cover, whilst below
2001 levels, remain healthy, and the Group has a sound 
financial position.
Trading Conditions
In the UK and Republic of Ireland overall demand in the 
building and construction sectors was positive, which benefited
the roofing and building insulations businesses. Demand from
the more specialist industrial insulation sector declined. The
decline in tenant occupancy in the office market caused a sharp
fall in demand for ceilings and partition products, negatively
impacting on sales and operating margins in the Commercial
Interiors operations.
In mainland Europe market demand for commercial interiors
products fell across the areas in which the Group operates. This
affected the businesses in France, the Netherlands, Poland and
Germany.   
In Germany it is estimated that demand for products from the
wider building and construction sector fell by around 10%.
In the USA overall demand from the core industrial and 
petrochemical market remains depressed.
To summarise, more than half of the markets in which the Group
operates experienced reduced demand in 2002. Against this
background, the like for like sales growth achieved in all areas
justifies the investments made during the year to develop and
strengthen the position of the Group for the future.
The Group increased sales substantially in 2002, despite a
sharp decline in the market for commercial interiors 
products across Europe, and a more general reduction in
building activity in Germany. Sales were increased on a like
for like
1
basis in all three geographic regions in local 
currency (UK and Republic of Ireland, mainland Europe and
the USA). In addition, the acquisitions made during 2002 
performed well and contributed to the Group's top line
growth.
As the year progressed, it became evident that despite the 
overall sales growth, profits would be below prior year.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, which was in line
with market expectations, fell by 2%. This fall was due to:
l adverse changes in the mix of sales
l increased investment in new branches and 
customer-focused resources
l one-off charges arising from a cost rationalisation 
programme.
Whilst the decline in profits is disappointing, when considered
against the very difficult conditions in a number of markets 
in which the Group operates and the costs incurred in 
improving the business for the longer term, the underlying
strength and resilience of the Group is clearly demonstrated.
Results
Sales
Sales increased by  1 17 .7m (1 1.4%) to  1,155m. Of this growth,
 77 .2m (66%) was organic and  40.5m (34%) came from
acquisitions made during 2002. It is believed that this 
performance demonstrates gains in market share in most of our
major markets. Geographically, sales performance was as 
follows;
UK and Republic of Ireland: Sales up 15%, an overall increase
of  95.7m. Growth was achieved in all three main product 
sectors of Insulation, Roofing and Commercial Interiors.
Mainland Europe: Sales were increased by 6% in local 
currencies and growth was achieved in each country, 
i.e. Germany, France, the Netherlands and Poland.
USA: Despite the depressed market conditions, a small sales
increase was achieved (in US dollars) as a result of the new
branch openings mid-year.
Profits
l Operating profits before goodwill amortisation were  57 .9m 
(2001:  59.1m). This is after charging exceptional costs of 
 2.3m arising from the rationalisation programme 
implemented towards the year end.
l Profit before tax and goodwill amortisation was  50.9m 
(2001:  54.1m), a decline of  3.2m (5.9%).
l Profit before tax after goodwill amortisation of  4.5m 
(2001:  2.8m) was  46.3m (2001:  51.3m), representing 
a decline of  5m (9.6%).
1  like for like' in this context means excluding the sales of acquisitions 
made in 2001 and 2002.
We have performed well
10  SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The Board is aware of recent recommendations and reports
concerning corporate governance and the composition and
structure of the boards of listed companies. The various 
recommendations are actively discussed and considered by the
Board on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that the highest
standards of corporate governance are maintained.
Prospects
Overall, we expect no material change in market conditions in
2003. In the UK and Republic of Ireland, the housing market for
both new build and repairs and maintenance is expected to
remain sound. Non-housing construction is expected to remain
broadly flat, with the exception of office interiors, which is 
expected to decline further in 2003. The new insulation 
standards are beginning to have a positive impact on new 
building activity and this influence is expected to continue 
progressively throughout the year.  
Overseas, we expect construction activity in Germany to decline
further but to remain broadly stable in France, the Netherlands
and Poland. Industrial demand in the USA is expected to 
continue at similar levels to 2002.
Against the background of considerable macro-economic
uncertainty, the Group expects to benefit from the actions taken
last year to gain market share in a number of areas of operation,
and from the restructuring programme implemented towards the
end of the year.
The Group enters 2003 with sound finances and a strong 
position in all its main markets. The Board looks forward with
confidence to further progress.
Barrie Cottingham, Non-Executive Chairman
Pensions
The Group has four defined benefits pension schemes in 
existence with combined active membership of 296 employees,
constituting less than 8% of UK employees. Money purchase
arrangements exist for all other employees in the UK. All four
defined benefits schemes were closed to new members some
years ago. After consultation with the active membership of the
largest scheme during the year, certain changes were made to
the future contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future
liabilities. 
Under FRS 17 Retirement benefits (which the Group intends to
adopt in accordance with requirements in 2005), the total net
deficit at the year end on the four defined benefit schemes
amounted to  13.957m (2001:  5.413m). Had the standard
been adopted in 2002, the impact on the profit and loss
account would have been minimal.
Employees
The drive, creativity and professionalism of our people are the
hallmark by which the Group is recognised across all the trading
activities. I would like to pay tribute to all our employees for their
vital contribution to SIG in 2002.
Board
We have recently announced the appointment of two new 
non-executive directors to the Board, with effect from 1 March
2003. Les Tench (57), until recently managing director of 
CRH-Europe, Building Products, takes on the role of senior 
independent director. He is joined by David Haxby (61), 
previously a senior partner with an international accountancy
practice and presently a non-executive director with Cattles plc
and Cyberes plc.  
The new directors each bring considerable experience and will
add significantly to the Board. As the Company continues to
move forward, I believe they will both make an important 
contribution. These appointments, particularly the newly created
post of a senior independent director, strengthen further the
Board from a corporate governance perspective.
Nick Paul, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in
2001 has decided to step down from SIG, with effect from 
1 March 2003, in order to concentrate on other business 
interests. The Board thanks him for his valuable contribution.
in very difficult conditions.
We have continued to invest for
future growth and have performed
well in very difficult markets.
Barrie Cottingham, Non-Executive Chairman
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002  11