 3
sirius financial solutions plc
REVIEW OF RESULTS
I am delighted to report
an excellent year for
Sirius with
improvements in all
key areas of
financial
performance.
Turnover grew by 5.7%
to  21.7m (2003:
 20.5m), and operating profit
before goodwill amortisation was ahead
of the Board's expectations at  1.4m (2003:  0.4m). After
charging goodwill amortisation, interest and tax the profit for
the year was  0.2m (2003: loss of  0.7m). In 2004 the Group
continued to generate strong operating cash inflows, which for
the year amounted to  2.6m (2003:  0.7m).
The 2004 results are all the more remarkable as during the
year Sirius adopted its new business model and incurred the
cost of its new head office. The improved working environment
arising from the move to new offices was one of the key
factors in the considerable improvements achieved in the
contribution from professional services. 
The Group's turnover growth for the year was supported in
part by a 9.8% increase in recurring revenues to  7.6m (2003:
 6.9m). Recurring revenues continue to increase as a
proportion of turnover, accounting for 35.0% of total Group
turnover in 2004 (2003: 33.8%). This improving trend is a
direct result of larger Solutions projects moving into their care
and maintenance phase, and a planned focus on moving the
business model to annual charges and away from large
upfront licences.     
A static staff cost base set against the higher turnover level for
the year resulted in improved margins from service revenues.
Whilst maintaining the commitment to ongoing investment in our
applications, the amount of unfunded research and development
activity undertaken by Sirius was reduced by comparison to
2003. This was made possible by a number of measures
including effective project management which removed the need
to engage sub-contract labour, and the establishment of our
own off-shore development capability in India. 
Last year I reported that 2003 had been a challenging year
with a record number of large projects to deliver. It is pleasing
to report that these challenges were successfully overcome
and that in 2004 the business maintained a strong focus and
control over our operations that is apparent in the Group's
improved financial performance for the year. I can report that
good progress was made in 2004 against all developments
and that Sirius continues to make successful project deliveries. 
Following the successful go-live of our first Managed Service
Provision (MSP) customer, Country Mutual Insurance
Brokers, we undertook a re-launch of our Sirius for Broking
product in December 2004 under the Sirius 21 banner. Sirius
21 adopts the MSP deployment method. It is our aim to sell
Sirius 21 to both new customers and convert existing users to
this model. Early response has been
very encouraging, not only in
terms of take up and
acceptance, but also in
the benefits to be gained
from improved and
reduced costs of
maintenance.
The strong operating
cash inflows generated by
the Group helped to remove all
gearing as at 31 December 2004
(2003: gearing of 20.9%) and contributed towards the year
end net cash position of  0.5m (2003: net debt of  1.1m).
This net cash position is after applying the proceeds from the
disposal of the Group's vacant freehold property in Sutton
Coldfield, and payment of cash consideration in December
2004 to the vendors of Datasure Management Systems
Limited, which was subsequently renamed Sirius Datasure
Limited (Sirius Datasure).
Following an excellent year of cash inflows, the Board propose
a final dividend for 2004 of 1.0p per share (2003: 0.5p).
NEW BUSINESS MODEL
From the outset of 2004 we have operated under a new
business model. In common with other software companies,
Sirius had for many years relied on an element of licence sales
chairman's statement in order to achieve its revenue and profit targets. We
concluded that the Group had grown too dependent upon
large initial licence fees and that this combined with prolonged
sales cycles and contract negotiations had led to a high
degree of unpredictability and volatility in our revenues.
To remove most of the unpredictability of licence revenues, the
Board decided to change the business model, and in 2004 we
began the transition from licencing our software on a perpetual
basis to licencing for a finite term - term licencing. This provides
greater opportunity for future licence sales from existing
customers, thus reducing the reliance on new customer wins. In
this regard, 2004 was a year of transition with good progress
made on major contracts. This model will be more extensively
applied going forward and it should be remembered that in the
medium term revenue growth and therefore profitability will be
lower than under our previous model. After this transition period
the Group will benefit from the comfort of more predictable and
sustainable revenues and profits.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
The acquisition of a 75.8% shareholding in Sirius Datasure
supports our increasing commitment to the New Zealand and
Australia region. Sirius Datasure is the leading supplier in New
Zealand of broking software systems with a market share in
excess of 60.0%. It is our intention to launch the Sirius for
Broking product in New Zealand by quarter four of 2005. This
will provide an upgrade path for Sirius Datasure's existing
customers and expand the company's market presence. 
During the year our customer IAG undertook a strategic review
of their IT requirements. They concluded not to proceed with
the deployment of Sirius for Insurance, deciding instead that the
system in use at their Australian parent should be extended into
IAG's operations in New Zealand. Whilst this is disappointing, it
has not altered our original assessment that the region has
excellent potential for both our broking and insurer products. In
support of this assessment, we are pleased to have signed
contracts with two new insurer customers in Australia during the
first quarter of 2005. These two customers should provide the
necessary credentials and comfort for the larger prospects that
we have already engaged with.
BUSINESS AND PRODUCT REVIEW
We draw your attention to the Business Review on pages 6
and 7. In this section of our Report and Accounts we provide
a statement on the progress made by each of our business
units during the year, including commentary on our three
software applications: Sirius for Broking, Sirius for Insurance
and Swift. 
OFFICES
Head Office
A key event for the Group was the move, in January 2004,
from our offices of 15 years in Sutton Coldfield to a new, larger
head office within the Birmingham Business Park. We are
delighted that the move went so smoothly and that we
continue to benefit from the much improved location and
facilities offered by our new accommodation. 
India
Following the success of our pilot office in Delhi, established
during 2004 with 12 staff, we are now in the process of
expanding this operation. The quality and cost effectiveness of
software development undertaken by our Indian workforce
supported the move in April 2005 to larger premises, again in
Delhi, which will facilitate expansion up to a total of 30
employees.
New Zealand
Following the acquisition of Sirius Datasure in December 2004,
we have closed the Group's small office in Wellington and are
in the process of relocating our staff to Sirius Datasure's
premises in Auckland.
PRINCE'S TRUST
I am delighted to announce that Sirius
has given it's support to the
Prince's Trust - the UK's leading
charity which helps improve the
lives of disadvantaged young
people - by becoming a Patron.
Our involvement with the Trust
has also led to us spearheading
the Insurance Leadership Group
4
chairman's statement (cont.) 5
sirius financial solutions plc
which has positioned Sirius at the forefront of this prominent
networking forum to increase the insurance industry's profile
within business and government.
EMPLOYEES 
The Board would like to record its appreciation of our
employees who continue to demonstrate considerable
commitment and skill in pursuing the Group's vision for market
leadership. We continue to invest in the professional
development of our employees, which includes a management
training programme in association with the Open University
Business School.
SUMMARY 
At the beginning of 2004, we set ourselves a number of
specific goals and we are pleased to be able to report positive
progress against all of them. All of the main initiatives planned
and introduced for 2004 have been successful in both
implementation and impact. They include:
  Significant improvement to recoverable man-time
revenues.
  Launch of the Sirius for Broking product as an MSP
deployment under the Sirius 21 banner.
  Establishment of a presence in Australia, with the Group's
first two customer contracts secured in the first quarter of
2005.
  Establishment of a greater presence in New Zealand
through the acquisition of the largest insurance broking
software house.
  Sirius for Insurance increasing its market acceptance with
30 customers.
  Securing the largest order to date for our Swift application,
from Zurich Financial Services Group.
  Investment in off-shoring with the set up and recruitment
of our office in Delhi, which is now set to expand.
We forecast that the move to term licencing would, inevitably,
result in reduced growth until such time as the Group builds a
larger base of recurring revenues. The encouraging
performance of 2004 supports the Board's belief that this is a
course of action that the business was right to take and that
substantial benefits will follow in the medium term and beyond. 
The financial and operational performance for the year
represents a marked improvement over 2003, and provides a
strong foundation upon which to build further returns in 2005.
OUTLOOK FOR 2005
In 2005, the Board expects
the business to build on
the established success
of Sirius for Insurance
with further growth in
sales from this product.
In the Intermediary
Systems business unit,
managed service revenue
growth will be driven from the
successful launch of Sirius 21 which is
expected to be significant in 2005.
The drive to improve the visibility of future revenues by selling
to new customers under term licence arrangements will
continue. Our base of recurring support and maintenance
revenues is expected to increase further as secured customers
go live with our applications, and as we continue to attract
new customers to our market leading products. 
Management continue to focus on improving the contribution
made by our professional service and development functions,
supported in part by our improved working environment in the
UK and the expansion of our development centre in India. 
The current financial year has started well, and is in line with
the Board's expectations. The improved structure and focus of
our business and the progress made in 2004 presents a
number of exciting opportunities which we confidently expect
to build upon.
Stephen J Verrall
Chairman and Group Chief Executive
14 April 2005