 Sirius Financial Solutions Plc
4
REVIEW OF RESULTS
In 2003, we focused upon
consolidating our earlier
successes and upon securing
an achievable and predictable
level of growth to generate
sustainable long-term rewards.
We were mindful that both the
technology and insurance
sectors were still in challenging
times, albeit we felt that we
were well positioned within a
sizeable and long-term market. 
2002 had been an exceptional year for the Group,
characterised by an exceptionally high level of turnover
growth (30.6%). We knew that the turnover levels of the
prior year would be hard to repeat and 2003 Group
turnover at  20.5m did indeed fall short of the 2002 level
of  22.7m.  Nevertheless, we feel that 2003 represented a
solid performance, and confirms our belief that we are
building a business with good medium to long-term
growth potential. Recurring revenues grew by 10.3% to
 6.9m (2002:  6.3m), a direct result of the larger Solutions
projects moving into their care and maintenance phase.
We entered 2003 with a record number of large projects
to deliver. Whilst managing these simultaneous projects
brought challenges, I can report that good progress was
made against all developments with more successful
deliveries than in any previous year. This was achieved by
increasing our commitment to research and development
and the use of contractor labour which together incurred
a one-off additional cost in the region of  0.75m.
During the year we also carried out our planned
investment in our new Managed Service Provision (MSP)
and Application Service Provider (ASP) operations. Set-up
of our MSP and ASP operations incurred one-off costs
which we believe were justified by the longer term
revenues that they will support. It is pleasing to report
that we have paying customers for both MSP and ASP .
In 2003, we also maintained our investment in our sales
capacity and support functions. The early part of the year
witnessed a high profile marketing campaign which
undoubtedly raised awareness of our Group and its
products and has created a valuable prospect pipeline.
To mitigate the impact of our increased research and
development costs, selective cost-cutting measures were
instigated in areas that would not compromise the
business, allowing us to continue with the
aforementioned planned strategically important
investments in service offerings and people. These two
actions combined to present a largely static cost base
which, set against lower turnover levels, resulted in an
operating profit before goodwill amortisation of  0.4m
(2002:  2.8m). After charging goodwill, the operating loss
was  0.5m (2002: operating profit of  1.9m).
We are pleased to report that the Group continues to
generate operating cash inflows, which for 2003
amounted to  0.7m (2002:  2.6m), and that as at
31 December 2003 gearing remained low at 20.9%.
In common with other software companies, our business
model has for many years relied on an element of licence
sales in order to achieve our revenue and profit goals. As
the Group has grown so has the size of the projects and
value of these licences. Dependence on larger initial
licence fees combined with prolonged sales cycles and
contract negotiations has led to a high degree of
unpredictability and volatility in our revenues.
Increasingly, we derive revenues from major contracts
where implementation can extend across financial years.
During 2003 major contracts, anticipated to complete
before the year end,  rolled over' into the next
trading year.  
To remove most of the unpredictability of licence
revenues, your Board has decided to change our business
model and in 2004 we will move from licensing our
software on a perpetual basis to annual licensing for a
committed minimum period    Term Licensing'.  
BUSINESS AND PRODUCT REVIEW
We draw your attention to the  Business Review' on pages
6 to 8. In this section of our Report and Accounts we
provide a more detailed statement on the progress made
by each of our operating units during the year, including
commentary on our three software applications: Sirius for
Broking, Sirius for Underwriting and Swift.  
OFFICES
In recent months the Group has relocated its Head office
and London office to more suitable premises, better
equipped to support our day-to-day activities and future
growth of the business.
Head Office
A key event for the Group was
the move, in January 2004,
from our offices of 15 years in
Sutton Coldfield to a new,
larger head office within the
Birmingham Business Park. The
Park is home to some of the
UK's leading companies and is
seen as a centre of excellence
for the technology sector.  We
are delighted that more than 95%
of our staff chose to move with us and have reacted very
positively to the improved working environment. 
Improved layout and slightly larger premises give us
capacity for growth across all of our operations. The new
office provides much improved facilities for customers as
well as staff, and we are seeing gains in quality, efficiency
and productivity as a consequence. Offering three times
as many training and presentation rooms as our former
offices and with superb transportation links, the office
significantly extends our ability to run in-house sales and
customer events.
Stephen Verrall
Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive
Chairman's Statement Sirius Financial Solutions Plc
5
London Office
In December 2003 we
relocated our London office
which is an important facility
for hosting insurance
providers and some premier
intermediaries. Many of these
national and international
companies are headquartered
in London and, as a result, an increasing proportion of our
business now takes place in the capital. Our larger
London office gives us more space for resident and
visiting staff and provides improved presentation
facilities.
New Zealand
As planned, 2003 also saw the opening of our office in
New Zealand to support our major client in the region,
Insurance Australia Group.
EMPLOYEES
Sirius continues to benefit from a skilled and experienced
workforce. To assist in the continued development of our
employees, we have set up a sponsored management
training programme in association with the Open
University Business School. 
In addition to building strategic business development
partnerships with third parties, we have invested in our
sales force through a number of senior sales
appointments and a professional sales training
programme. Early 2004 appointments have included a
Regional Manager for the Asia Pacific region who is
based in Australia, a Head of Sales in the US and a Sales
Director at MEDIAmaker.
The Board would like to record its appreciation of the
considerable efforts and dedication displayed by its
employees in the past year.
CORPORATE CHANGES
As announced in our 2002 Report and Accounts, June saw
the Group's listing transfer back to the Alternative
Investment Market (AIM).  
In May 2003, we appointed David Cox and Michael
Anstee as non-executive Directors. We feel David has
much to contribute to our strategic development. He has
over 30 years' experience of the IT industry, operating at
the highest executive levels for organisations including
IBM.  David has also held board level responsibility for IT
within financial services companies such as Royal
SunAlliance and Barclays Bank. Michael brings back to
the Board his long-term knowledge and understanding of
Sirius and is a recognised figure in the UK general
insurance arena.
We thank John Brown, who on attaining his 70th birthday,
retired from the Board as a non-executive Director. John
provided unstinting and loyal support during his five
years in office.
It is also with deep regret we inform you that Richard Pople
passed away in February 2004 at the age of 59. Richard was
a founding Director and shareholder of the business.
Although he had been retired for five years, he is still fondly
remembered as the principal development author of all
our early products by both customers and staff.
SUMMARY 
Whilst 2003 was a more challenging year than expected,
we feel that we have steered a sensible course in terms of
meeting the delivery needs of existing customers,
continuing to invest in our products and attracting new
customers to Sirius. 
At the beginning of the year, we set ourselves a number
of specific goals and we are pleased to be able to report
positive progress against most of them. We have not
deviated from our primary aim to become a global leader
in the provision of insurance software.
The move to term licensing will, inevitably, result in
reduced profit levels in the short term until such time as
we build a base of recurring license revenue. We believe
this is a sacrifice that the business should make in order to
reap the benefits in the medium term and beyond.
Combined with our existing sizeable recurring revenue
base, this will allow us to advance towards our goal of a
more predictable and sustainable revenue model.
The Directors consider it prudent to re-base our dividend
levels and recommend a reduced final dividend for 2003
of 0.5p (2002: 1.7p) per share.
OUTLOOK FOR 2004
2004 marks Sirius' 20th anniversary, a milestone for any
company and a period that has marked many industry
and Company achievements for Sirius. We continue to
feel that the outlook is a positive one, and that the efforts
of 2003 have built a solid foundation from which to take
the Group forward. 
2004 has got off to an encouraging start, aided by a
healthy order book and improved daily recovered rates
across our professional services and development
functions. We now have a more contemporary business
model and simplified operating structure.
During the year we will continue to leverage our three
market leading products and maintain our aim to become
a global leader in the provision of insurance software. 
2004 will also see the opening of a supplemental
development capability in India. This will enable the
Company to grow its development revenues more cost-
effectively and maintain an ongoing commitment to
research and development.  
The Board will also be looking to strengthen the
management team and increase its commitment in the
area of strategic planning. This aims not only to continue
to secure short-term success but also to develop the
products and strategies that will enable Sirius to look
forward to a further 20 years. 
Stephen J Verrall
Chairman and Group Chief Executive
21 April 2004