  
  SIRIUS EXPLORATION PLC 
 3
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
 
Dear Shareholders 
 
It is with great pleasure that I write to you as fellow shareholders for the first time. 
 
The United Nations estimates that by 2050 the global population will reach 9 billion. This rapid 
growth in the global population coupled with enormous urbanisation in the developing world is 
placing increasing strain on our planet. The questions of how to provide sustainable supplies of clean 
water, energy and food are ones that we need to focus on. 
 
Hunger and malnutrition are already global problems. The mid-term goal, formulated during the 
World Food Summit, of halving the number of undernourished people in developing countries by 
2015 and the long-term goal of feeding a growing population will require more intensive agricultural 
crop production. The United Nations believes we need to produce 70% more food from the existing or 
shrinking amount of agricultural land to adequately feed the world in the future. That is before the 
increasing trend of growing feedstocks on arable land for biofuels. Sustainable intensification is the 
prime option for meeting future food needs and protecting natural resources. That means deploying the 
right nutrient source at the right rate at the right time and place. The key nutrients for optimising plant 
growth are nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium. 
 
As the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations says, a critical policy issue for 
efficient mineral fertilizer use is to make fertilizer application profitable for farmers who currently are 
using too little fertilizer to attain required production increases, and to counteract land degradation 
from soil nutrient mining. The world needs more mineral fertilizers and increased nutrient efficiency, 
especially in intensive crop production systems. A great deal of the existing knowledge of  what' and 
 how' needs to be transferred to farmers. China understands the importance of this issue and is in the 
process of deploying 100,000 agronomists and experts to provide training to farmers on balanced 
fertilization. (Potash Corp Q2 Market Analysis Report 11 June 2010) 
 
Of the three key nutrients, potassium (potash) is the one in which most soils are deficient within the 
key markets of China, India, the rest of Asia and Latin America. Fertecon and Potash Corp estimate 
that to reach optimal potash application rate and to meet growing food demand, potash use will need to 
double from 50 million tons per annum (mtpa ) to 100mtpa in the next 10 years. 
 
The supply demand dynamic for potash is fascinating. Whilst it is needed worldwide to enhance plant 
growth (there is no substitute for potassium), only 12 countries produce potash. The U.S. Geological 
Survey estimates that Canada dominates production and has half the world's reserves in the Williston 
Basin in Saskatchewan. Canada, Russia and Belarus together account for 80% of the world's reserves 
and 67% of production. Such a concentration of supply in a global market is limited to very few 
commodities and provides for extreme price inelasticity. The barriers to entry are relatively high 
because of the scarcity of commercially viable potash deposits. 
 
What does all this mean for Sirius? 
 
We intend to become a significant potash producer as quickly as possible. 
 
We have acquired 100% ownership of four potash companies in the last year. Dakota Salts with 
tenements in the Williston Basin, Queensland Potash and Adavale Holdings with tenements in the 
Adavale Basin in Queensland and Derby Salt with tenements in the Canning Basin in Western 
Australia. We have retained Boyd PetroSearch and North Rim Exploration as technical advisers and 
the interpretation of the seismic data to date in all three locations is encouraging. Investigations are on-
going to determine the feasibility of developing solution mining operations. 
   
  SIRIUS EXPLORATION PLC 
 4
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
The majority of the focus to date has been applied to Dakota Salts given its proximity to the current 
potash operations in the Williston Basin over the border in Saskatchewan, Canada. We have been 
working closely with the North Dakota Government to finalise an appropriate operating and taxation 
regime for potash exploration and production within the State. We have developed an excellent 
working relationship with the relevant officials and stakeholders and have been pleased with the 
enthusiasm and cooperation we have received to date. We are hopeful that we will have appropriate 
regulations in place within the next legislative session. This will allow us to plan with more certainty 
and facilitate acceleration in the rate of development activities. It is hoped that our initial drilling 
campaign will commence in the fourth quarter of 2010. 
 
Recent analysis of existing and new seismic data available on Queensland Potash's tenements within 
the Adavale Basin has not only confirmed the salt thickness that has been in previous technical reports 
but has also indicated a greater salt extent than was originally determined. This is encouraging as it 
provides greater potash and salt potential than was first thought. Our advisers are similarly assessing 
the Canning Basin tenements and their potential for commercial potash operations. 
 
We will continue to develop these opportunities whilst also potentially acquiring other potash projects 
to diversify risk and ensure we move rapidly towards our goal of becoming a significant potash 
producer. Additional capital will need to be raised to develop these opportunities and discussions with 
strategic and other investors will continue to ensure fundraising initiatives are optimised. 
 
Sirius has other opportunities associated with its salt tenements in all three jurisdictions. We are 
continuing to investigate the possibilities to develop businesses in the areas of clean energy, gas 
storage and chemical plants. The technical relationships with Schlumberger, EPRI, Basin Energy and 
the University of Queensland bode well for the Group, and we hope to build from here to advance the 
current initiatives and exploit alternative opportunities. 
 
The highlights have been as follows: 
 
  raised  2.8m of new funding from institutional investors for use as working capital; 
  intangible assets increased from  1.2m to  54.3m; 
  established US ADR facility and listing on the OTCQX platform, arranged by Deutsche Bank, 
giving us exposure to US investors; 
  acquired the remaining 49% of Dakota Salts LLC giving us 100% ownership and control of the 
exploration permits; 
  acquired 100% of Auspotash Corporation giving us control of the exploration permits held by 
Queensland Potash and included Canadian $2 million of cash deposits; 
  acquired 100% of Adavale Holdings Pty Limited which holds exploration permits for land 
adjacent to the Queensland Potash properties; 
  acquired 100% of Derby Salt Pty Limited which holds exploration permits in the Kimberley 
region of Western Australia; 
  acquired 100% of the technology companies and patent applications of CO
2
 Energy Storage Pty 
Limited (Queensland), Bicarb Sequestration Pty Limited and CO
2
 Energy Storage Limited, 
(Nevada) USA; 
  began research programmes into CAES (Compressed Air Energy Storage) and carbon 
sequestration in relation to the properties in North America respectively; and 
  acquisition of a further 1,000 acres of lease areas adjacent to existing properties of Dakota Salts 
LLC. 
 
 
   
  SIRIUS EXPLORATION PLC 
 5
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
Post the year end, this momentum was continued, as we announced: 
 
  the award of a US$225,000 grant by the Industrial Commission of North Dakota under its 
Renewable Energy Program to our wholly owned subsidiary Dakota Salts LLC. 
 
We have in Sirius Exploration the makings of a significant company. The initial step on that journey is 
to focus on the rapid development of our various potash projects. The timing is right for the emergence 
of a new international group with a number of potash projects in various jurisdictions and we have the 
platform to grow the company in that direction. 
 
I would also like to mention the recent untimely passing of one of our directors. Dr Nicholas Badham 
was a founding director of this company and will be sorely missed. Our thoughts are with his family at 
this difficult time. 
 
In closing, I would like to thank our shareholders old and new for your support and I look forward to 
an exciting future for your company. 
 
 
Christopher Catlow 
Chairman 
 
 
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN'S NOTE 
 
Nick Badham died suddenly on 19 June 2010. He was on a geological field assignment in Spain doing 
what he loved most: checking on rocks. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him and I would 
like again to extend our sympathy formally to all his family. 
 
Richard Poulden 
Deputy Chairman 