 8 / 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
STRONG PERFORMANCE
TALENTED PEOPLE
GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT
DIGITAL FUTURE
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS
FINANCIAL FACTS & FIGURES
01
02 03
A YEAR OF PROGRESS 
BASED ON SOLID
FOUNDATIONS.
Our businesses already occupy strong
positions in their respective markets, and 
we are committed to growth as we pursue
increased shareholder value.
In television, we face the continued reduction
of our spot advertising revenues as audience
fragments in a multichannel world. We have
made good progress in developing alternative
advertising revenues such as sponsorship and
interactive advertising. We have also been
developing an enhanced online presence to
generate revenues directly from our viewers. 
In addition, programme sales in our network
programme production arm, SMG TV
Productions, grew by 23% in 2005. This
reflected increased sales in factual and
children's programming, alongside six
episodes of our ever-popular Glasgow
detective series, Taggart, and two 90 minute
episodes of our dramatisation of Ian Rankin's
Rebus, starring Ken Stott for the first time. 
We also benefited from our strategy of
extending our customer base for this business
beyond ITV1 and all the principal UK
broadcasters now buy programmes from us.
With the prospect of the BBC opening up
more commissions to outside production
companies, and a commitment from 
both the BBC and ITV to sourcing more
programming from the Nations and 
Regions, we are confident that we 
will see continued growth in this business.
Our facilities and channel management
business, SMG Solutions, also grew strongly 
in 2005 as it benefited from the first full year 
of our contract with SPL football rights holder,
Setanta, and revenues increased by 36%. This
business also stands to gain from any increase
in production in Scotland and we have recently
signed a four-year deal with BBC Scotland to
meet their outside broadcast requirements.
Virgin Radio's popularity with listeners grew
over the course of 2005, with listening
increasing by 16% over the course of the year.
This reflected a solid presenter line-up, an
attractive music policy and the addition of a
further digital-only station, Virgin Radio Xtreme,
during the year. We also announced the hiring
of Christian O'Connell - one of the most
critically acclaimed radio presenters in the UK
- and he took over the Virgin Radio Breakfast
Show in January 2006. Whilst we are still
awaiting his first official listening figures, 
initial indications are encouraging and we 
are confident that this show will prove popular
with listeners. 
We are now in the process of discussing with
OFCOM the extension of our national AM
licence through to 2012, for which we currently
pay in excess of  2m per year. We believe that
fees of this level are not sustainable in an
increasingly competitive digital environment
and we will be pursuing a reduction in this fee
going forward.
In our outdoor business, Primesight, we grew
our inventory of 6-sheet panels by 9% during
2005 to just over 13,500, from some significant
contract wins with, amongst others, David Lloyd
Leisure, Bestway, One Stop Shops and Spar.
We also expanded our large format Backlight
estate by 55% to 107 panels, making Primesight
the largest Backlight operator in London.
While our cinema business, Pearl & Dean
faced the loss of the UGC contract, equating
to 15% of the UK cinema market at the end 
of 2005, we continued to extend its share of
independent cinemas. We finished the year 
with 52% of this market, although our overall
market share slipped back to 25%. However,
we have extended our contract with our largest
customer, Vue Cinemas, by a further two years
through to the end of 2010.
04
02
02
01
SMG Solutions
Solutions is a fast-growing
part of our business,
producing high-quality
commercials for businesses
across Scotland and beyond.
Careers Scotland chose 
SMG Solutions to produce
their highest profile
campaign to date.
02
Xtreme Launch
Virgin Radio Xtreme was
launched at an exclusive 
gig in London. Indie-rock
band, The Ordinary Boys,
performed live at the 
launch, ensuring a high-
profile debut for the station. 
03
Primesight Backlight
Now the largest Backlight
operator in London,
Primesight is using this
strong foundation to expand
its presence in this high-
impact outdoor sector 
across the UK.
04
Vue Contract Extension
Pearl & Dean successfully
negotiated a two-year
extension of the Vue 
contract which secures 
the business until the 
end of 2010.
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE'S 
REVIEW
SMG-021 FRONT SECTION.qxp  21/4/06  10:05  Page 8 01
Digital Radio
By the end of 2005 23% of 
Virgin Radio's national listeners
listened through a digital platform.
This growing trend is expected 
to accelerate.
02
Primesight Hypertag Ads
Primesight Hypertag turns static
displays into interactive ones.
Consumers simply point and click
their mobile phones at the poster
or display which has been tagged
to access content.
03
pearlanddean.com
Pearl & Dean will capitalise on 
its popularity with cinema-goers
through the launch of its new
website, turning this famous
cinema brand into a consumer-
facing business.
04
Interactivity
New technology has already
transformed the way our
advertisers are able to interact 
with our digital viewers through 
the use of the red button  
on their remote controls.
05
Virgin Radio Podcasting 
Virgin Radio was the first 
radio station in the UK to make
broadcasts available to MP3 player
owners through  podcasting' . 
The station currently attracts
113,000 downloads per month.
04
STRONG PERFORMANCE
TALENTED PEOPLE
GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT
DIGITAL FUTURE
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS
FINANCIAL FACTS & FIGURES
Virgin Radio Xtreme joined our existing Virgin Radio
Classic Rock and Virgin Radio Groove services
online, on satellite TV and on DAB. These services
effectively extend our listener base and our resultant
attractiveness to advertisers and sponsors.
The outdoor industry will rely less heavily on digital
technology but has the advantages of ubiquity
and unavoidability. Nevertheless we continue to
experiment with and trial new technologies which
deliver an enhanced advertising experience.
Our cinema advertising business, Pearl & Dean,
is one of the most recognised brands in UK
advertising and is universally regarded as being
synonymous with cinema-going. However,
despite the affection in which it is held by film
lovers in the UK, it has remained an underused
consumer brand. We undertook significant
development work during 2005 to develop 
its consumer potential and earlier this year 
we launched a consumer-facing website -
pearlanddean.com - with compelling content for
users including: film news; reviews; postcode-
linked cinema listings; and a DVD rental club. 
We are already generating revenues from 
this site and we have plans to develop
pearlanddean.com further across 2006. 
Andrew Flanagan
Chief Executive
02
03
The media world is changing fast and SMG 
is responding by harnessing the latest
developments in digital technology to make 
our products and services available to
consumers wherever and whenever they
choose. More than that, we are capitalising 
on the growth in digital technologies to build 
on and develop the strength of our brands 
and the close affinity we enjoy with our 
viewers and listeners.
Television is perhaps the most evident
beneficiary from digital advances, with
interactive advertising and competitions now
featuring regularly in broadcasts, and we have
made significant progress in developing our
business as a result. Non-airtime revenues
currently only account for approximately 5% 
of television turnover and we plan to grow 
this to 25% in the next five years.
Our viewers in the North of Scotland already
benefit from our investment in new studio
facilities in Aberdeen and viewers in the central
belt will do so later in 2006 when we move 
our Glasgow-based operations to new, state-
of-the-art facilities on the banks of the River
Clyde in the summer. These facilities will 
also enhance the service that our channel
management and production arm, SMG
Solutions, is able to offer its expanding
customer base.
Following the re-branding of our Channel 3
franchises to STV this spring, we will launch a
significant online initiative designed to further
strengthen our relationship with our viewers
and to generate additional online and
interactive revenues.
Virgin Radio's status as one of the world's most
popular online radio stations places it at the
forefront of digital development and we have
made significant progress in developing this
further in recent times. The main service is also
available digitally on DAB and satellite TV and we
have recently reached agreement for carriage
on Freeview. A major benefit of our availability
on digital platforms is the migration of our
national audience from the poorer sound
quality of AM. By the end of 2005 23% of our
national listeners used digital and we expect
this to rapidly accelerate reversing the previous
trend of declining AM audiences. 
Our digital platform neutral approach also saw
us participate in trials of new AM-based DRM
technology and mobile phone broadcasts and
the station was the first in the UK to make
broadcasts available to MP3 player owners
through podcasting.  
We have further exploited the availability of
additional digital spectrum to launch a range 
of digital radio services. During the year,
05
10 / 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
CAPITALISING ON THE
GROWTH IN DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGIES.
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE'S 
REVIEW
01
SMG-021 FRONT SECTION.qxp  21/4/06  10:05  Page 10