 Performance
Last year represented solid progress on a number of fronts and this is particularly evident in our financial performance.  
Revenues were up 23 percent, from  10.3m in 2011 to  12.7m in 2012, and we are also pleased to report improvement 
in profitability.  The EBITDA result was a profit of  1.8m compared to  1.5m in 2011.  We are also very pleased to report 
further improvement to profit after tax, which rose to  0.3m (2011:  0.1m).  Since 2010, we have steadily extended our 
resourcing and investment in key operational areas, as part of our ongoing growth strategy, and it is particularly pleasing to 
see these measures pay off in the context of improving financial performance. 
We entered 2012 with plans to improve our acquisition rate of new clients and are glad to report that revenue from new 
clients generated 51 percent of our 2012 revenue, as compared to 21 percent in 2011.
Total license transactions including extension orders were 49 in 2012 (2011: 54).  License revenues grew by 20 percent 
and reflected a higher average deal size, validating our expectation that smaller initial orders from the previous year 
would generate larger extensions in 2012.  Growth in consulting and implementation services was even more marked and 
approached 50 percent. 
From a geographical standpoint, customers headquartered in new territories such as China and the Middle East made a 
major contribution to the year.  Our core innovation solution, Accolade
 
 Process Manager
 
, continued to account for the 
majority of revenues at 91 percent compared to 84 percent in 2011. 
At the date of this report, full-year 2013 revenue visibility incorporating booked revenue, contracted services business and 
the run rate of recurring contracts stands at  6.4m, compared to  6.0m at the same time last year.  Revenue visibility is 
more fully defined in Note 4.  
Strategy and Product
We have previously stated that Sopheon's growth strategies for 2012 and beyond center on three key objectives:
 	 Increase our rate of growth by deploying vertical-specific marketing strategies.  Coming into 2012 we 
realigned sales, product and marketing initiatives around target growth industries.  We revised our marketing approach to 
be a more vertical-specific, integrated mix of tactics including digital, web-based and social media methods as well as more 
traditional approaches such as conferences and direct mail.  Target sectors included consumer goods, food and beverage, 
chemical, high-tech and aerospace and defense.  Although we have seen significant success in the majority of these sectors, 
aerospace and defense has been held back by well publicized uncertainties around government procurement. 
 
 	 Broaden the use of our solutions within existing accounts.  We continue to expand the range of our innovation 
solutions to enable expansion within our customers.  An example is our recent release of Accolade 8.2, which introduces 
a new module Accolade Innovation Planner
 
 to assist companies in creating strategic enterprise innovation plans.  As 
reported last year, we also invested in our client growth strategy by focusing account management resources and 
marketing programs on growing within our customer base.
 	 Expand direct and indirect distribution channels to acquire new accounts.  During 2011 we hired new sales 
people to expand our direct distribution channel.  At the start of 2013, we underpinned our position in Germany through 
the acquisition of our reseller partner.  We also continued to build our relationships with consulting partners.  Evidence 
         6 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
STATEMENT FROM ThE ChAIRMAN  
                  AND ChIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICER
Accolade is a registered trademark of Sopheon plc.
Process Manager and Innovation Planner are trademarks of Sopheon plc. of progress during 2012 included our first sale into China, through a partner, and the announcement of a joint product 
and service offering with Kalypso, a major consulting firm in the innovation market.  In addition we won our second 
Saudi Arabia based customer and expect to expand into this region going forward.
Our investment in these strategic objectives started in 2011 and as we predicted, commercial results have started to 
come through in 2012.  On the product front, in 2011 we completed a full refresh of the technology platform upon which 
our core software offerings are built to make them Microsoft
 
 .net based.  We also introduced a new Agile development 
methodology designed to build products faster and do a better job of ensuring that they are in step with real customer 
needs.  In 2012, these changes resulted in a number of customer-focused releases, culminating in the landmark release of 
Accolade 8.2 at the start of 2013.  With this release, Sopheon continues to extend the market leadership of the Accolade 
solution with expanded functionality for innovation users and business processes.
As Sopheon grows, our solutions and market position also continue to evolve.  With the recent expansion of our solution 
footprint we have also evolved our market position.  Sopheon partners with customers to provide complete Enterprise 
Innovation Performance solutions including software, expertise, and best practices to achieve exceptional long-term revenue 
growth and profitability.  Sopheon's Accolade solution provides unique, fully-integrated coverage for the entire innovation 
management and new product development lifecycle.  For the first time, businesses can access a single source of the truth 
across strategic innovation planning, roadmapping, idea and concept development, process and project management, and 
portfolio and in-market management.
Our decision to sustain internal product development investment despite the ongoing economic uncertainty is serving us 
well in the present and will continue to fortify our business performance and potential in the days ahead.  
People
Sopheon is differentiated in the market by its reputation for deep domain expertise in innovation management.  That know-
how is embodied in our people, whose best-practice understanding and experience have been developed through many 
years of helping top businesses achieve innovation success.  We are very proud of the commitment that our people have 
shown in lifting Sopheon to a position of leadership in this area. 
Sopheon continues to recruit, grow and develop our people.  In 2011, as previously communicated, we identified that a 
key barrier to our ability to scale for growth was a lack of formal onboarding and certification training.  During 2012, 
we recruited a dedicated training specialist to close this gap.  We held our first formal training events during the year, 
which enjoyed excellent feedback.  Our goal is to reduce the ramp-up time for new employees, and in turn, improve our 
ability to scale our organization with growth while maintaining customer satisfaction.  This priority continues to have 
high visibility inside our company.  In addition, as part of our Accolade version 8 roll out programs we offered customers 
packaged training classes at Sopheon facilities for the first time.  The feedback and value received from our clients was 
overwhelmingly positive.  We will expand this program in 2013. 
Building on steps taken in 2011 to restructure and strengthen Sopheon's executive management team, we were pleased to 
round out our executive team with the recruitment of Mike Frichol to spearhead global marketing.  Mike has a great deal 
of experience with emerging high-growth software companies, and has held a number of senior positions in the industry at 
companies such as Great Plains Software, Infor, and Microsoft.
The Sopheon plc board is made up of three executive directors, augmented by three non-executive directors who bring a 
wealth of knowledge and experience to our business.  Details about each board member can be found at the back of this 
report.  
Outlook
We are delighted that revenues and profits for 2012 exceeded market expectations.  In parallel with this positive financial 
performance, Sopheon continued to make strategic advances during the year.  We announced major new product releases 
that further embed our leadership in enterprise innovation management.  We started 2013 with the acquisition of a long-
standing business partner in Germany, a key regional market.  Through 2012 and also coming into 2013, we have continued 
our steady expansion of resources to keep pace with our growth plans.  Nevertheless, market conditions remain hard to 
predict, and we continue to watch the cost base closely. 
On the corporate front, we secured an additional  1.1m of convertible debt finance, giving us the confidence to continue 
execution of our expansion strategy.  We moved our Amsterdam listing to the Alternext exchange, better suited to a 
company of our size.  Separately, we shared our intent to undertake a corporate restructuring to reduce the accumulated 
deficit on the profit and loss account, and to consolidate shares.  Precise details remain under review and we expect to 
request authorities for these changes at our 2013 annual general meeting.
Sopheon enters 2013 having made substantial progress on financial, operational and corporate fronts.  We will continue our 
efforts in all areas and are excited by the opportunities ahead.
Barry Mence Andy Michuda
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
20 March 2013  
  
         7 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Microsoft is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or in other countries. 