 INTRODUCTION
2010 was a year of signifi cant challenges. The year began 
with very fragile consumer confi dence and revenue fell with 
production days lost to external events such as interruptible 
power supplies and environmental issues, as previously 
announced. In response, the management team has worked 
hard to negotiate with the local authorities for priority to the 
power supplies and modifi ed the public holiday shutdown 
period to reduce turnaround time and improve operational 
effi ciency. However, it is estimated that approximately 40 days 
of production were lost. As a consequence, margins were 
reduced over the year. Despite the production challenges, 
the Group continues to experience signifi cant levels of 
demand and ended the fi nancial year being profi table and 
cash generative. I believe that this is a credible achievement 
in the current economic climate and a testimony to the work 
and commitment of both the management and employees. 
On 27 August 2010, the Company announced that it had 
issued convertible loan notes to secure  3.5 million of 
new term facilities through the injection of  2.93 million 
of new funds and the conversion of shareholders loans of 
 0.53 million into the Group when fully received. These 
funds would allow Sorbic to complete its new factory and 
increase the Group's production capacity to capitalise on 
the anticipated future growth in China. As announced on 
16 December 2010, one of the lenders in respect of the Loan 
Notes is Hermes Holdings Ltd (Hermes ) based in Seoul, 
Korea.  Hermes entered into a legally binding agreement to 
lend US$2.5 million (approximately  1.6 million) under the 
terms of the Loan Notes and is due to pay the Company 
directly. Hermes requires regulatory approval to move the 
funds out of Korea. Representatives of the Company met 
with Hermes on 10 December 2010 and the regulatory 
matters are expected to be resolved in early 2011.
On 25 February 2011, the Company announced that it had 
conditionally raised a further  1.6 million through the issue 
of  0.56 million of convertible loan notes and the issue of 
5,175,000 ordinary shares of 6 pence each at a price of 
20 pence per share. The proceeds of the fundraise are to 
be utilised to fund construction of the Company's new 
production facility in Ulanqab City, Inner Mongolia. Following 
the receipt of these funds, it is the Company's intention to list 
the convertible loan notes on PLUS Markets. 
 
Chairman's Statement
The consolidated results for year ended 30 September 
2010 show turnover of  12.05 million (2009:  14.45 million), 
profi t before tax of  0.60 million (2009:  3.30 million) and 
profi t after tax and exchange differences of  0.8 million 
(2009:  3.5 million). 
Gross margin decreased from 35.0% to 18.5%, while net 
profi t margin decreased from 19.3% to 2.9%, due to the 
increase in unit cost of production caused by the disruption 
outlined above. The effect of the production limitations in 
Linyi has become apparent in FY2010, which reaffi rms the 
compelling reasons behind the Group's decision to locate 
to Inner Mongolia. The availability of rich resources like coal, 
electricity and water at a lower cost compared to the existing 
facilities is expected to improve production effi ciency and 
gross margins.
The Group achieved consolidated earnings per share of 
1.04 pence (2009: 9.87 pence). 
The Group is now very well placed to increase the scale of 
its production. This will broaden Sorbic's competitive position 
and expand its market share in China as part of the strategy 
to build sustainable long-term growth. 
FOOD PRESERVATIVES MARKET
A primary driving force in the global food market is the 
consumer. Income growth, lifestyle changes brought about 
by urbanisation and changing family structures have resulted 
in dietary changes among consumers worldwide. Driven by 
increased purchasing power and the cost of time required for 
preparing food, the demand for higher value and processed 
food products has continued to expand globally.
In the mature markets of high-income countries, the 
processed food market has continued to grow while sales in 
eastern European countries, Latin America and developing 
countries in Asia are undergoing rapid growth. Markets in 
countries like China are at the early stages of transformation 
with multinational retail chains and packaged food products 
now penetrating the rural areas.
 
The US food preservatives market is estimated to be worth 
$7.2 billion annually and growing at 3.5% per annum while 
the Chinese food preservatives markets earned revenues 
Sorbic International Plc  Annual Report 2010
3 of $370.0 million in 2007 and estimates this to reach 
$829.4 million in 2014. [Source: Frost & Sullivan- Chinese 
Food Preservatives Markets]
The scope for long-term growth in the food preservative 
market in China is signifi cant.
DOMESTIC CHINESE MARKET
Domestic sales accounted for less than half of the total sales 
in FY2010. However it is recognised that domestic demand 
may, in part, drive future growth and represents a signifi cant 
opportunity. For example, China currently consumes barely 
2% per head of the manufactured carbonated soft drink 
equivalent of their American counterparts. Similarly, the 
penetration of Western shopping habits in China has scope 
to grow, offering another route for manufactured food and 
beverages to increase market share.
The Chinese food preservatives market is capitalising on 
the success of ready-to-eat foods, which are becoming 
increasingly popular with urbanites leading increasingly busy 
lifestyles. These products function as additives, ensuring the 
safety of a variety of foods.
Rising environmental consciousness and safety concerns are 
driving Chinese consumers to increasingly choose natural 
food additives to synthetic ones. The most frequently used 
organic preservatives, including sorbates, are experiencing 
strong demand from both international and local markets.
The Group's production and quality standards are maintained 
at the highest level, compliant with all key international food 
production standards, which place Sorbic at the forefront of 
suppliers to the major international food manufacturers. 
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 2011
While the beginning of 2010 was dominated by concerns 
over the economy with the impact of the fi nancial crisis, there 
are indications that the global economic outlook may now 
be improving. The Company has the advantage of having 
its operations located at the world's fastest rising economy, 
China. Evidence of China's ascension is widespread. Three 
years ago, China did not have a single bank among the 
world's top 20, measured by market capitalisation; today the 
top three are Chinese. 
Whilst China's growth is expected to gradually slow down 
as the government withdraws its anti-crisis stimulus, the 
expansion is still projected to be 9.6% for 2011, driven 
by domestic demand. The food additive industry in China 
remains highly competitive. Accordingly the Group will look 
to further strengthen its robust market position as one of the 
Chairman's Statement
leading producers in the world with the completion of the 
new lines in Inner Mongolia. 
NEW PRODUCTION LINES - INNER MONGOLIA
Key to driving the Group's growth is its expansion into 
Ulanqab city, Inner Mongolia. The new facility will increase 
the production capacity from 7,500 to 15,000 tonnes per 
annum, with the addition of the two new lines. 
Once they are operating at full capacity of 7.500 tonnes p.a., 
the two new lines will potentially add up to  19 million of 
revenue at current prices. It is anticipated that production 
in the early stages will be more heavily weighted towards 
potassium sorbate as it typically generates a higher gross 
margin. Management expects pricing to remain stable 
in 2011 and operating margins from the new facility are 
anticipated to be signifi cantly higher than the existing plant. 
Construction of the new factory is on schedule and is expected 
to be completed by late summer / early autumn 2011.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK FOR 2011
With the building structure almost completed, the next phase 
of development for the Group will be installation and getting 
the equipment in place for production. With Inner Mongolia 
entering winter and temperatures below zero, exterior 
installation work will be minimal until the Spring. 
Subject to the receipt of the full funds from the convertible 
loan notes, the Company still expects to begin trial production 
at the new factory at the end of summer / autumn 2011. The 
additional production capacity will absorb a greater level of 
working capital and consequently Sorbic will look to secure 
additional bank facilities in 2011. Management will monitor and 
manage the speed at which the facility operates depending 
on the availability of this working capital. The global recovery 
has been underway for some time now, although growth in 
many economies remains weak and uneven. Against such 
a background, the challenge for FY2011 will be to maintain 
price stability and market share, while capitalising on growing 
domestic demands.  
The Board would like to thank the management and the 
employees for their hard work and their continued dedication 
to the Group. On completion of the new facility, Sorbic will be 
well placed to benefi t from further growth in the demand for 
food additives, both internationally and from an increasingly 
important domestic market.
John McLean 
Chairman
4 March 2011
Sorbic International Plc  Annual Report 2010
4