 Sorbic International Plc Annual Report 2012 
 
Chairman's Statement 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The period under review has been challenging, and despite 
the backdrop of ongoing volatility in the market the Group 
has embarked on an aggressive growth strategy, 
committing a significant amount of capital to its expansion 
in Inner Mongolia.  It is this strategy that the Board believes 
has the potential to provide a platform for future growth and 
to generate positive returns for shareholders in the medium 
term. The Board remains focused on further improving the 
Group's operational performance at its Linyi facility and on 
executing its expansion plans in Inner Mongolia.   
 
The Board is pleased that the 13.9% increase in revenue 
for the year to  16.8 million underpins the demand for our 
products, although the small operating profit of  21,699 for 
the period demonstrates the need for the Group to remain 
focused and carefully manage its expenditure during the 
implementation of its growth strategy.  
 
Whilst the Group's existing facility in Linyi continues to 
perform steadily, the gross margin at this site during the 
year is only 8.6%; the Board anticipates a significant 
improvement in Group margins once the new facility is 
completed and operational, where the gross margin is 
expected to be materially higher.  This would produce a 
much improved combined margin which, together with the 
expected tax benefits, would significantly improve the 
overall profitability of the Group. 
 
The plant in Linyi is operating at full capacity and due to 
operational efficiencies has produced an additional 437 
tonnes, representing a 7% efficiency improvement during 
the year; In addition, the selling prices of both of the 
Group's products have improved marginally, although not 
sufficiently to offset price increases (8%) in the Group's 
principal raw material, Crotonalderhyde. 
 
The sales mix is becoming more focussed on both China 
and the US, which together now account for approximately 
77% of turnover. Following closer cooperation with Apac, 
the Group's US distributor, in Spring 2012, the level of US 
business has increased from a running rate of 24% to 31% 
of turnover, which bodes well for the future, especially in 
the context of the additional capacity once the new facility 
in Inner Mongolia is completed. 
 
Included in the Group's balance sheet are approximately 
 8.6 million of assets, which continue to be carried at cost 
on the assumption and expectation that the Company will 
receive reimbursement for its Inner Mongolia facility. 
 
INNER MONGOLIA FACILITY 
 
As previously announced, the Group has been severely 
impacted by the notification to cease construction in order 
to make way for a new passenger railway terminal which 
will be linked to Beijing.  
 
The Company has sought diplomatic support from the 
UK's embassy in China to help in reaching a satisfactory 
settlement while also working closely with our legal 
advisers and the local authorities in Inner Mongolia.   
 
In addition to the overarching understanding that the 
Company will not suffer any financial loss as a result of the 
rezoning process, the following specific principles have 
been established: 
  The Company has been offered land on an adjacent 
site only 0.5 km away from its existing site.  The land 
will be of approximately half the size of the site of the 
current facility (approximately 200 mu (13.33 hectares) 
rather than 400 mu (26.67 hectares)), and the 
Company should be reimbursed the proportion of costs 
already incurred for the land, which equates to 
approximately  800,000. The Board is satisfied that the 
remaining land is sufficient for the Group's 
requirements 
  The Company will receive compensation for the costs 
incurred in terms of construction, relocation, inflation 
and interest   
  In respect of the costs incurred in construction of the 
manufacturing facility, an independent valuer 
(acceptable to both parties) will be appointed to 
appraise the construction cost.  The Company is 
concurrently obtaining third party quotes for the 
rebuilding of the facility, which will be compared 
against the independent valuer's appraisal.   
 
Additionally the local authorities have agreed to offer a 
loan to the Company to enable Sorbic International to 
commence construction as soon as the details of the 
compensation package are finalised.  It is anticipated that 
drawdown of this transitional loan, on which terms are yet 
to be finalised, will enable the Company to commence 
construction of the new factory in H1 2013. Based upon an 
H1 2013 start to the construction work, the Board 
anticipates that the facility should become operational in 
spring 2014.  On the basis of these discussions and the 
Group's future plans, the Board does not believe that any 
impairment has occurred in the carrying value of the 
underlying assets connected with the facility.   
 
Timing is currently not confirmed but the Board expects 
further clarity by the end of Q1 2013.  To aid the Board in 
its negotiations, apart from having direct contact with the 
officials in Ulanqab, the Company has appointed Chinese 
advisers to assist in the resolution.  Whilst the Board 
remains confident of a satisfactory final outcome for the 
Company, it should be noted that significant costs are 
currently being incurred and expensed in the pursuit of a 
resolution.   
 
The Board is pleased that the authorities have been 
transparent and balanced throughout the negotiations and 
looks forward to the successful conclusion of the 
discussions.   
 
The Group has already invested  4.8 million in equipment, 
which will be commissioned once construction of the new 
facility is completed.  
 
LOAN NOTES 
 
The Group has  4.1 million at bank in China, and this cash 
position is more than adequate for local working capital 
purposes for the existing operations. However the 
Company will require further funds, both for completing the 
Inner Mongolia facility and meeting parent company costs 
outside China.  
 
 
  Sorbic International Plc Annual Report 2012 
 
 
On 26 March 2013 the Company announced that it 
proposes, conditional upon admission and in part on 
shareholder approval, to raise approximately  0.7 million 
(before expenses) through the issue of  125,000 of 
convertible loan notes (the New A Loan Notes ) and 
8,331,429 new ordinary shares of 6 pence each, to be 
issued at 7 pence each. 
 
The required majority of holders of A and B loan notes have 
agreed to amend the terms of the loan note instruments to 
which such loan notes relate such that the redemption date 
is now 31 August 2014. The New A Loan Notes will be 
issued subject to the terms of the A loan note instrument 
and the New A Loan Notes will have the same terms as the 
A and B Loan Notes currently in issue.  
 
Key terms of New A Loan Notes (and the revised A and B 
Notes) are: 
 
  Conversion price is set at price of 9 pence; 
  Interest remains at 10% p.a. compounded semi-annually 
and rolled up to redemption; 
  Interest may, at the election of the loan note holders, be  
paid through the issue of new ordinary shares; 
  Redemption premium equal to 1.5% per month, from  
date of new  loan note instrument, if the Company  
chooses to redeem early; and 
  Redemption date of 31 August 2014. 
 
The holders of the A and B loan notes are entitled to a fee 
of approximately  243,000, being 10% of the outstanding A 
and B loan notes, as consideration for their agreeing to the 
new terms and extended redemption date. This fee is 
proposed to be settled by the issue of 3,482,858 New 
Ordinary Shares.  
 
The New A Loan Notes will be issued following shareholder 
approval at the forthcoming AGM. 
 
 
BOARD CHANGES 
 
On 21 November 2012, the Company announced that 
Nicholas Smith has decided to step down as a Non-
Executive Director of the Board with effect from 1 January 
2013, due to personal and other commitments.  However, I 
am pleased to confirm that Nick will remain available to the 
Board to consult on matters going forward if required.  
Following Nick's departure, John Mclean has joined the 
Board's renumeration committee. The Board is actively 
seeking another Non-Executive Director to bring additional 
skills to the Board and will update the market in due course.   
 
 
 
GOING CONCERN 
 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have sufficient resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the Board believes it is appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis in the preparation of the financial 
statements. 
 
Whether the Company and the Group have sufficient 
resources to continue in operational existence for the future 
will ultimately be dependent on the successful conclusion of 
the Inner Mongolia compensation negotiation.  Irrespective 
of the outcomes achieved, the Company will need to 
transfer funds out of China or continue raise additional 
capital to meet ongoing costs of the Company.  Without 
continual additional funding or a transfer of monies from 
China, Sorbic International plc will not in the future have 
sufficient resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.   
 
 
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 2013 
 
China's reported economic growth was 7.8%(Source: 
Xinhua) in 2012 with forecast growth for 2013 and 2014 of 
8.5% and 8.9% respectively (Source: OECD). Growth in 
Asia is likely to remain strong given falling inflation, healthy 
government balance sheets and the availability of multiple 
policy tools to boost growth and the continued domestic 
demand supporting economic activity in the region. 
 
On the immediate economic front, inflationary pressures 
have eased substantially, particularly in China, and central 
banks across the region have cut their benchmark rates of 
interest to stimulate growth. This is likely to be beneficial to 
the Company's sales in FY2013. 
 
In the face of these challenging markets, the Group has 
increased focus on its larger and more established clients 
with clearer long-term visibility of earnings. 
 
 
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK FOR 2013 
 
The Board will continue to focus on improving operational 
efficiencies at its Linyi facility, as well as concluding its 
negotiations and commencing construction at the new Inner 
Mongolia site, which is expected to underpin future growth.  
Despite the market volatility, demand for the products 
remains robust and the Board has confidence in its stated 
strategy for medium and long-term growth.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 