 Letter from the Chairman
David Wallis, BSc Econ
Non-Executive Chairman
Dear Shareholder
The 2007/08 financial year has been seminal in the development of
your Company. Significant underlying forward momentum has been
delivered in all the key financial measures by which we assess the
progress of the business. 
We have achieved increased scale through both strong organic
growth and acquisition, and good progress has been made in the
development of our infrastructure, particularly in the areas of IT
capability and the training and development of our team at all levels. 
Our Performance
I have summarised our financial performance below. There has been
strong growth in revenues, underlying earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, integration costs and amortisation, and pre-tax profits,
while as anticipated, the Hewden Tools acquisition outlined below
had a dilutive effect on operating margin and earnings per share,
albeit this will be temporary as significant synergy benefits are
already beginning to flow. As a result of this strong financial
performance, your Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.4 pence
per share making a total for the year of 19.8 pence per share, an
increase of 16.5% over 2007, ahead of the growth in earnings on
the increased share capital, following the Placing in June 2007.
2008 2007 % Change
Revenues  465.5m  335.5m 38.7%
EBITDA*  131.6m  100.3m 31.2%
Profit before tax*  48.1m  40.5m 18.8%
Group operating margin* 13.7% 14.9% (1.2)ppts
Basic earnings per share 47.89p 58.74p (18.5)%
Earnings per share* 73.19p 65.00p 12.6%
Return on capital (operating)* 15.2% 16.9% (1.7)ppts
Total equity  240.1m  171.1m 40.3%
* Pre-amortisation and exceptional integration costs
I would like to extend the thanks of both the Board and shareholders
to all members of the Speedy team, now over 5,000 strong, for their
outstanding efforts and achievements in what has been a very
demanding year.
Our Strategy
Our commercial strategy remains one of growth. We aim to be
number one or two in the market segments in which we operate,
serving primarily the larger construction and industrial companies
and their supply chain. These companies require tools and
equipment for longer periods of time and have more complex needs.
Our financial strategy is to maintain debt and shareholders' funds
broadly in line with one another, whilst ensuring that interest
payments are well covered by operating profit. This enables us to
continue to invest in new equipment, totalling  104m in the last
financial year, and to maintain the youngest fleet in the hire industry,
with an average age of 2.4 years. 
In executing our overall strategy, we have made three significant
acquisitions in the course of the year. In August 2007 we completed
the acquisition of Hewden Tools at a cost of  115m and Waterford
Hire Services at a maximum cost of  6.5m. In January 2008 we
announced the acquisition of Amec Logistics and Support Services
for  12.5m. 
15110 04/06/2008 Proof 5
20 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
15110
15110SPEEDYHI:15110SPEEDYHI  13/6/08  10:32  Page 20 The acquisition of Hewden Tools has all but completed the national
footprint for tool hire on mainland Britain, giving us a total of 357 tool
hire depots. The strategic logic of this transformational deal is to
consolidate your Company as the clear UK market leader. The
integration of this business is now finalised. Depots, vans and
equipment were rebranded and a single product catalogue
introduced in January 2008. In addition, the new IT system was
rolled out throughout Speedy Tools and the former Hewden depots
by the end of April 2008. The exceptional costs associated with the
integration of Hewden have remained within budget and we are very
confident that the synergies predicted at the time of acquisition will
all be delivered in the short term and sustained over the coming
years. This outcome is a result of meticulous planning and execution,
excellent communications and the tremendous teamwork displayed
by those people joining us from Hewden.
Waterford Hire, albeit on a different scale, is important in building our
brand and business in the Republic of Ireland. T ogether with additional
greenfield openings, this will offer a springboard for future development
there, as well as providing valuable lessons in running a business with a
different geography, currency, culture and customer base. 
The acquisition of Amec Logistics and Support Services enabled us to
move into new industrial and infrastructure areas with the provision of
a four year exclusive supply agreement and into a wider range of
equipment for the Amec Group on Preferred Supplier basis. This
business is a single point of supply for tools, lifting equipment,
accommodation units and survey equipment for Amec and other
significant customers. This is a further example of similar such deals
concluded over the last few years which together provide two
significant positives. Firstly, we have secured contracted revenues in
excess of  250m over the next five years with key customers.
Secondly, we have found that actual revenues generated from these
accounts almost always exceed contracted revenues, as customers
come to rely on the benefits of Speedy' s expertise and tailored service.
We announced on 27 May 2008 that Speedy has strengthened its
relationship with Carillion plc by entering into a new five year
Strategic Partnering Agreement, which reinforces Speedy's position
as Carillion's preferred supplier of its full range of products and
services. As part of the Agreement, Speedy has acquired the
accommodation business of Carillion Asset Management Limited.
The achievement of scale, through organic growth and acquisitions, a
national footprint and the ability to service completely new markets
now enables us to advance Speedy Hire' s business model. The theme
of this year's Annual Report is extending a trusted brand  and that is
exactly how we are evolving our strategy. We will continue to supply all
the basics of straightforward hire, but build on this foundation with
added value services. We are already starting to see longer term
arrangements for hire, technical advice, training, particularly on Health
and Safety issues and fuel management, as we endeavour to become
an indispensible part of our customers' needs.
Another key opportunity for growth is the continued move towards
outsourcing by construction and industrial groups which moves the
responsibility for ownership, maintenance, testing, and delivery to
businesses such as Speedy. In addition, the legislative environment
continues to drive demand for product expertise, technical advice,
training and environmental responsibility. We see these as great
opportunities to become not just a hirer, but a broader service
provider to our customers.
Outlook 
The consensus of forecasts for economic growth in the UK over the
next year or two remains marginally positive and prospects for the
majority of our customers remain encouraging. T wo-thirds of our
revenues derive from construction and related activities. The
contraction in housebuilding which constitutes less than 5% of our
revenues, and in speculative commercial development, is expected to
be more than counterbalanced by growth in infrastructure spending
on energy, utilities, road and rail, hospitals, schools, social housing and
the Olympics. The other third of our revenue comes from non-
construction activities in the industrial sector, which is becoming
increasingly important to us. Our share of these markets is expected to
grow strongly. Our national capability is essential in being able to
service both national contractors and large industrial groups.
Financially, our debt levels remain comfortable, being well supported
by strong cash generation and with over four years to run on our
 325m bank facility, we have ample headroom to finance the current
needs of the business. 
We are confident of delivering further growth over the next financial
year in line with our expectations. Our key customers, the UK' s largest
construction and industrial groups, with whom we continue to develop
even stronger relationships as we take responsibility for their tool,
equipment and service needs, continue to report full order books. 
Further out is more difficult to predict, but we monitor lead indicators
very carefully and the flexibility of our business model gives us some
protection against any further adverse developments in the global
economic situation. We have ensured that we have flexibility with
regards to forward capital commitments by structuring our supply
chain so that the cycle for ordering tools and equipment from our
suppliers is extremely short. In the event of a downturn in our end
markets, we will slow investment and thereby generate more cash. 
Whatever the economic circumstances, there are always opportunities
to exploit and Speedy Hire has both the culture and now the scale to
take advantage of these. Your Company is in great shape and well
placed to come through the period ahead, even stronger.
If you have any comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, 
any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you,
either by writing to me at Chase House, Haydock, or by email at
david.wallis@speedyhire.plc.uk
Yours sincerely,
David Wallis
Chairman
27 May 2008
15110 04/06/2008 Proof 5
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
15110SPEEDYHI:15110SPEEDYHI  13/6/08  10:32  Page 21