 The past year has been one of dramatic change for your company, with both significant acquisition activity
and the major subsequent re-organisation of the newspaper business.
Financial review
In the year to 31 July 2008, the Group produced an increase in pre-exceptional pre-tax profits of 7% to  6m
(2007:  5.5m), with underlying earnings per share of 5.72p (2007: 9.71p) on the increased average share capital.
The reported figures include the results of Sport Newspapers for just under 11 months, following its
acquisition by the Group in September 2007. Also included are results for Flip Media for two months
following its acquisition in June 2008. As a result, Group turnover for the full year rose by 158% to  29.4m
(2007:  11.4m), with operating margins of 21.9% (2007: 49.1%).
During the year, the Group paid an interim dividend of 2p per share. Given the current financial situation,
the Board is of the opinion that the historic policy of paying 80% of earnings as dividend is no longer
appropriate, therefore we will not be paying a final dividend this year. 
Year end
The directors believe that it is in the best interests of the business to move its financial year-end from 31
July to 31 December.  For 2008/09 this would see the year-end extended to a seventeen-month period to
31 December 2009. This will bring our accounting period more in line with the operational flow of the
business, and increase visibility for the budgeting and forecasting process.
Operating review
In the Autumn of 2007 the original Interactive World business (now trading as Netcollex) acquired the entire
issued share capital of Sport Newspapers Limited for aggregate consideration of  50,000,000, in the form
of  39,700,000 in cash, a deferred payment of  5,000,000 paid in December 2007, the issue to the vendors
of  5,000,000 of loan notes and the payment of  300,000 into a joint retention account pending the
determination of the net current assets of Sport Newspapers. Funds amounting to  43,700,000 were raised
by way of a placing of an additional 58,266,667 ordinary shares in the Company at 75 pence per share.
The newspaper was subsequently subject to a major reappraisal, including major cost reductions, and was
effectively re-launched in April 2008.
A newspaper is a product that is baked fresh  each day and, although there have been setbacks on the
way, the Board is encouraged that the recipe we now have is beginning to gain acceptance and credibility
in the market. We have been particularly encouraged by the agreement with Tesco in September to start
trialling the paper in a number of their stores, building on successes with various retailers earlier in the
year, and this opens up the possibility of significantly increasing the availability of the paper through
multiple retail channels. We are currently retailing in c. 39,000 outlets compared to c. 37,000 at the time
of acquisition. The newspaper has a very particular niche and we are confident that we can develop the
product and grow the circulation from current levels with the team that are now in place.
Utilising the cross-selling opportunities that we have across the Group in both magazines and the digital
business, and opportunities to achieve further efficiencies in production and distribution, we are confident
that we can increase profitability. The operational gearing of the newspaper business remains very high,
and a 10,000 increase/decrease in daily circulation impacts profitability by around  2m on an annual basis.
Average weekday sales are currently around 75,000 copies, approximately 30% lower than at the time of
Chairman's statement
Sport Media Group plc Annual Report 2008  3
SPORT MEDIA GROUP PLC acquisition, but while this has obviously adversely impacted revenues, we have reduced the cost base of the
newspaper significantly (by c.  1.6m annually) and expect that any revenue increases will largely flow
through to profit. 
The soft launch of the newspaper's website in November provides the opportunity to explore an increased
amount of online activity under the Sport brand name and, although in its infancy, a number of projects are
currently underway to develop this revenue stream and provide support to the Group's other web offerings.
Netcollex's performance was affected by both internal and external factors, predominantly the fall in
newspaper circulations (a key channel for the recruitment of new users), uncertainty surrounding
acquisition and usage of  celebrity' content following a number of high profile court cases this year, and of
course the general economic situation. We have reviewed the cost base of the business and made some
savings, however the business only employs 12 people, and the need to keep the content quality high
means that we need to constantly invest in new libraries and product.
The introduction of Lock and Pay DVDs, distributed through the newspaper and various magazine, retail and
mail order channels has proved a great success and trading within the video-on-demand arm of the
business remains steady.
Improvements in our technology platform are enabling Netcollex to trial new SMS marketing techniques
which are expected to significantly reduce expenditure in this area while maximising the extensive user
databases that the business owns. We are confident that, through distribution of both our own content,
and greater leverage of the various technological platforms with content partners, this area of business
offers significant growth potential.
In April we acquired the publisher of Front magazine, FlipMedia, which has enhanced our publishing
portfolio with a mainstream men's lifestyle title that is currently experiencing sales growth in an otherwise
lacklustre market (most recently posting over 41,000 sales for its October issue). Administrational
efficiencies have already been made in this business and a number of revenue synergies are being
developed across editorial content, mobile and the web with the other Group companies. 
FlipMedia's recent joint venture with Myspace, which will see Front content distributed to Myspace's 7
million UK users underlines the strength and creativity of the team behind the title, their strong
understanding of their market and makes it a growing and profitable addition to the Group.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
During 2007 the Group acquired the Sport Newspapers group of companies.  Prior to acquisition, sales of
the Sport newspapers had been falling steadily, there had been a gradual but sustained erosion in the
number of retail outlets stocking the titles, content and staffing costs were too high, the products were
almost entirely reliant on advertising revenue from the adult industry and the editorial tone and content of
the titles was inconsistent and lacking direction.
As referred to above, average weekday sales of the Sport are currently around 30% lower than at the time
of acquisition. Although classified advertising revenues have shown a small increase year on year, the
general tabloid market is extremely challenging and display advertising revenues are down by almost half,
year on year and, as set out elsewhere, it is clear that the Sport Newspapers business will need to maintain
its policy of cost cutting to ensure a successful year and that the achievement of significant turn round in
Chairman's statement
4 Annual Report 2008 Sport Media Group plc
SPORT MEDIA GROUP PLC Sport Media Group plc Annual Report 2008  5
SPORT MEDIA GROUP PLC
the business is likely to take longer than planned at the time of the acquisition.  Although a number of
initiatives are currently underway to mitigate against this reduction in revenues, the directors have
considered the level of intangible assets carried in the Group's balance sheet at 31 July 2008 and carried
out a particularly challenging impairment review process.  As a result, the directors have decided to
recognise an impairment charge of  18.4 million in the goodwill on the acquisition of Sport Newspapers.
This represents a write down of approximately one third of the cost of acquisition. 
The directors have also carried out a thorough review of the Group's other acquired intangible assets,
principally software and database licences and rights, photographic and film content rights and marketing
access rights, and concluded that certain of those intangible assets had become impaired.  As a result the
Group incurred a write down of  2.3 million.
Total charges in relation to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets of  20.7 million have
resulted in a substantial pre-tax loss for the Group, which has a distorting effect on the financial
statements.  However, the directors consider these write downs to be an appropriate reflection of the
current trading position of Sport Newspapers business and the unprecedented circumstances in which
businesses have been operating in 2008.  By taking this decisive action in relation to the carrying value of
Group intangible assets the directors consider that the Group's balance sheet reflects a sustainable level of
intangible assets going forward. 
Basis of preparation and current banking situation
As announced on 7 January 2009, on 6 January 2009 the Group was notified by its bankers that Sport
Media Group plc was in breach of one of its banking covenants. At the date of this annual report
agreement has not been reached on revised facility terms. However, revised facility terms continue to be
negotiated and, in the interim, the bank has informed the Board that the Group will be provided with a two
month extension to the current facility, expiring on 6 March 2009. The Board believes that the going
concern basis of preparation is appropriate because the Company is seeking to remedy the breach through
further discussions with the existing finance providers and is also exploring a number of alternative
financing sources and structures and that a refinancing solution will be reached within the extension
period expiring on 6 March 2009.
Conclusion 
Simon Hume-Kendall, who was Chairman of the Group until August 2008, has now announced his
resignation from the Board, due to increasing external commitments. I would like to thank Simon for his
considerable contributions to the Group.
With a significantly broader publishing base, both in print and digital, through the past year the Group has
strengthened its capabilities as a multi-channel distributor of content and, despite difficult trading
conditions, expects to build on this into 2009 and beyond. The Board remains optimistic about the
underlying prospects for the Group.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the employees of Sport Media Group for their
enthusiasm and commitment through this challenging trading period.
David Bailey
Chairman
28 January 2009
Chairman's statement