 4 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report Atlantic Global's results for the year ended 31 December 2009. In the
second half of the year, the Group returned to profitability, maintained its investment in Research
and Development and launched the new Organisation Planning Module and the Client Contract
and Billing Management functionality.
Results
In the second half of the year, Atlantic Global returned to profit, with profits before taxation of
 18,000 compared with a loss of  148,000 in the first half of 2009. This improvement is in line
with the Board's expectations as expressed in the September 2009 interim results statement and
December 2009 trading update. The Group produced losses before taxation for the twelve
month period to 31 December 2009 of  130,000 (2008 profit:  401,000) while turnover was
 1,350,000 (2008:  2,176,000). This result was achieved despite the Group increasing its
investment in Research and Development as well as operating in the difficult economic climate.
The loss per share was 0.57 pence (2008 profit per share: 1.40 pence).
Atlantic Global continued to invest in and develop its products throughout 2009, carrying out the
highest level of product development in the Group's history, both in terms of productivity and
cost,  403,000 (2008:  386,000). Despite this investment, the Group broadly maintained its net
cash balance for the period of  2,032,000 (2008:  2,159,000).
New Clients
The Group is pleased to announce that it secured an increasing number of blue-chip OnDemand
customers throughout the year. These new customers include RCUK Shared Service Centre and
further departments within GlaxoSmithKline Plc. The Group also gained new Project Portfolio
Management (PPM) software customers, including ADP Dealer Services, Admiral Insurance,
Sindicatum and Carbon Capital. We made new sales to existing customers XChanging,
GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer and EuroDirect Database Marketing.
Recurring Income
The Group's level of recurring support and maintenance income for 2009 was  668,000 (2008:
 766,000), a drop year-on-year as some clients reduced their numbers of supported licences; no
major client terminated support, however. Support revenue was also lower as Atlantic Global
upgraded existing clients to the SaaS model, securing extra revenue for the Group in the
process. The OnDemand contracts closed during the period were  86,000, with  44,000 of
these contracts being accounted for and delivered during 2010. This remains a solid base for the
Group, especially given the positive indication of monthly revenue intake from the SaaS contacts.
Operating Review
Our stated aim for 2009 was to finalise the next generation of the Group's products, so that in
2010 we could sell these products into the market. 2009 saw the launch of the new OnDemand/
SaaS service which is a cost effective, easy-to-use business management software solution Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
designed to address the Project Portfolio Management (PPM), Professional Services Automation
(PSA) and the Financial & Resource Forecasting markets.
The Group is very pleased with the quality and functional range of the software and the range of
deployment options developed throughout 2009. The new OnDemand service represents a
significant investment which has been ongoing since March 2006. It provides Atlantic Global and
its customers with the following benefits:
  Deployment - the OnDemand product provides a flexible range of deployment options ranging
from
  On-Premise: Traditional Client Installation
  Hosted: Dedicated Customer Installation on Atlantic Global's dedicated outsourced
infrastructure or
  OnDemand: All customers share the same Atlantic Global Software as a Service (SaaS)
outsourced infrastructure.
  Wider Geographic Coverage - the OnDemand product has completed Multi-Currency and
Multi-Lingual capability with English (UK), English (US) and French provided as standard.
Additional languages are available on request, as demanded by customers.
Routes to Market
Atlantic Global continues to develop its routes to market through a mixture of direct and indirect
selling organisations. We believe that the new functionality and the ease of deployment has made
it easier for the Group to partner with other organisations as this has removed the need for
partners to have the expert technical skills to install the product. The Group has negotiated an
active sales partnership agreement and are actively exploring several further partner
opportunities. Atlantic Global is also now able to penetrate the small user market almost remotely,
aiming at sub 100 users which in current market conditions could be an attractive market to us,
as the use of SaaS applications increases apace.
Sales and Marketing
The Group has made significant progress in this area with the launch of its new website,
www.atlantic-global.com.
The new website includes a new resource centre (http://www.atlantic-ec.com/resources.html)
where customers can register to access online video tutorials and download the latest product
literature, product updates and case studies.
In addition, the new Live Demo  area has been launched (http://www.atlantic-ec.com/
register_for_demo). This enables prospective customers to easily register and use the product
through the use of a demonstration database. When a user logs into the website, they can 6 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
choose to simulate a range of configurations which have been created to address the three key
markets as described above. We continually analyse the traffic on the website and in the Live
Demo  database which provides a valuable source of sales leads.
This new approach allows for potential customers to trial with the system prior to receiving a
demonstration from the Group. These prospective customers can continue to use the system
afterwards to help resolve any queries that they may have.
This has the advantage of giving customers greater access to our solution and lowers the
administration and sales effort dealing with early stage enquiries. This provides a valuable means
of qualifying sales leads as it often means that prospective customers who are in contact with the
Group after having had a high level of exposure to our solutions should be further down their
sales cycle.
The Live Demo  is a key selling tool which means that Atlantic Global can now effectively sell its
solution worldwide 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The Live Demo  area also provides
a useful platform for existing customers to explore new features.
Repurchase of Company Shares
For a number of years, Atlantic Global has maintained relatively high cash levels reflecting the
cash generative nature of the business. The return on this surplus cash is increasingly modest
and the Directors believe that this cash could be better used by continuing to repurchase some
of the Company's shares for cancellation. The Directors believe this will enhance shareholder
value and accordingly, we will seek re-approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting from
shareholders to repurchase up to 10% of the Company's outstanding share capital from time to
time. During 2009, the Company repurchased 313,000 shares at a cost of just over  51,000.
Current Trading
In the year to date, trading is in line with the Board's expectations. Overall, market conditions
remain challenging but feedback received from existing and new customers, partners and
potential partners regarding the latest product launches gives the Board confidence that the
current year will show an improvement on 2009.
The Board is satisfied with the pipeline of new business prospects as well as the possibilities of
new partnership opportunities. The Group is pleased to report that it has already secured
approximately 63% of its budgeted 2010 support revenue.
Annual General Meeting
We shall be holding our AGM on 6 May 2010 at the Group's Head Office at Woodland Park,
Bradford Road, Chain Bar, Cleckheaton, West Yorkshire, BD19 6BW.
The Board extends the invitation to all shareholders in the hope that as many as possible attend. Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
www.atlantic-global.com
Chairman's Statement
continued
Dividend
The Directors are not proposing a full year dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009,
(2008: 0.4 pence per share). The Directors will return to their progressive dividend policy once
there is a return to profitability.
People
We recognise the contribution, commitment and enthusiasm made by all Group employees
during 2009 which was a difficult year and which involved a significant effort to further develop
Atlantic Global's products and identify routes to market.
Adrian Bradshaw
Chairman
23 March 2010