 5 Aukett Fitzroy Robinson Group Plc annual report and accounts 2006
This has been a good year for Aukett Fitzroy Robinson reflecting the progress made in all areas of the business.
In the interim report we advised that the profit for the financial year would be weighted towards the second half and this
has proved to be the case, with a reported profit before tax of  0.79m (2005:  0.16m) for the full year.
With the integration process now complete, our attention has turned towards the repositioning of the Group in its key
markets, both within the UK and elsewhere in Europe. Any shortcomings in continuing operations have been addressed
through more intensive management. This strategy is proceeding well and I expect the cumulative benefits to show
through in the forthcoming period.
The Board believe that the Group is well placed to achieve the medium term objective of doubling turnover in the five
years ending 2010, with growth targets underpinned by detailed business plans.
Those shareholders who have remained with us over the last few years should, I believe, now start to see a better return
on their investment through both capital growth in the share price and an anticipated return to a dividend payment policy
once the balance sheet structure allows.
In this context I can report an improved market in our shares following both our move to AIM in April 2006 and a more
proactive approach in our corporate public relations activities.
Much has been achieved during the past year and I would like to thank the Board and all of our colleagues for their efforts,
which, as always, are very much appreciated.
Gerry Deighton
Chairman
16 February 2007
Chairman's
statement
For the year ended 
30 September 2006 Directors'
report:
Chief Executive
Officer's report
For the year ended 
30 September 2006
6 Aukett Fitzroy Robinson Group Plc annual report and accounts 2006
Introduction
The past twelve months have seen the Group make significant progress towards restoring its financial and market position.
There has been much to celebrate both in terms of rising profitability and reduction in net debt, combined with a plethora
of contract gains and a number of architectural awards.
Financial Overview
The Group achieved a profit before tax of  0.79m (2005:  0.16m) on turnover of  16.28m (2005:  12.61m).
I commented in the last Annual Report about the implementation of a more consistent contract appointment and
invoicing regime along with a more focused debtor recovery programme. This has demonstrably borne fruit with the
Group net borrowings position improving in advance of profit and reducing by  1.20m to  0.18m.
Review of operations
The UK market for commercial architectural services is buoyant with strong demand in most sectors in which we
operate. This has led to an industry wide tightening of resource available in the market.
We believe that we are winning more than our share of available project opportunities and, in certain areas, building up
a more dominant market position. We continue to closely monitor our staffing requirements and reallocate staff
according to project and sector needs. This flexibility, together with the strength of the brand for attracting talented staff,
has ensured that we have been able to successfully manage our resourcing commitments as our income has grown.
Our Commercial Office and Hotel sector groups have shown particularly strong performance, reflecting the specific skills
that we offer clients. Commercial Offices have won a number of significant contracts from major developers, which has
secured their workload for the next few years. Likewise, the Hotels team has secured a number of commissions for new
hotels from existing high-profile hotel operators and several one-off development opportunities at the top end of the
market. In order to consolidate our position in the luxury hotel market, we have recently strengthened our team at
director level, having taken on a key individual from one of our main competitors.
Our Transport and Retail teams have widened their client contacts and are, accordingly, starting to build their teams to
service secured work. We believe that both of these sectors have the potential to grow over the next financial period.
Executive Architecture services (trading under the name Veretec) has started to make significant progress in its
development as a unique business offering and forms an important strand in our future growth strategy. It now works
with a number of the major UK contractors within a specialised part of the architectural services market to take outline
building plans and develop them into specialised drawings that the contractor can use.
During the year we have opened a new office in Southampton to focus upon residential and mixed-use schemes which
are continuing to be developed along the South coast. This has been positively received by our clients and the office has
received a number of enquiries which are now converting into larger projects. Likewise, our Bristol office is performing
strongly; having secured not only a major scheme for a prestigious office development in the St Mary le Port area of
Bristol but also a partial redevelopment of Dorchester Town Centre and a new HQ building in central Bristol.
In our overseas markets, Russia continues to outperform our expectations. We now have eight signed contracts in
progress with a combined contract value of approximately $700m upon which we should earn stage fees of $6m over
the next few years. These projects cover circa 4.3m sqft of commercial development space. The Czech operation
performed well in a competitive market and has reacted positively to the country's recent growth in GDP and continues
to receive strong enquiries. Poland has suffered from a shortage of commercial office opportunities but continues to be
of strategic importance to the Group. We intend to combine the management and design skills of these three offices to
improve the skill set we can offer our clients in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe. Directors'
report:
Chief Executive
Officer's report
For the year ended 
30 September 2006
7 Aukett Fitzroy Robinson Group Plc annual report and accounts 2006
Berlin had a difficult year due to local economic factors. However, Frankfurt has benefited from a successful period of
fit-out contracts, recording its best result to date. We disposed of our Rotterdam subsidiary in December 2005 by selling
our interest to our local partner.
During the year we achieved formal recognition of our design capability by winning the 2005 British Council for Offices
( BCO') National and Regional Awards for National Air Traffic Services at Southampton and a 2005 BCO Regional Award
for South Cambridgeshire District Council's new offices at Cambourne. In addition, the Grove Hotel in Hertfordshire
won an award from Conde Nast Traveller for the 2005 Best UK Spa Retreat.
We have launched a knowledge-based initiative to bring a fresh approach to a range of topical subjects facing our clients
and disseminate some of the experience that we have built up. This started with a seminar to interested parties on
sustainable development, focusing on our hugely successful design for an ecological warehouse in Norfolk for Adnams
brewers. This project is one of only 22 industrial projects in the UK to achieve a BREEAM (Building Research
Establishment Environmental Assessment Method)  Excellent' rating and brings our total buildings with such a rating to
twelve. We have followed this up with  ahead of time', a research initiative into development opportunities in the area
between the City and the new Olympic development site which will benefit from new infrastructure projects. Further
details of both matters are on our website and at the back of this annual report.
Corporate Strategy
In last year's report I set out the Group's medium term objective of doubling its turnover to  25m within five years.
Having now had time to properly assess the growth potential for our various business sectors and overseas operations,
we believe that this is achievable though organic growth and strategic development of our existing operations with a
minimum of merger and acquisition activity.
However, the market for architectural services is becoming more concentrated as projects become larger and the ability
to resource and deliver major schemes is seen as an underlying necessity, thereby requiring architectural practices to be
of a certain scale. As such, we see numerous opportunities to sustainably extend our business through a series of strategic
mergers and acquisitions. These will focus not only on areas of existing expertise but, more importantly, will target
operations that will either enable the business to achieve an improved geographical spread or to expand into an allied
key growth market. A long list of potential opportunities is being compiled and appropriate resources will be made
available to develop the more promising candidates.
Finally, our move to AIM has been a success and, with the rising fortunes of the Group, our share price has responded
accordingly, increasing from a low of 2.38p in January 2006 to a high of 17.875p on 9 January 2007.
Summary
I see the future of the Group as extremely encouraging with opportunities for further improvements in operating
efficiency through the off-shoring of work to our European network, development of income growth through the winning
of larger project commissions and enhanced shareholder value through a more active merger and acquisitions
programme. Over the next twelve months, we expect the Group to improve upon its current year's performance.
All of this, of course, is only achieved with our Unique Selling Point - the staff - whose dedication, skill and commitment
make all of this possible.
Nicholas Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
16 February 2007 The Waldorf Hilton,
London WC2
National Air Traffic Services,
Southampton
: Interiors Park Inn, Heathrow
Norwich Union: Project Horizon,
Norwich
Mellon Financial Centre,
London EC4
Law Firm, Frankfurt
Athenee Palace Hotel,
Djerba,Tunisia
Hotel de Rome, Berlin
Norwich Union:
Project Horizon, Norwich