 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR AND GREAT OPTIMISM FOR 2006
It is my pleasure, once again, to report further progress and
considerable achievements by your Company in 2005. This growth
has continued into 2006. In late February, a major milestone was
achieved by Sterling when first oil was produced on time from the
Chinguetti oil field offshore Mauritania. 
The first Sterling cargo was lifted in early April 2006.
Gross production to the end of March averaged
59,000 bpd and is expected to increase towards 
the operator's peak rate of 75,000 bpd sometime 
in the second half of 2006. Sterling has an economic
interest in the field of approximately 8% plus a
production-based royalty. Taken together, these
interests will yield substantial cash flow and 
mark a step-change in Sterling's development 
as a significant international explorer and 
producer of oil and gas.
4
In 2005, revenues from the sale of oil and gas
increased by 19% from  11.5 million to  13.6 million.
Pre-tax earnings rose 47% to  6.1 million (2004:  4.2
million) before the one-off cost of  1.2 million for the
Perth office closure. Like all other Gulf of Mexico
producers, Sterling was affected by possibly the
worst hurricane season in living memory, which
caused widespread damage to communities in the
southern US states and severe disruption to the oil
and gas industry. Although there was minimal
physical damage to our facilities, numerous third
party pipelines were shut in for safety reasons and
our production was restricted. I am pleased to say
that the majority of our production was resumed
quickly and is now fully restored. 5
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
The commencement of production from our major
investment in Mauritania is expected to lead to a
very substantial increase in Sterling's financial and
operational performance in 2006.
With the closure of the Perth office in January 2006,
Sterling has consolidated its African management
activity in the UK. Cost and time savings are 
being realised. There are dedicated teams for
Mauritania, new ventures and exploration activities
now in place, with relevant support. After the hectic
pace of growth in recent years, the asset portfolio
has been streamlined.
On the exploration front, highlights included:
  A successful farm-out of our offshore Madagascar
licences to Exxon-Mobil, retaining a 30% interest
and remaining operator. Sterling is carried through
a substantial programme of seismic and other
work, plus the drilling of up to four exploration
wells. The work programme has already been
accelerated with sea bottom piston-coring
completed and the acquisition of approximately
4,000 km of 2-D seismic is now underway. 
  Success with three carried wells offshore
Mauritania, being;
a. an appraisal well on the 300+ million 
bbl gross Tiof (Oualata) field; 
b. an appraisal well on the 50 million bbl gross 
Tevet field; 
c. a discovery well on the new 30 million 
bbl gross Labeidna field. 
  Useful local and regional information was garnered
from the offshore Gabon well, on which we were
largely carried. We have been awarded an interest
adjacent to our existing licences. Work continues to
firm-up new prospects for drilling in late 2006/7.
  Farmout on Dome Flore heavy oil interests 
was completed, with Sterling keeping a 30% 
carried interest through certain studies and
appraisal activities.
  The US activity was hampered by the severe
weather and its effects, as well as exceptionally
difficult and volatile equipment and energy pricing
markets. Highlights were the Galveston Bay 251-5
and Gryphon C-3 wells, successfully drilled in early
2006 and now onstream, increasing to a combined
projected net rate of approximately 2.2 mmcfged.
Your Company, with its growing cash flow from its
major investment programme over the last 18
months, is looking to increase its exposure to 
high impact  exploration activity. It is focused on
adding further material exploration opportunities to
its portfolio, together with development and
production activities. As a first and important step,
Sterling has recently signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU ) with the Oil, Gas and
Petrochemical Establishment (OGE ) of the
Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq giving
exclusive rights to commence geological studies 
and to negotiate a Production Sharing Contract
(PSC ) for an exploration block. Sterling sees this as
a vastly under-explored region with great potential. 6
FINANCIALS IMPROVE AGAIN
The year 2005 was a year marked by ongoing
achievement. Pre-tax profit rose 20% to a record 
 5.0 million and cash inflow from operations 
(before the closure cost noted above and working
capital movements), was up 13% at  8.8 million. 
During a period of heavy investment and in light 
of the prevailing operating conditions, this was 
an excellent result. 
We have not elected for the early adoption of
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS )
and accordingly the financial statements have been
prepared on a basis consistent with the prior periods.
BUILDING THE SPRINGBOARD
Sterling directly invested a further $65 million 
of cash in the Chinguetti development in 2005. 
The expenditures to complete the field development
work and to commence production, continued 
into 2006, with up to a further $50 million paid 
or currently budgeted. The successful start-up will
transform Sterling's production base and financial
performance. I am very pleased that production
started on-time in late February 2006 and the major
increase in cash flow from this development will 
help to provide the impetus for future growth.
We anticipate development decisions on both the
Tevet and Tiof (Oualata) fields. This would further
boost our cash flow potential through the production
royalty, at no cost to Sterling, and also, in the case 
of Tevet, through the sharing of Chinguetti facilities. 
In addition, we may be able to repeat the mutually
beneficial funding arrangements of Chinguetti on
these or other fields, in Mauritania or elsewhere.
We were less fortunate with developments in the
Gulf of Mexico, with the industry having to cope with
the devastation of possibly the worst hurricane
season in living memory. As well as production
disruptions, development plans were also seriously
impeded by the scarcity and high costs of
equipment, as well as oil and gas price volatility.
Exploration results were mixed, although some
notable successes were recently recorded, the latest
being the 2006 exploration wells on Galveston Bay
ST251-5 and the Gryphon C-3 noted above.
Group proven and probable reserves were over 21
million boe at the end of the year. The existing
exploration projects have the required prospectivity
to add to these reserves materially, leaving aside any
new projects with which Sterling will be involved. 
Over the next twelve months we expect to 
participate in a number of drilling and other
exploration activities, intended to increase our
reserves at a time of growing worldwide supply
concerns. With wells in Gabon, Mauritania and 
the USA, as well as piston-coring and seismic in
Madagascar, and an emphasis on new ventures, 
it will be a busy time.
 The year 2005 was a year marked by ongoing 
achievement. Pre-tax profit rose 20% to a record 
 5.0 million and cash inflow from operations 
(before the closure cost noted above and working 
capital movements), was up 13% at  8.8 million. 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 7
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
STREAMLINED MANAGEMENT
During the last year the staff have not only had 
to deal with day-to-day matters, but also the
consolidation of African management activities in 
the UK, establishing a staffed office in Mauritania
and the impact of the hurricanes in the USA.
This, coupled with the expansion and strengthening
of various functions to cope with our growth, has
made it a challenging time. I would like to thank 
all of our staff, including those who worked with 
us in our Perth office, for their support and
professionalism in this demanding period. 
We believe the benefits of these changes will
become increasingly apparent.
I would also like to thank Dr. Elizabeth Butler 
who, after many years of service, will not be 
seeking re-election to the Board at this year's AGM. 
Her contribution has been greatly appreciated. 
I welcome Christopher Callaway, who joined the
Board in February 2006. His long and distinguished
career in the City will bring significant additional
skills at this challenging time.
STRONG OUTLOOK
The outstanding progress of your Company 
over the last number of years is in no small way 
due to the expertise and dedication of its staff 
whose industry knowledge and professionalism 
have created the significant opportunities for growth
available to us today. In my decades in the industry, 
I have never felt so optimistic about the outlook 
and I believe Sterling is very well positioned to 
take advantage of the resulting opportunities.
With a significant increase in production 
and cash flow in 2006 and an increasingly exciting
exploration portfolio in a time of growing energy
shortages, Sterling can look forward with confidence
to a rewarding period in the years ahead.
Richard O'Toole
Chairman
21 April 2006
 During the last year the staff have not only had 
to deal with day-to-day matters, but also the 
consolidation of African management activities in 
the UK, establishing a staffed office in Mauritania 
and the impact of the hurricanes in the USA. 