 The full year to 31 March 2005 has been one of considerable progress by the Group. At the time of my Interim
Statement for the six months ended 30 September 2004, I concluded that your Board looked forward to the
future with confidence. I believe this sentiment was well founded and that the market in which Stonemartin
operates is gathering momentum.
At the time of the reverse takeover of Ashquay Group PLC in August 2001, the Directors of Stonemartin set
out a practical business strategy which encompassed four key elements:
  The creation of a Limited Partnership to own buildings
 A partnership with the Institute of Directors (IoD ) for marketing and branding, combined with the delivery
of services to their members
  The outsourcing of facilities management to achieve economies of scale
  The disposal of non core assets to release capital for investment in the business.
I am pleased to report that the Limited Partnership structure is working well. The refinements outlined in last
year's Annual Report have ensured the alignment of interests between Stonemartin and the Limited Partners
and revenue and costs are now attributed directly to the buildings in which they arise.
We continue to enjoy the full support of The Institute of Directors. The members are delighted with the facilities
which we have provided in our corporate centres and we have been working closely on joint marketing
initiatives, which we believe will drive new business, particularly conferencing, for both Stonemartin and the IoD.
The alliance with Certainty Total Facilities Management, on which I reported in the Interim Statement, has
developed well and is enabling us to deliver an outstanding level of service to our customers, broaden the
range of services we offer and work towards an improved financial performance. 
As I reported in the Interim Statement, we have sold our building in Cork and our shares in TDI Corporation
Limited. The disposal of TDI Corporation Limited produced a profit of  1.1 million.
Financial Highlights
The results for the year show an operating loss of  2.2 million (2004: loss of  3.3 million) and a loss on
ordinary activities before taxation of  1.0 million (2004: loss of  3.4 million), producing a loss per share of 0.8p
(2004: loss of 3.0p). The results are in line with the Board's expectations.
Income comprises rental income and the proceeds from sale of trading properties. During the year ended
31 March 2005, the Group disposed of the Cork property. This amounted to  4.1 million in turnover and a
loss after disposal costs of  26,000.
The results include a profit of  1.1 million on the sale of TDI Corporation Limited. At 31 March 2005 the Group
had net funds of  3.5 million (2004:  1.3 million).
Market Overview
From tentative beginnings fifteen years ago the managed and serviced office market is now maturing.
Independent commentators now consistently underscore the business fundamentals which drive the sector.
It is much more widely appreciated that the highly competitive costs for occupation in a managed or serviced
office can be compelling for occupiers who do not wish to expose themselves to the long-term obligations of
a conventional lease. Additionally, the flexibility to grow or contract within the same building and the speed
with which new tenants can occupy space are highly attractive features.
DTZ, the international property advisors, have commenced a bi-annual report on the flexibly managed office
market and comment in their report published in May 2005, that business centres now accounted for 1% of
the UK's office stock compared with 15% in the US, figures that give an idea of the growth potential . DTZ's
report also predicts a solid rise in occupancy over the next three years, with an additional 30,000 workstations
taken up by 2008.
It is against this backdrop that I am pleased to report on the progress of the Group for the year ended
31 March 2005.
Trading and Operations
Three buildings, in Bristol, Birmingham and Manchester, operated throughout the financial year and together
provide 1,672 workstations, of which 1,017 were contracted at 31 March 2005.
Castlemead, Bristol is operated on a fee basis under a management contract on behalf of its owner. The
property provides 213 workstations. Actual occupancy at 31 March 2005 was 72% (30 September 2004 -
72%) although this will decline as the management agreement draws to a close in early 2006. Negotiations
are in hand to acquire a new property on behalf of the Limited Partnership to serve the Bristol market. This is
likely to be of a scale similar to Birmingham and Manchester, enabling it to make a more significant
contribution to revenues and profits in the years ahead.
One Victoria Square, Birmingham, which is operated under the Limited Partnership funding agreement,
provides 566 workstations. Actual occupancy at 31 March 2005 stood at 75% (30 September 2004 - 54%)
and contracted occupancy at 23 June 2005 stood at 80%. Contracted occupancy is generally based on
agreements covering a period of between 6 months and 5 years. New clients include EC Harris LLP,
Numerica LLP and Capita Group Plc. 
Peter House, Manchester, which is also owned by the Limited Partnership, delivers 893 workstations of which
38% were occupied at 31 March 2005 (30 September 2004 - 23%). At 23 June 2005 contracted occupancy
Chairman's
statement
Year ended
31 March 2005
Stonemartin plc annual report and accounts 2005 3 stood at 62%. New clients include General Medical Council, Huntswood CTC Limited and The Bank of New
York.
Davidson House, Reading, the third building developed with the Limited Partnership, was completed at the
beginning of June. The building provides an IoD Directors Room and 15 conference and meeting rooms
accommodating from 4 to 100 people, together with capacity for up to 962 workstations. Officially launched
on 15 June 2005, contracted occupancy at 23 June 2005 stood at 19%. New clients include Allied Irish Bank
Group (UK) Plc.
The fifth building in our network, New Broad Street House in the City of London, was completed in late June
2005 and will provide 839 workstations. The building, which is the first of three planned buildings in London,
has been redeveloped by Morley Fund Management and has been designed specifically for operation by
Stonemartin. An extensive conference centre has been created on the lower ground floor, with an IoD
Directors Room on the ground floor.
Conferencing and training are now making material contributions to building revenues and we see
considerable opportunities for expansion. We have appointed Conference Sales Managers in Birmingham,
London, Manchester and Reading. These managers are led by our General Manager in Manchester, Julie
Kenyon, who has a solid track record of success in this area of our business.
Board and Management
At the commencement of the 2004-5 financial year, the Board set the following goals:
  Complete the non core property disposal programme 
  Deliver two new buildings for operation in the 2005-6 financial year
  Increase occupancy within existing buildings 
  Streamline the management structure
 Reduce central overheads
  Introduce more effective outsourced facilities management 
  Set up a regional sales structure.
I am pleased to report that all of these goals have been successfully achieved.
The appointment of General Managers to each building has proved to be a very positive step and I am
pleased that we have been successful in recruiting experienced professionals, with considerable industry
experience at all those buildings operated in conjunction with the Limited Partnership and in the new City
building. We are fortunate that, in addition to their business management skills, we have assembled a team
with individual specialisms in operations, conferencing, training and technology, the benefits of which are
being delivered to the Group as a whole. 
For the coming year the Board has set three primary goals which it believes will lay the foundations for
sustained profitability:
  Increase occupancy and workstation rates
  Increase efficiency of building operation
  Expand the network.
Tim Worboys, Sales and Marketing Director, is focussed with his team on increasing market awareness,
occupancy levels and workstation rates. 
Graham Ede, whilst retaining his responsibilities as Finance Director, has been appointed Chief Operating
Officer with a remit to drive greater efficiencies into individual buildings, whilst continuing to enhance the level
of service delivery.
Colin Peacock will focus on developing our future corporate strategy and, in particular, identifying new
buildings for operation in the years ahead.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank Mike Adams and John Gandy, who resigned as Directors in
October 2004, for their contribution to the development of Stonemartin and to wish them well for the future.
Prospects
Following the launches of Davidson House and New Broad Street House, our total workstations under
management will stand at 3,473, an increase of over 100% compared to September 2004. This marks a
considerable step forward for the business and, under our business plan, provides the critical mass at
stabilised occupancy of 80% to fund the operation of the existing business.
Much work has been undertaken this year to develop the product still further. The success of this programme
is reflected in the quality, design and feel of the two new buildings in Reading and the City of London. I urge
all of our shareholders to take the opportunity to view these new properties on the website or preferably visit
them in person. In this way, I believe that you too will share our optimism for the future.
Richard Mead
Chairman
1 July 2005
Chairman's
statement
Year ended
31 March 2005
4 Stonemartin plc annual report and accounts 2005