 06
Executive Chairman's Report
These achievements were accomplished
against a backdrop of continued high levels
of economic volatility across world markets
and uncertain commodity demand in the
world's major markets. Debt issues in the
euro zone, fragile recovery in the United
States and concerns over decelerating
growth levels in China and other emerging
global economies have contributed to a
challenging near-term demand environment. 
In the face of these challenges, I am pleased
to report that Strategic Minerals performed
well during 2012. Following my appointment
as Executive Chairman and the appointment
of Paul Harrison as Chief Executive Officer in
May 2012, we embarked upon a near-term
goal of achieving full-scale production at the
Company's operations in New Mexico and a
comprehensive evaluation of its exploration
assets in Australia. While I focused on the
Company's operations in New Mexico, Mr.
Harrison focused on a detailed review of our
pipeline of exploration iron ore assets in
Queensland, Western Australia and the
Northern Territory of Australia, raising funds
to deliver vital working capital for the
Company and communication with our
shareholders and the wider investing
community.
Activities at the Cobre stockpile were
strengthened by the conclusion of the
Glencore off-take supply contract and the
completion of the South Western Railroad
rail-spur upgrade. By ensuring the efficient
loading and shipment of delivery-ready
magnetite at Cobre, Strategic Minerals has
successfully established a low-cost, cash
generative operation that benefits from a
solid customer base and is well positioned to
achieve export sales in 2013 totalling
approximately 600,000 dry metric tonnes.
Strategic Minerals is uniquely positioned to
become a relevant supplier to the global iron
ore market.
Strategic Minerals achieved key milestones in 2012, driven
by a commitment to commence full-scale production at the
Cobre stockpile in New Mexico, increase resource
knowledge across our portfolio of Australian exploration-
stage projects and build sustainable value for shareholders. 
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012
US$3.5m
Rail refurbishment completed at
Cobre in 2012.
48,000
Dry metric tonnes of magnetite
exported to Glencore AG in
November 2012.
100t
Rail car shipments are now
possible from Cobre. Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements
07
Our Cobre operations provide the launch
pad from which Strategic can pursue the
acquisitions of additional magnetite
stockpiles and create long-term value. In
that regard, Strategic Minerals has a very
good relationship with the Cobre mine
owner Freeport-McMoRan, which we
believe puts Strategic Minerals in a good
position to secure rights to the additional
tailings at Cobre if they become available, as
well as potential opportunities at other
FreePort-McMoRan mines. 
Magnetite production: Cobre
Our Cobre operations in New Mexico are
now in full-scale production. 
Strategic Minerals' delivery-ready stockpile
of high-grade magnetite at the Cobre
stockpile, located at Fiero in southern New
Mexico, is the by-product of mining the
copper-gold-molybdenum copper porphyry
deposit until the mine's closure in 2000.
The beneficiated magnetite stockpile has a
JORC Compliant Resource of 800,000
tonnes at a grade of 64.2% Fe and 770,000
tonnes at 59.1% Fe, and is highly saleable
in its existing state. 
The Cobre magnetite material is a treated
by-product of copper mining and milling
activities from the 1970s. After being
processed through ball mills to grind the
rock down to sand size (P80 of 90 micron),
the magnetite was recovered by magnetic
separation to form a magnetite
concentrate. The magnetite has been
stockpiled in a dam for over 20 years and
contains minor and very thin seams of clay. 
The clay seams, along with trace amounts
of other minerals like garnet, reduce the
iron grade of the product. The clay and
other minerals are liberated and easily
removed during the screening process that
Strategic Minerals has established on site.
The magnetite concentrate is non-
hazardous and there is a full environmental
permit at Cobre that enables the free
scoop, screen and logistics operation to be
undertaken unhindered. The material is a
high-grade magnetite feed stock suitable
for blending with lower iron grade or
coarser size materials to improve plant
efficiencies and throughput rates. The
milling process reduced the particle size
down to 40-150 micron. Therefore, the
effort and energy required to refine the
magnetite product into a saleable product
has already been made.
Through the efforts of our team in New
Mexico initial shipments took place early in
2012 with trucks collecting the magnetite
for domestic US consumers at mine gate,
thus providing early cash flow for the
project, and our first export shipment was
achieved in November.
The most significant development step
came with the rehabilitation of the 6.3-mile
(10-kilometre) rail-spur link in June 2012,
which enabled Strategic Minerals to
commence the supply of magnetite to the
export market. The spur upgrade included
the installation of tie replacements,
crossing and point changes, some track
replacement and re-ballasting and
alignment. 
The first test shipment by rail was
completed ahead of schedule in August
2012. This eight rail car shipment to the
Port of Guaymas in Mexico was undertaken
to verify key equipment, processes and
procedures ahead of full-scale commercial
rail shipments, and to ensure robust,
efficient rail freight operations. I am pleased
to note that the Strategic Minerals
operational team quickly resolved all of the
minor operational glitches and equipment
issues that were encountered.
Having proven the logistics chain, Strategic
Minerals focus turned to satisfying the terms
of the commercial contract signed with
Glencore AG, a subsidiary of world-leading
commodity supplier Glencore International
plc, which calls for the supply of 800,000
WMTs (approximately 770,000 DMT) and
underlines the strength of the Company's
business model as a developer of value
adding, delivery-ready resources.
The Glencore contract, first signed in March
2012, was renegotiated in the latter half of
the year to facilitate our first export in
November 2012 and again in January 2013
to facilitate regular shipments going
forward. The November shipment of 48,000
DMT of magnetite was the first export
shipment to be effected through the Port of
Guaymas, and was a hugely important
milestone for the Company, marking the
end of the development stage and the
commencement of full-scale production.
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012
   08
Throughout 2013 we intend to complete
shipments averaging approximately 50,000
DMT per month. In 2012 we delivered over
20,000 tonnes of magnetite to US domestic
customers at the mine gate in addition to
the 48,000 DMT sold to Glencore AG. 
Total revenues of  3.75 million were
achieved in 2012 resulting in a gross profit
of  0.9 million in our maiden year of
operations at Cobre.
The 2012 achievements at Cobre have
demonstrated our ability to acquire and
develop projects to deliver shareholder
upside. Supplying high volumes of
magnetite ore to commercial customers
through the export market will enable us to
increase our revenues significantly in 2013
and beyond.
Governance
Board composition is an essential
component in effective corporate
governance and on-going strategic
planning. I was pleased to join Strategic
Minerals' board in the capacity of Executive
Chairman in May 2012, at the same time as
Paul Harrison was appointed Chief
Executive Officer. The year also saw the
appointments of David Anderson as
Finance Director and George Cardona, who
joined the board as Non-executive Director.
Steven Sanders, who was previously
Chairman of the Company, stepped down
in May 2012 and remained with the
Company as a Non-executive Director until
April 2013. Meanwhile, Executive Director
Matthew Bonthrone and Non-Executive
Director Alex Borrelli chose not to stand for
re-election at the Annual General Meeting
in June 2012 in order to focus on their
other business interests. On behalf of the
board, I would like to extend my thanks to
Steven, Matthew and Alex, who made
substantial contributions to the
development of Strategic Minerals,
particularly in bringing the Company to the
AIM market in 2011. 
The board strives to achieve effective
decision-making and value-adding results
on behalf of the Company's shareholders.
The new executive composition of board
members has an appropriate balance of
skills and experience required to ensure the
continued fast-track development of
Strategic Minerals in the global iron ore
sector and will as opportunities arise be
strengthened and enhanced. We are
currently actively seeking additional non-
executive directors with appropriate skills
and experience.
Outlook and prospects
Despite the challenges of operating within a
volatile natural resource commodity
environment, and concerns in some quarters
regarding the near-term future of steel-
making output in China, the US and other
major manufacturing economies, the outlook
for Strategic Minerals remains very
encouraging. The Glencore off-take contract
and other existing sales relationships in the
US give the Company a stable platform for
growth. 
We expect to sell 600,000 DMT to the
export market during the year ending 31st
December 2013 whilst continuing sales to
the local market.
Strategic Minerals remains committed to its
strategy of efficiently utilising capital to
generate substantial upside and position the
Company for future growth. As we progress
through 2013, I remain optimistic about the
prospects for our industry and our company
in particular.  
I take this opportunity to thank our hard
working and dedicated team, and
acknowledge the support provided to the
Company by our stakeholders, suppliers
and customers.
James Fyfe
Executive Chairman
24 May 2013
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012