 4
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Dear shareholders,
In the 2008 annual report I stated that we intended to bring your Company through 
the financial crisis stronger than when we entered it. I believe we have achieved this. 
We have a solid portfolio of gold assets in Turkey and Ethiopia with a total resource 
base of 1.17 million ounces of gold across all categories to JORC standard and a 
proven strategy of adding value by focused low-cost exploration prior to optioning/
joint venturing projects on to dedicated mining companies. These provide Stratex 
with the foundations for measurable growth in the near future.
During the period under review, we secured joint venture partnerships with mining 
majors to fast-track project development, took our first steps towards moving into gold 
production, and expanded our geographic reach into Africa. Importantly, through the 
partnership agreements we have significantly de-risked our portfolio, having attracted 
a potential US$15.5 million of partners' money to develop projects found by Stratex.
A priority of the Board at the start of the year was the conservation of cash, given 
the uncertainties resulting from the banking crisis. I am pleased to say that we have 
been successful in this aim, reducing our year-over-year cash spend by some 46%. 
Additionally, in January 2010 we raised  1.3 million via a share placement. As a 
result of these actions Stratex's balance sheet is very healthy, thus allowing for 
strong growth in this exciting sector.
In Turkey, we announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding ( MOU') 
on 15 June 2009 to form a Joint Venture Company ( JVC') with private Turkish 
company NTF Insaat Ticaret Ltd Sti ( NTF') to fast-track the Inlice and Altintepe gold 
projects into production. These two projects contain a current combined oxide-gold 
resource of approximately 570,000 ounces. Although the subsequent negotiation 
process has taken longer than initially envisaged, the Company announced signing 
of the Definitive Agreement with NTF on 27 January 2010. Final closure of the 
agreement will follow the completion of various administrative matters but the 
commercial terms of the JVC are agreed.
Proposals to manage the feasibility process, submitted by a number of major 
international consultancy groups, have been reviewed and, following site visits 
undertaken by the short-listed companies in late February/early March 2010, the 
selected consultancy team will be announced shortly. In the meantime the JVC has 
continued to work on scoping and pre-feasibility studies and, following final closure, 
which the Directors expect to happen within Q2 this year, the JVC aims to take Inlice 
into production within 18 months of that closure.
Subject to a positive outcome of initial scoping studies, funded by NTF to an amount 
of $500,000 and anticipated to be completed by mid-2010, we anticipate Alt ntepe 
going into production within 36 months. We continue to be impressed by the 
professionalism shown by NTF's mining team and their commitment to maintaining 
the highest level of momentum with ongoing technical studies necessary to complete 
the full feasibility studies, and we are delighted to be working with them.
In August 2009, we attracted Centerra Exploration B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary 
of gold-miner Centerra Gold Inc., to option our  ks t Project, a high-sulphidation 
gold discovery located in the Central Anatolia region of Turkey. This is an exciting 
development project with defined high-sulphidation gold and importantly two 
porphyry gold targets that have been identified after a project review by independent 
consultant Dr. Stewart Redwood. Post period end, we defined an in-house resource 
estimate for the first zone, Orta am, totalling 147,814 oz of oxide gold at a cut-off 
grade of 0.2 g/t for all categories. Results continue to support the view that  ks t 
has potential to host significant epithermal and porphyry mineralisation.
In addition, Teck increased its equity stake in Stratex and this now stands at 12.5%, 
having relinquished its remaining earn-in on Stratex's projects under the original 
Strategic Alliance Agreement. This gave the Board total flexibility to either develop the 
remaining projects or choose to identify suitable and aggressive partners to fast-track 
selected projects in a shorter timeframe than would have otherwise been achievable.
We are very excited by the
 discovery of outcropping
 epithermal alteration and
 mineralisation in the Afar
 region of the Rift Valley. 
David Hall 5
stratex international plc annual report 2009
Teck continued to show its support in your Company with the signing of an option agreement over the exciting Hasan elebi 
high-sulphidation prospect in Turkey for US$2 million to acquire up to 51% in the project. We believe that this system has 
considerable upside potential as a large-tonnage, low-grade deposit and with Teck's financial and technical resources we will be 
able to complete the comprehensive exploration programme that is required to prove-up this major mineralised system.
Whilst Turkey remains a key focus, we are confident that our skills can be transferred to expand our geographic reach and 
add value to shareholders. Our first step into new territories was announced in September 2009 when we acquired a 5.6% 
interest in PLUS-quoted Sheba Exploration (UK) Plc ( Sheba') for  40,000. In addition, we signed a Binding Letter of Intent 
with Sheba to earn-in to an initial 60% of the prospective 37km  Shehagne project and explore new prospective targets and 
licence areas in northern Ethiopia on a 70:30 joint venture basis.
Why Ethiopia? The Arabian-Nubian Shield is geologically an area with exciting economic potential as shown by Centamin Egypt's 
10 million ounce Sukari gold deposit in Egypt, the Bisha copper-zinc-gold deposit in Eritrea, and the Jabal Sayid and Madh Adh 
Dhahab gold deposits in Saudi Arabia. We believe that Ethiopia offers similar exciting opportunities for rapid low-cost discovery 
and is not subject to many of the economic and political constraints that neighbouring countries are exposed to, such as product 
sharing agreements and security issues. Ethiopia is relatively unexplored, with few exploration companies active in the area, 
holds a transparent mining code, and is both logistically and financially an easy and cost-effective place to explore. Highlighting 
this, within three months of signing the agreement with Sheba, we established an office, a local team including an administration 
manager, secretary, GIS and support staff, and most importantly, an excellent relationship with the local authorities. Furthermore, 
securing Exclusive Exploration Licences ( EELs') has been a painless, rapid, and transparent process.
The continuing encouraging results at the Shehagne project include the recently reported channel-chip results:
  84 metres grading 1.04 g/t gold
  104 metres grading 0.77 g/t gold
 - including a higher-grade section of 11 metres grading 4.39 g/t gold
This broad zone extends more than 900 metres by length and 200 metres in width and is an encouraging indication of the 
potential of the licence area. As always our priority target is to discover a major high-value deposit of at least 1- 2 million 
ounces of gold and this early-stage target is evidence of the prospectivity of the area. Our work is ongoing and we are also 
in the process of securing a large licence over similar geology east of the Shehagne Project.
In addition to our agreement with Sheba, a large area of interesting yet under-explored geology in the Ethiopian Rift Valley 
appealed to us as earlier research identified this kind of  continental splitting' setting as having considerable potential for 
the development of gold mineralisation. We therefore secured a three-year 1,579 km  Exclusive Exploration Licence in 
November 2009 around our first significant new gold discovery in the Afar Region - the Megenta prospect. Results compiled 
after grab rock outcrop sampling indicated high-level alteration with gold values up to 0.33 g/t gold. These results are 
significant as in such systems gold values are often negligible at this palaeosurface level.
We are very excited by the discovery of outcropping epithermal alteration and mineralisation in the Afar region of the 
Rift Valley. The current slowdown in discovery of new deposits, let alone discovery of new gold provinces, is severe. As 
highlighted by a special session at the forthcoming PDAC conference in Toronto Exploration expenditures are increasing, 
but discovery rates are not. Why? , the importance of discovery to the mining industry has never been as important as it is 
now. The ability of your Company to come up with new concepts and move rapidly to secure a large land position ahead of 
competition places it at the forefront of exploration developments.
As a company, we continue to seek ways to raise market awareness as well as develop value-added drivers to our portfolio. All 
potential opportunities for growing your Company are constantly under review, both by the Board and through the input of our 
various financial advisers. Whilst Turkey continues to provide superb opportunities for Stratex, Ethiopia is also proving to be an 
exciting country to explore and there are also various projects across the African continent that we are currently reviewing.
We look forward to 2010 with real enthusiasm. We have quality partners, are moving towards production, have a healthy 
cash position, and have a number of projects that show potential for major gold discoveries.
It remains for me to thank the whole Stratex team - my fellow Board members, Bahri Yildiz and the Turkish staff, and Dan 
James and the Ethiopian staff for their tremendous efforts during the past year. We believe it is a credit to your Company 
that we achieved what we set out to do at the beginning of 2009 - that, despite the crisis, and even because of it, we would 
emerge a stronger and better positioned company.
David J. Hall
Executive Chairman
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT continued