 Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2003 3
Chairman's
statement
For the year ended 
30 September 2003
Introduction
I am pleased to report on a year in which progress has been made towards strengthening the Group's
financial and commercial position against the background of challenging trading conditions. The return to
profitability of the Group as a whole, achieved in the final quarter of last year, has been sustained. Profit
on ordinary activities before exceptional write-offs was  308,000 (2002: loss  2,114,000).  Decision makers
in our sectors remained cautious and, as a result, a significant increase in the volume of business for the
Group as a whole did not materialise. Turnover increased marginally to  14.03m (2002:  13.68m).
Although results from Europe are poor, positive progress has been made in implementing changes in
those operations. At the half-year we indicated our intention to revise the arrangements for the provision
of services in Europe. The exceptional losses from subsequent disposals of our interests in certain joint
ventures were  465,000 (2002: impairment of goodwill  333,000). The remaining joint ventures are better
than break-even. The business has generated a positive cash inflow of  1.3m before financing and
movement in creditors. This has been applied to reduce both creditors and bank borrowings resulting in
net borrowings falling to  1.911m (2002:  2.390m) and gearing reducing to 128% (2002:  217%). Trade
debtor days deteriorated during the year but have improved since the year-end. The bank facility has been
renewed for the forthcoming 12 months at a level which the directors believe continues to give the
Company sufficient flexibility to address the business needs over that period. 
Board Changes
In June 2003 three executives joined the Board. Stuart McLarty was appointed Director responsible for
group marketing, Paul Newman was appointed Director responsible for group project performance and
Stephen Embley was appointed Director responsible for group resource co-ordination. All three are
qualified design professionals who have been with the Company for over ten years. Together they are
responsible for the formulation and implementation of initiatives to utilise across the Group the range of
skill sets and client sector knowledge in marketing, sales support and project management. Andrew Lett
resigned from the Board in August 2003 and left the Company on 30 September 2003. We appreciate and
thank him for his many years of loyal service to the Group. 
Review of Operations
As stated in our half-year results we experienced a slow down in work levels in early spring. This continued
through the second half of the year. Costs were trimmed accordingly to ensure that the Group as a whole
remained profitable but market research and marketing spend were maintained throughout to develop the
opportunities that ultimately will deliver the required long-term growth in both turnover and profit.
Overleaf: Bedfont Lakes, Middlesex, UK   Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2003 6
UK operations
In the UK the business unit organisation began to make an impact in accessing new business. The retail
sector has had an inconsistent year. As retail is often the driver for mixed use developments, Aukett's
expertise has brought success in winning two major new commissions during the year in Folkestone and
the Isle of Dogs, East London. They both include approximately 600 apartments as well as retail and
commercial elements thus extending our sector coverage into residential. They are currently progressing
through planning stages.
The corporate office sector has had a difficult year with a significant decline in activity across the industry.
Nevertheless major projects have been won and work has started on a new facility for Fujitsu in
Manchester, the mechanical and electrical engineering services for the 20,000 sq. metre Palestra office
development in Southwark, new office buildings at Leeds Valley Business Park and the office and studio
facilities for Sky Sports at the British Sky Broadcasting HQ site in West London.
Urban planning in towns and cities and master planning of large greenfield sites have been buoyant and
furthermore have opened up major project opportunities. We have received a number of important
appointments including a high density mixed use master plan in Brentford, West London, which has been
completed, and an on-going 90 acre mixed use master planning project at Northfleet, Kent, which
combines commercial, retail, educational, leisure and hotel elements. Our success is not limited to the UK.
Inter alia, we have secured and completed a commercial site master plan in Barcelona for Habitat Grupo
Inmobiliario and are now working on a 505 hectare master plan for a new town in Kozino, Russia.
Interior design has also been increasingly active. A commission for the Independent Police Complaints
Commission was completed this year and the Company has projects for new offices for the Driver and
Vehicle Licencing Agency in Swansea and a new HQ for Microsoft in Athens. These are supplemented by
regular projects arising under existing framework agreements with BT, the Royal Bank of Scotland and the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
We have been active in pursuing Government funded programmes in health and education. These types
of projects will take some time to crystallise. Nevetheless we have completed a master plan for Brunel
University during the year and are currently involved in the design of a knowledge laboratory for a
collaboration between the Institute of Education and Birkbeck College, University of London. We have
also substantially completed a master planning study for Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge and a
strategic master plan for the adjacent research & development campus.
In the UK, the Company has won six major industry awards including the Retail Property Award  for the
best retail park for the Orbital Shopping Park, Swindon, and from the British Council for Offices their
National award for the fit-out of the new headquarters for BT Wholesale Markets Division near Gatwick
and their London region award for the fit-out of the Diageo headquarters building. 
Chairman's
statement
For the year ended 
30 September 2003 Chairman's
statement
For the year ended 
30 September 2003
Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2003 7
European operations
Consistency of quality in our design and delivery are the key factors which international clients require in
Europe. Aukett's brand concentrates on the integration of marketing and sales and the effective use of
our skills and knowledge. There are signs that this approach is bringing some success. We are now
undertaking the Moscow HQ for Proctor & Gamble and a refurbishment of BT's office space in Munich.
Both of these projects will be ongoing in 2004. The Royal Bank of Scotland has awarded us further
project work on their facilities across Europe. Furthermore, we have also substantially completed a major
new research facility for General Electric Global Research in Munich with the Facilities Group. We intend
to continue this drive and our offices in Warsaw and Prague are well placed to market our services as the
European Union welcomes new Eastern European member states in 2004.
As announced in our Interim Report in June 2003, we were taking action to rationalise our overseas
operations. We have now disposed of our interest in our Spanish joint venture which made significant
losses over the past few years. In addition, we have withdrawn from the management of the Paris based
joint venture and as a result we have written off our investment.
Management and staff
The progress the Group has made during the year is in no small way thanks to the skill and enthusiasm of
our staff. They have continued to maintain the high standards set both by us and our clients in what is a
very demanding and competitive market. We do understand that financial restraints have put increased
pressure on management and staff. I am delighted to report that they responded positively to the
challenge and made a significant contribution to the changes that have reversed last year's performance.
The fact that the Group has won a number of industry awards and many new appointments this year is
evidence of their professionalism and quality of work. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our
employees for their hard work and dedication throughout the year.
Summary
I am pleased that the turnaround outlined in this report has been effected with the resultant small
improvement in the Group's balance sheet. This has been led by an improved UK performance. We have
dealt with the two badly performing joint ventures. Our remaining European operations are in fragile local
markets but they remain an important conduit for delivering services under the Aukett brand to
international clients. There has been a modest improvement in net borrowings. The improvement in cash
flow should continue next year and the Board believes that it will be sufficient to support a modest
infrastructure investment programme, necessary to enhance the Group's competitive advantage, as well
as a further reduction in gearing. The Board believes that the Group's profitability will be sustained in
2003/04 but remains cautious about the pace of growth.
IGF Mavor
Chairman
11 December 2003 