 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Sunkar Resources plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman's Statement
04
2010 was indeed a pivotal year for 
your company. The Project progressed, 
as envisaged, with the Company's first
JORC mineral resource statement
announced in January.
2010 was indeed a pivotal year for Sunkar Resource plc
(Sunkar  or the Company ). The integrated phosphate
fertilizer project (the  Project ) at the Chilisai Phosphate
Rock Deposit in North Western Kazakhstan progressed, as
envisaged, with the Company's first JORC mineral resource
statement announced in January, a feasibility study on the
Project (the Feasibility Study ) started in March, followed
by the appointment of key consultants to advise the
Company on potential joint venture partners and strategic
finance, the renegotiation of the Subsoil Use Contract
(SUC  or mining licence ) and the fulfilment of the
Company's mining commitments by the end of October.
Equally important, further support has been garnered 
from the Kazakhstan authorities: (a) Sunkar's milling plant
to produce phosphate flour  has been included in
Kazakhstan's State Industrial Development Program
(Development Program ), a major Government support
initiative; and (b) Sunkar's planned ammoniated fertilizer
project has also recently been included in the Development
Program. These clearly demonstrate strong Governmental
support for the Company's plans to produce high value
finished ammoniated fertilizers from the abundant
phosphate and sulphur resources in the country.
In February 2011, the Company published information 
from its Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM ), 
an intermediary stage in the development of its Feasibility
Study which is set to be completed this year. It is clear
from the PIM that the Chilisai project is capable of
generating an impressive revenue stream, and that the
economics of the Project are robust.
Financial overview
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Temir
Service LLP (Temir Service ) and Chilisai Chemicals LLP
(together the Group ) did not generate revenue in 2010 and
the loss for the year was $13.405 million (2009: $14.394
million). The accounts, for the first time, include debt funding
in the form of a commercial loan ($3.462 million drawn down
by end 2010) which was used to continue investment in 
the development of the Group. The loan from ATF Bank
Kazakhstan envisages the bank providing up to $15 million 
in debt financing for a term of up to 3 years (the ATF Loan ).
In addition to the ATF Loan, the Company secured a three
year Equity Line Facility (ELF ) of up to  10 million in June.
The timing of draw down of funds from ELF , at
management's discretion, is dependent on the liquidity and
stock prices at the time. Whilst nearing completion of the
Feasibility Study, the directors believe this will be less
dilutive to shareholders than alternative equity issuance at
this stage and intend to use this finance for working capital
purposes. The first draw down under the ELF was $813,300
( 500,000) which was announced on 15 April 2011.
Longer term strategy
As Sunkar's mining licence means ore extraction
commitments have to be met, the short term strategy is 
to develop a phosphate rock (DAR ) business to achieve 
a self funding mining operation until the start-up of its
proposed world scale ammoniated phosphate 
fertilizer complex.
Sunkar's main goal is to develop a 1.6 million tonne
ammoniated phosphate fertilizer production capability
adjacent to its mining operations. These plans are the
focus of the Company's current Feasibility Study which will
address all the aspects necessary to support a final project
investment decision. In preparation for project investment (both equity and
debt), UniCredit Securities, Moscow, were appointed as
advisers to explore strategic options for the capital phase
of the Project and raising of strategic equity finance. 
In October, the Company signed a Project Finance
Advisory (debt) mandate with UniCredit AG.
Mineral resource estimate
In January, the Company announced a JORC compliant
mineral resource estimate, prepared by Wardell Armstrong
International Limited (WAI ). The estimate covers 40% of the
Company's 836 sq km Chilisai licence area (Licence Area )
and demonstrates that this area alone contains sufficient
resource to meet the first 20 years of planned ore extraction
and confirms previous Soviet era resource estimates.
Mining operations/subsoil license
In June, Temir Service received the consent of the
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to change the
Company's work programme (the Work Programme )
commitments under its SUC to develop the Chilisai
phosphate deposit. 
The key changes in the SUC were: (a) a reduction in 
the Company's obligations on ore extraction; and (b) 
an extension of the commitment to meet associated
cumulative development expenditure of $115 million 
from the end of 2014 to 2020.
Phosphate rock sales
Management's decision to invest in a twin mill complex, 
to grind our concentrate to produce phosphate flour , 
was based on the recognition of the underlying demand for
phosphate fertilizer in Kazakhstan, one of the largest grain
producing and exporting countries in the world. Unlike
many phosphate rocks, Chilisai rock is highly reactive and
therefore can be used as a fertilizer in a relatively raw state.
As Chilisai ground phosphate concentrate will be the
feedstock for the future fertilizer plant, it may be used as
the feedstock for existing phosphoric plants in the region
providing a valuable second potential sales route.
Delivering on our Objectives
> Target extraction of 1 million tonnes of 
ore was achieved in 2010. A total of 
2.2 million tonnes of ore has been 
extracted in total, meeting all current
obligations under the SUC
> A milling and railroad loading complex
commissioned
> Target P
2
O
5
recovery rates have been
consistently achieved by a simple dry
beneficiation process
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Sunkar Resources plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman's Statement
continued
05 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Sunkar Resources plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman's Statement
continued
06
Loading one tonne bags with Direct Application Rock Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Sunkar Resources plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman's Statement
continued
07
The first mill was commissioned at year end putting the
Company in a position to make sales. In April 2011, the
Company reported its first commercial sale of DAR and is
finalising further sales agreements. Significant interest has
been shown by potential industrial buyers and an industrial
scale test will be conducted later this year at an existing
Russian phosphoric acid plant. The success of this trial will
hopefully lead to a long term off-take agreement. 
Feasability study
In March, SNC-Lavalin (SNCL ) was appointed to prepare
the Feasibility Study.
In February 2011, SNCL delivered the PIM, which presents
the preliminary results of the Feasibility Study. The PIM
covers the first phase of the project which has a capacity of
430,000 tonnes (Phase One ) per annum of P
2
O
5
nutrient in
the form of mono-ammonium phosphate (MAP )/di-
ammonium phosphate (DAP ), half of the Project's 
target capacity.
The study of the Project's economics and current value was
based on capital and operating costs estimates by SNCL,
fertilizer price forecasts prepared by CRU Strategies Limited
combined with a project timeline consisting of a four year
development and construction phase in 2011-2015 followed
by 20 years of production starting in 2015.
The PIM's nominal cash cost of DAP production of $186 per
tonne in 2016 increasing to $221 per tonne in 2025 will be
one of the lowest in the world.This very low production cost
base highlights the economic robustness of the Project.
The Feasibility Study is expected to be completed 
by the end of June 2011 and will cover the Project's full
capacity of 1.6 million tonnes of MAP/DAP per annum. 
The Board looks forward to the publication of the
Feasibility Study with confidence that the Project's
economic robustness will have further improved.
Board, management & staff
Our management remains the key to the success of
Sunkar. The Directors and I gratefully acknowledge the
efforts and commitments of our employees, consultants
and contractors for the significant progress made once
again against a demanding timetable and the Company 
is indebted to their skills and hard work.
I would also like to thank the Board for their continuing
efforts, bringing extensive experience of mining, oil & gas,
and manufacturing industries, as well as extensive 
financial experience.
Post balance sheet events
In February 2011, changes to the Company's SUC
described in the Business Review on page 12 were ratified
by the Kazakhstan authorities. 
In February 2011, the results of the Preliminary Feasibility
Study for the Company's phosphate fertilizer project were
published and the Kazakhstan authorities ratified the
changes to the work programme of its SUC.
In March 2011, Ambrian Partners Limited was appointed
the Company's Nominated Adviser and Broker.
In March 2011, the Company published its first ore
reserves estimate prepared by Wardell Armstrong
International. Proven and Probable Reserves are estimated
to be 265 million tonnes assuming a cut off grade of 5%
P
2
O
5
, overburden less than 6 metres and dilution of 11%. 
In April 2011, the Company announced its first sale of DAR.
In April 2011, the Company announced it had made its first
draw down of $813,300 ( 500,000) under the ELF .
Outlook
The long term outlook for the phosphate fertilizers sector
remains very positive. The world is in need of new
phosphate fertilizer capacities to meet the growing demand
for food, feed, fibre and biofuel crops as populations grow
and economies develop. All these require the ability to
grow biomass and that is dependent on the availability of
phosphorus. Increased production will come from either
farming more intensively or extending the amount of land
used. Kazakhstan and other former Soviet Union (FSU )
countries have significant potential to both increase yields
and the land used for production, while Kazakhstan's
neighbour China is the world's largest cereal producer.
Against this backdrop your company is well placed to
supply markets with enormous potential. 
The Board's belief is that the forthcoming Feasibility Study
will demonstrate that the Project is capable of producing
DAP and MAP at a very competitive cost and that the
economics that underpin the Project are robust.
Teck Soon Kong
Chairman