  
Page 3 
SUNKAR RESOURCES PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Throughout the year, the Group continued to generate revenue by producing Direct Application Rock (DAR ) 
and ground phosphate rock from its milling plant, for sale to the Kazakh agricultural sector and industrial 
customers in Russia which generated revenue of $1.5 million and through utilising its mining machinery assets 
to undertake earth moving infrastructure contracts for the Kazakh national railways. 
 
Revenue of $4.4 million was generated from the completion of the Group's first earth moving contract for the 
construction of a rail track foundation on a stretch of new railway line in Western Kazakhstan and $9.1 million 
from the completion of a second earth moving contract signed in April 2013 with the same general contractor 
for another stretch of the rail track foundation. 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS  
 
The audited financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union. For 2013, the Group reported a loss of $4.4 million (2012: $9.2 million). Group 
net cash outflow in the year was $0.2 million (2012: net cash inflow - $0.3 million). 
 
DIRECT APPLICATION ROCK AND GROUND PHOSPHATE ROCK SALES 
 
The Company continued the pursuit of its strategy for marketing DAR to the local agricultural sector as well as 
ground phosphate rock sales to industrial customers and generated revenue of $1.5 million from sales to 
farmers and industrial users. Temir-Service LLP (Temir ) sold 16,711 tonnes during 2013, which were bagged 
to farmers in Kazakhstan and Russia. 
 
EARTH MOVING CONTRACTS 
 
The Group completed its first earth moving contract during the year generating revenues of $4.4 million and 
started a second contract which generated a further $9.1 million. 
 
The second earth moving contract was signed in April 2013 for an approximate total value of $12 million 
inclusive of VAT.   
 
The Group continued to pursue earth moving contracts in order to generate additional cash flow and to make 
use of equipment left idle due to the reduced mining commitments at Chilisai. Due to the flat and shallow 
geological structure of the Company's phosphate deposit, Temir uses earth moving equipment and mining 
techniques similar to those used in laying foundation for major railways and major highways on flat terrain. The 
Group holds the relevant state licences for road construction and has experience of building roads on its contract 
territory. 
 
    
Page 4 
SUNKAR RESOURCES PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
SUBSOIL USE CONTRACT 
 
In March 2014, the Group received final approval of the revised mining commitments applied for during 2013. In 
2013 the Group mined 270,000 tons of phosphate ore under its revised ore mining commitment of 300,000 
tonnes of rock per year. This volume was achieved in two months of work during October and November. 
Management believes that this amount, which equates to 90 per cent. of the target volume, will be sufficient to 
satisfy the relevant authority's requirements under the Subsoil Use Contract, as the early onset of winter meant 
that mining activity had to be aborted earlier than expected. Accordingly, management considers this to be 
sufficient to comply with the Subsoil Use Contract and, following completion of the detailed feasibility study 
(DFS ), the directors do not consider that any impairment of the carrying value of intangible assets is required. 
 
The Company's commitment to meet associated cumulative development expenditure of $115 million from the 
end of 2014 to 2020 has not changed.  
 
GOING CONCERN 
 
The Company requires additional funds to meet its mining commitments and operational costs whilst also finding 
a strategic partner to secure finance for the construction of the fertilizer manufacturing complex. The Group's 
strategy was to achieve this through an increase in the level of phosphate rock sales, generation of positive cash 
flows from earth moving contracts and continued management of its cost base. 
 
However, the Company has not been consistently able to generate sufficient revenue to maintain a viable 
business and, on several occasions, most recently in April, May and June 2014, has had to seek additional 
funding from Sun Avenue Partners Corporation (SAPC ), the Company's majority shareholder, which is wholly 
owned by Mr Almas Mynbayev. The Company has been able to access this funding from SAPC pursuant to 
letters of support from Mr Mynbayev, as first announced to the market on 28 September 2012 and subsequently 
pursuant to a letter of support from JSC Interfarma-K  (the Letter of Support ), a company in which Mr 
Mynbayev is interested. The Letter of Support states that JSC Interfarma-K  will, subject to the agreement of 
mutually acceptable terms, provide financial support to assist the Group in meeting its liabilities as they fall due.   
 
In April 2014, SAPC wrote to the Company to express its concern, with regard to the Company's financial 
situation, and to seek to work with the Company to find a structural alternative to it providing further funding 
under the Letter of Support, in order to provide a more permanent solution to the Company's ongoing funding 
deficit, until sufficient funds were raised to progress with the plans set out in the DFS. 
 
As a result of these discussions, on 19 May 2014, SAPC put forward a proposal to acquire the minority interests 
in Sunkar that it did not already own, such that SAPC would own, on completion of the transaction, 100 per 
cent. of Sunkar.  At the same time, SAPC confirmed that, should this proposal not receive the support of the 
Board, it was highly unlikely that JSC Interfarma-K  would renew its Letter of Support for the coming twelve 
months or provide any further funding to the Company.   
 
Further to these discussions, the Board sought advice from an independent firm of accountants and an 
independent firm of insolvency practitioners as to the financial position of the Company under such a scenario. 
This advice confirmed the Sunkar Board's assessment that, without the financial support of SAPC, it was highly 
probable that the Company would no longer be deemed a going concern, would be unable to meet its debts as 
they became due and would lead to the commencement of insolvency proceedings and the Sunkar Shares would 
be suspended from trading on AIM. 
    
Page 5 
SUNKAR RESOURCES PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
GOING CONCERN (CONTINUED) 
 
In the event that the Company enters into insolvency proceedings, the Sunkar Board believes that Temir would 
cease trading and would also enter into insolvency proceedings in Kazakhstan. Temir would then be unable to 
perform its obligations under the terms of the Subsoil Use Contract, which would result in the Subsoil Use 
Contract being revoked. If Sunkar were to lose its rights under the Subsoil Use Contract, it is the Sunkar Board's 
belief that Sunkar Shareholders would be unlikely to receive any value for their Sunkar shares. 
 
As a result of this advice, and the Board's assessment of the Company's financial position, the Board urgently, 
but unsuccessfully, explored alternative sources of finance, whether equity, debt or a combination of both, but 
was unable to secure such finance. 
 
The Directors, in light of the above, and having been so advised by the Company's Nominated Adviser, 
unanimously agreed to recommend that shareholders accept the offer proposed by SAPC and Serik Utegen and 
Nurdin Damitov, the Directors who currently own and control shares agreed to irrevocably undertake to accept 
such an offer in respect of their combined beneficial shareholding of 12.26 per cent. of the issued ordinary share 
capital of Sunkar. 
 
Accordingly, on 17 June 2014, Sunkar and SAPC announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a 
recommended cash offer to be made by SAPC for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of 
Sunkar not already owned by SAPC, on the basis of 1.835 pence per Sunkar share (the Offer ). 
Following the recommendation from the Directors that the shareholders accept the Offer, as also announced on 
17 June 2014, SAPC has provided an unsecured term loan of $2.55 million to fund the Company's working 
capital requirements throughout the duration of the Offer period and, in any event, for a period of 120 days 
following the date of the agreement. 
 
The Directors remain confident that the completion of the Offer will be successful and, based on the current 
cash flow projections, including the revenue to be generated from sales of DAR, the unsecured term loan 
referred to above and further support from SAPC on completion of the Offer, sufficient funding will be made 
available to enable the Group and Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
 
However, if the Offer does not complete by 16 August 2014 and the Letter of Support is withdrawn and SAPC 
does not provide further funding to the Company, the Board would immediately have to seek alternative sources 
of funding to meet its working capital requirements, which the Board, having previously investigated such 
alternative sources of financing, does not believe would be available to the Company.  This would, in the view of 
the Board, lead to the suspension of the admission of the ordinary shares to trading on AIM and the 
announcement of an administration/insolvency process. 
 
    
Page 6 
SUNKAR RESOURCES PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The Offer made by SAPC provides a certain cash exit and secures the future of the Company against the current 
backdrop of the Group's particularly challenging financial position.  
 
I would like to thank our management team, staff, consultants, contractors and my fellow directors for their 
effort throughout the year to market DAR and substantially complete the earth moving contracts to generate 
revenue in order to fund the working capital.  
 
 
 
Teck Soon Kong 
CHAIRMAN 
 
26 June 2014 
 
  