 51
Superglass Holdings Plc
annual report and accounts 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt about what action you should take, you 
are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent 
financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares 
in Superglass Holdings Plc, you should forward this document, together with accompanying documents, to the purchaser or transferee or to 
the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee. 
Directors Registered Office
John Colley (Executive Chairman) One London Wall 
Alex McLeod (Chief Executive) London 
Chris Lea (Finance Director and Company Secretary)  EC2Y 5AB 
Declan Billington (Non-Executive Director)  
David Gray (Non-Executive Director)
Dear Shareholder
I am writing to inform you that the Annual General Meeting of Superglass Holdings plc (the Company ) will be held at the offices of Maclay Murray 
& Spens LLP, Quartermile One, 15 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh EH3 9EP on Wednesday 22 January 2014 at 11.00am (the AGM ). The formal 
Notice of the AGM and resolutions to be proposed are set out in this document. As well as the ordinary business of the meeting, three resolutions 
(numbered 8 to 10) will be proposed as special business.
Resolution 1: Directors' Report and Audited Accounts for the year ended 31 August 2013
Shareholders will be asked to receive the Directors' Report and the Company's Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 August 2013.
Resolution 2: Directors' Remuneration Report
In compliance with the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors' Remuneration Report which is contained in 
the Report and Accounts. In line with the relevant legislation, this vote will be in respect of the content of the Directors' Remuneration Report 
as a whole, and not specific to any Director's level or terms of remuneration, and will be advisory in nature. No aspect of an individual Director's 
entitlement to remuneration is conditional upon the passing of this resolution.
Resolutions 3 to 5: Election/re-election of Directors
Each of John Colley, Declan Billington and Chris Lea will retire as a Director of the Company at the AGM and each will offer himself for election/
re-election. Brief biographical details of John Colley and Declan Billington appear on pages 8 and 9 of the report and accounts. Brief biographical 
details of Chris Lea, who was appointed by the Board as the Company's Finance Director with effect from 2 December are as follows: Chris was 
previously chief financial officer of Aviagen Europe having held the role of finance director and company secretary of Aviagen Ltd previously. 
Prior to this Chris spent 15 years with KPMG holding various roles within their audit and corporate finance businesses. Chris is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Resolutions 6 and 7: Auditors
The Company is required, at each general meeting at which accounts are presented, to appoint auditors to hold office until conclusion of the next 
such meeting. KPMG Audit Plc has informed the Company that they have initiated a process to streamline their two registered audit firms, being 
KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG LLP. As such KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that they are not seeking re-appointment as auditors to the 
Company. Consequently, resolution 6 will seek shareholder approval for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company. In connection 
with the resignation of KPMG Audit Plc, the Company is required as a matter of law to send you a copy of the statement of the circumstances 
connected with the resignation of the Company's auditors. This statement is set out on page 56 of this document. Resolution 7 authorises 
the Directors to fix the auditors' remuneration.
Resolution 8: Authority for Directors to allot shares
The Companies Act 2006 provides that Directors may only allot shares with the authority of shareholders in a general meeting. The authority given 
to the Directors at the last general meeting of the Company held on Monday 20 May 2013 (the Last GM ) to allot unissued shares pursuant to 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 expires on the conclusion of the AGM.
The guidelines of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) on directors' authority to allot shares state that ABI members will permit, and treat as 
routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot shares representing up to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital and seeking authority to allot 
an additional one-third of the issued ordinary share capital, provided such additional headroom is applied on a fully pre-emptive basis. In light of these 
guidelines, resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution for the renewal of the Directors' general authority to allot shares up to a nominal 
amount of  2,333,941, representing approximately one-third of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company, and to allot additional shares 
up to a nominal amount of  2,333,941, also representing approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, provided 
such additional shares are allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue. The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority 
which, if approved by shareholders, will expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015. 
Other information
Letter to shareho Lders
_0_SPGH_ar13_Back_[MR].indd   32 12/2/2013   1:39:59 PM 52
Superglass Holdings Plc 
annual report and accounts 2013
Resolution 9: Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights
The Companies Act 2006 provides that any allotment of new shares for cash must be made pro rata to individual shareholders' existing holdings, 
unless the statutory pre-emption rights are disapplied. The authority given to the Directors at the Last GM disapplying such provisions and allowing 
them to allot shares for cash pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 expires on the conclusion of the AGM.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution for the renewal of the Directors' authority to allot equity securities for cash, without first 
offering them to shareholders pro rata to their holdings. This authority facilitates issues made by way of rights to shareholders which are not strictly 
in accordance with section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, and authorises other allotments of up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of  350,095 
representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company. This authority also allows the Directors, within the 
same aggregate limit, to sell for cash any shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
It is the Directors' current intention to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Group's Statement of Principles not to allot shares for cash on 
a non-pre-emptive basis (other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer) in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued share 
capital of the Company within a rolling three-year period without prior consultation with its shareholders.
If approved by shareholders the authority granted under resolution 9 will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
to be held in 2015.
Resolution 10: Purchase of own shares by the Company
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution for the renewal of the Company's authority to purchase its own shares in the market during the 
period until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015. The proposed authority is in respect of up to 2,800,758 
ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company. The price payable shall not be more than the higher 
of: (1) 5% above the average price of the middle market quotation as derived from the AIM Appendix to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 
ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made; and (2) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and current independent 
bid as derived from the AIM Appendix to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, or less than 25p per share (being the nominal value of the shares). 
If approved by shareholders it is the Directors' current intention only to exercise the authority to purchase the Company's shares where it would increase 
the earnings per share of those ordinary shares that are not repurchased and, in any event, having obtained the requisite prior consent of Clydesdale Bank plc 
pursuant to an amendment and restatement agreement entered into by the Company on 2 May 2013 in relation to a facilities agreement dated 
7 November 2011, as amended and restated on 21 November 2012.
Any authority granted by resolution 10 will only be used if the Directors consider that to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally. 
Save to the extent purchased pursuant to the regulations concerning treasury shares, any ordinary shares purchased in this way will be cancelled 
and the number of shares in issue will be accordingly reduced. 
The Company may hold in treasury any of its own ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the relevant regulations and the authority conferred 
by this resolution. This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company 
with greater flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Recommendation
The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM 
on pages 53 and 54 of this document, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings, comprising an aggregate of 40,213 ordinary 
shares, representing approximately 0.001% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Yours faithfully
John Colley
Executive Chairman
Letter to shareho Lders CONTINUED
Other information
_0_SPGH_ar13_Back_[MR].indd   33 12/2/2013   1:39:59 PM