 Supporta plc  - Annual Report & Accounts 2008 8
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to present the results for 
the year ended 31 March 2008.  The 
highlights set out earlier reveal the 
mixed fortunes of the two divisions 
over the course of the last year. 
Our Care Division has continued to develop strongly, 
principally through organic growth, with an outstanding year 
of new contract wins secured.  It continues to operate within 
what we believe to be an extremely buoyant marketplace, 
and is well placed to benefit from further organic growth and 
anticipated consolidation within this sector. 
The Professional Services Division results have been impacted 
significantly by the performance of our Architectural practice 
and specifically by the charge as an exceptional item of 
the write-off of  0.77m of accrued income which had been 
recognised in the previous year's accounts.  There have 
nonetheless been some significant developments within the 
Division.  The TerraQuest acquisition has performed ahead 
of management expectations, whilst the Engineering and 
Records Management businesses continued to perform in 
line with expectations.  
Corporate Activity
The Board notes the announcement made by Romac 
Investments Limited ( Romac') on 13 June 2008 and can 
confirm that on 23 April 2008 it received a letter from 
Romac outlining an indicative conditional proposal 
regarding a possible offer for the issued and to be issued 
share capital of Supporta.
On receipt of this letter the board entered into a dialogue 
with Romac seeking to clarify uncertainties surrounding its 
conditional indicative proposal, including in respect of the 
financing of any offer. The board and its advisors also had a 
number of conversations with alternative offerors and 
received an indicative proposal from a third party which 
placed a significantly higher value on the Group than that 
set out by Romac in their letter of 23 April 2008. This 
higher indicative proposal was conditional on receiving the 
support of Gingko Investments Limited ( Gingko'), the 
wholly owned subsidiary of Romac, in any offer by the third 
party. Following discussions with the third party Gingko 
informed Supporta that it would not support the higher 
indicative offer and hence the third party formally 
withdrew from discussions regarding an offer for Supporta.
On 5 June 2008 the board informed Romac that it placed a 
significantly higher value on Supporta than that set out in 
Romac's proposal and that it felt unable to progress matters 
on the basis of Romac's letter of 23 April 2008.
The Supporta board also informed Romac that it would 
welcome an alternative proposal from Romac that placed 
an appropriate value on the Company; a position it 
continues to adopt.
The board has actively been evaluating strategic options for 
the Company and remains committed to taking action to 
deliver value for all shareholders.
In addition to these recent developments, the Group disposed 
of its payroll business to the Mckesson Corporation in 
May 2007 for a total consideration of  3.5 million in cash 
and it acquired the entire share capital of Hallam Healthcare 
Services (East Midlands) Limited for a maximum total 
consideration of  4.7 million in January 2008.
Strategic Review
The Board conducted a full strategic review during the 
course of the year to strengthen the focus of the Group 
and ensure that Shareholders realised the underlying and 
potential value.  The Board, in conjunction with its financial 
advisers, concluded that:
the best way to optimise shareholder value is to  	
continue to grow the Supporta Care business both 
organically and with earnings enhancing acquisitions;
the cost reduction exercise within Supporta Professional  	
Services should position that business to produce 
enhanced returns
The Board will also continue to review whether the two 
businesses are better positioned to take advantage of 
growth opportunities as separate businesses.
The Board reached these conclusions after taking into 
account the following factors:
the Supporta Care division has market opportunity  	
through both acquisition and organic growth initiatives;
the current stock market valuation of the Group does  	
not accurately reflect the value of the component parts 
of the Group; and
the current M & A environment has been adversely  	
impacted by the weakness in credit markets. 
The Directors believe that in this environment, the value 
which potential acquirers would place on the Group's 
Divisions would be negatively affected over the short-term.
Performance in 2007/08
The financial year was adversely impacted by the performance 
of our Architectural practice.  This underperformance led to us 
issuing a trading statement on the 23 January 2008.
In December 2007, Supporta completed a placing which 
raised  4.18m net of expenses. At this time it was the Board's 
expectation that any underperformance arising from its 
Dr Clive Grace
Non-executive Chairman
Our Care Division has continued to 
develop strongly whilst the Professional 
Services Division results have 
been impacted significantly by the 
performance of our Architecture Practice. 
* before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and impairment 9
 
We believe that the Group 
is well positioned to deliver 
underlying organic growth.
Supporta plc  - Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Architectural practice would be offset by stronger 
performance from the other businesses which comprise 
the Professional Services Division, such that market 
expectations of operating performance could be achieved.
Towards the end of January 2008 it became clear that 
the results of Supporta Bay Associates would be impacted 
by contract delays. As a result, on 23 January 2008, the 
Board issued a trading statement explaining that the 
earnings before interest, taxation, exceptional items and 
amortisation for the year to 31 March 2008 would not 
be less than  2.95 million. The revised lower target, as set 
out in this release, has been achieved.
The underperformance of the Architectural practice 
in the financial year to 31 March 2008 has arisen in 
part following a review of all accrued income and 
a recognition that income previously recognised in 
the prior year's financial statements was no longer 
considered recoverable, together with a more rigorous 
policy on revenue recognition in the current financial 
year.  As a result of the underperformance in the 
Architectural practice the management of that business 
unit was changed.
Michael Curran has taken on the role of Divisional 
Managing Director of the Supporta Professional Services 
Division.  The finance team for the division has also been 
significantly strengthened since this time.
A new divisional structure for Professional Services 
has been implemented with the appointment of John 
Gannon to lead the TerraQuest business and John Fynn 
heading up the Services business.  Alongside these two 
business streams lie a Sales and Marketing team led by 
Simon Read and a Corporate Services support function 
headed up by Trevor Fayers.
Banking Facilities   
As a result of the weak trading performance from the 
Group's Architectural practice the Board successfully 
re-negotiated the terms of its term loan facility with its 
bank, Barclays PLC. The Board has agreed with the bank 
a revised covenant and repayment profile.
Trading Outlook   
Trading for the year to date is in line with management's 
expectations and the Directors believe that the Group is 
well positioned to deliver underlying organic growth in 
the year.  Supporta Care continues to perform very 
positively and the Directors believe that it has excellent 
opportunities for growth.  We will continue to monitor 
the development of Supporta Professional Services and is 
confident that 2008/09 will be a year of positive growth.
Core Values
We aspire to be both the supplier and the employer of 
choice for our customers and employees.  These core 
values underpin our entire business. 
Supporta now has an impressive list of customers, 
predominantly in the public sector.  We provide a 
range of critical services which enhance peoples' lives 
on a daily basis.  We acknowledge this burden of 
responsibility and accountability and strive to put in 
place quality controls to ensure that every customer's 
experience of Supporta is both positive and mutually 
rewarding.  The Board regularly receives reports on 
customer satisfaction and customer feedback, reflecting 
the importance which it attaches to meeting and 
exceeding their expectations.
To be the employer of choice we need a highly 
professional, trained and motivated workforce.  We 
aim to reward staff competitively for the roles they 
undertake.  We also realise that for many of our staff 
their roles are vocations rather than simply jobs.  We 
aim to enrich their work life through training and 
development which helps them meet their aspirations 
and also improves the quality of our services.  We 
monitor feedback from staff and seek ways in which 
their working lives can be even more rewarding.
Our staff continue to show exceptional dedication to 
their roles and make a huge contribution to the quality 
of life of many thousands of people, often some of the 
most vulnerable in the United Kingdom.  On this note I 
would like to thank on behalf of the Board all Supporta 
staff who have helped deliver these results and customer 
satisfaction for the past year.
Changes to the Board   
Stephen Whiting left the business on 27 November 2007 
to pursue opportunities outside of the Group.  
Michael Curran took over the role of leading Supporta 
Professional Services forward and Simon Birks was 
appointed as Company Secretary.  Simon is a qualified 
solicitor and takes on his new role after three years 
service with the Group most recently as Group 
Commercial Manager.
The Board of Directors has the drive and determination to 
achieve our ambitious strategic objectives.
  
Dr Clive Grace
Non-executive Chairman 
23 June 2008