 Mission and Values
Page 2
Chairman's Statement
Introduction
The aftermath of the severe downturn in the technology markets two years ago continued to reverberate through our
markets and business during 2003. This put great pressure onto the management team, particularly with the significant
losses incurred during the first half of the year. These pressures were a strong test of the business and measures to
improve the situation were implemented quickly. Those measures carried the strong support of the parent company
Sumitomo Precision Products Co., Ltd (SPP ) during this very difficult time.
A poor first three quarters was followed with a stronger last quarter when a break-even was achieved before further
restructuring and redundancy costs.
This year, Surface Technology Systems plc (STS ) has revised revenue recognition policies in the light of new accounting
guidance in this area and the financial information is reported accordingly, with the accounts being restated for 2002, for
comparative purposes.
The revised recognition policies were agreed by the Board earlier this month as part of the finalisation of the audited
accounts for the year ending 31 December 2003. At the same meeting, the Board determined, that given the
disappointing trading conditions experienced in the first quarter of this year, it would be prudent to review the value of the
Company's stock and certain fixed assets as at 31 December 2003. The impact of this review and revenue recognition
policy is that the value of the Company's assets (net of its liabilities) is now less than half of its called up share capital.In
these circumstances, as directors, we are obliged by section 142 of the Companies Act 1985 to convene an Extraordinary
General Meeting of the Company which will be held immediately after the close of the Annual General Meeting. The
purpose of the Extraordinary General Meeting is to consider, whether and if so, what steps should be taken to deal with
the situation. The directors believe that the steps already taken and which continue to be implemented to improve the
operating efficiency of the Company, coupled with the continued support of SPP, are sufficient to deal with the current
situation. No resolution is required to be put to the Extraordinary General Meeting, but the enclosed Form of Proxy has
been amended to allow shareholders to appoint a proxy, not only for the Annual General Meeting, but also to attend on
their behalf the Extraordinary General Meeting.
Results
Sales declined to  18.4 million, some 42% lower than 2002. The reduction reflected the depth of the recession in the
market, with fewer machines sold and at lower prices, as a result of the competitive pricing pressures encountered. Micro
Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS ), including advanced  chip-scale packaging' processes provided some 60% of the
annual sales, a marginal increase compared with last year's 57%. Photonics sales remained at 16% of total sales and
Wireless Systems declined to 14% from 19% in 2002. The shipment demand for the advanced packaging applications
was primarily for volume production as the new products incorporating the devices, such as telephone cameras, entered
the market. Many of the other MEMS deliveries were for research and development applications; this is mildly encouraging
in that typically such development activity takes place before volume sales are made. The pattern of annual trading was
also very different to previous years with approximately 50% of the sales being made in the last quarter of the year.
Additionally, whilst exports to Europe dropped to 12% of sales, from 23% in 2002, those to Asia, not including Japan, rose
to 35%, from 25%, primarily as a result of the volume increases for the new advanced packaging devices.
The depth of the recession was the primary cause of the losses and, although action was taken during the year to further
reduce costs, operating losses of  6.1 million were made in the year, which included exceptional items of  2.6 million. The
pre-tax loss was  7.1 million compared with a loss of  9.5 million in 2002. Whilst the operating losses excluding
exceptional items for 2003 were  0.7 million higher than in 2002 the majority of the rationalisation and reorganisation only
occurred in November and, therefore, the full impact of the benefits will be seen in 2004. No dividend is proposed for 2003. Page 3
Coupled with the efforts to reduce costs a major objective for the year was to conserve cash. This was successfully
achieved and the working capital reduced by  7.4 million, which generated the cash to cover the losses and reduce
borrowings by some  2.9 million.
Review of the Year
Low market demand and competitive pressures led to lower pricing during the year, a situation not helped by a weakening
US Dollar particularly in the second half of the year. Action was taken to reduce operating costs further, including another
redundancy programme in November, taking the workforce down to 150 worldwide.
Further action was also taken to improve operating efficiency. Additionally, in October 2003, Mutsuo Mukuda was
appointed Vice Chairman and Acting Chief Executive. Mutsuo, who has been associated with the business since 1993,
brings with him a vast experience of managing business and new ideas for helping to return the business to profitability.
Those ideas are already being implemented and new savings are being made. Mutsuo's experience of the market is also
helping to enhance STS's sales capability, particularly in Asia. Furthermore, Andy McQuarrie's focus is now dedicated to
increasing sales in the North American business and David Haynes was appointed as Director of Sales for the rest of the
World in December.
Many of the new initiatives are financially driven and have led, as the results show, to significant reductions in stocks and
debtors. The results of these actions were that the Group generated cash during the year and reduced its indebtedness,
despite the losses. This was a tremendous achievement and the team responsible for this must be thanked.
I must also applaud the dedication and commitment of the whole STS team during the prolonged market downturn that
the business has experienced. It was been very tough for them all and they continue to rise to the challenges being met.
I must also thank our major shareholder SPP for its continuing commitment and faith in the business.
Ian Smith resigned from the Company in October 2003. Ian had been with the Company since 1998, first as Finance
Director and latterly as Chief Executive Officer. The Board recognises his contribution to the Company and wishes him
every success in his future career.
Some of the benefits of the cost reduction and productivity activities were delivered during the year and the gross margins,
excluding exceptional items, improved from 32.3% in 2002 to 37.2% in 2003 and this further benefit should flow through
into 2004. Overall, the operating costs have been reduced significantly, with employee numbers down by 90 and a
complete and continuous review of all overheads. These savings are in excess of  5 million annually and will, therefore,
materially benefit 2004.
New product investment continued strongly, with some  3.8 million spent on research and development and the  Pro-
Range' started to win new customers. In addition, further innovative solutions are being developed to help our customers
in today's highly competitive markets and to enable STS to remain a market leader.
STS continues to operate in a world of constant and rapid change. Our customers are setting us tough challenges and our
business is reacting quickly, and has been re-shaped to meet those demands and remains the leader in the niche MEMS
market. This is crucial to the Company's future and the progressive nature of our technologies. Mission and Values
Outlook
STS entered 2004 in a stronger position than at the start of 2003 with less debt, lower operating costs and a bigger forward
order book. For the future, growth in demand for the new MEMS based advanced packaging tools is expected to continue,
particularly for mobile telephones, although perhaps not linearly. The traditional MEMS markets continue to grow with
acceptance in a number of new applications. The photonics markets are expected to remain flat during 2004, but the
demand for digital data transmission continues to rise and, as a consequence, the markets for STS machines should
improve later in the year. Additionally, Wireless Systems demand is likely to increase during 2004, as third generation
networks are adopted and the existing over capacity in the supply industry is eroded. Nevertheless, trading conditions are
difficult and the order intake pattern witnessed in the last quarter of 2003 has so far not been sustained into the year to
date. As a result, trading in the first half of 2004 is expected to be better than the first half of 2003, but lower than the
second half of 2004 and debts may increase. As stated previously the demand for new product technology remains and
today STS continues to be one of the leading equipment suppliers in its markets and to be very well placed to benefit from
an economic upturn in any of the geographic and technology markets served.
Action to be taken 
Set out at the back of this document is a notice calling the Annual General Meeting of the Company together with a further
notice calling the Extraordinary General Meeting as required by section 142 of the Companies Act following a serious loss
of capital. Both meetings will be held at St Mellons Hotel, Cardiff on T uesday 25 May 2004 starting with the Annual General
Meeting and the Extraordinary General Meeting following on immediately after the closure of the first meeting.
A single Form of Proxy and reply, relating to both the Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meeting, is
enclosed for use by shareholders. You are asked to complete and sign it in accordance with the instructions printed
thereon and return it as soon as possible. In order to be valid for both the Annual General Meeting and the Extraordinary
General Meeting it must be received no later than 3pm on 23 May 2004. Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will
not prevent you from attending in person, if you so wish.
Nigel Randall
Chairman
Page 4