 4
Surgical Innovations Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.sigroupplc.com
I am delighted to report further progress for 
Surgical Innovations. Once again, the Group 
has achieved record sales and profit whilst 
implementing a restructuring as part of our 
strategy for future growth.
Group sales grew by 7% to  4,770,000 
(2006:  4,460,000). Importantly, sales within our 
core business of devices for Minimally Invasive 
Surgery (MIS) increased by 7% as the benefits 
of our USA Master Dealership with MGM Med Inc., 
marketing and selling under the name Surgical 
Innovations US Inc., have begun to have an 
impact on the Group.
Gross margins, which include licence and 
royalty income from Rolls-Royce for industrial 
applications and Cardinal Health for medical 
devices, rose to 50.2% (2006: 41.9%) for the year. 
Administrative expenses increased significantly as 
a consequence of the Group's policy of investing 
heavily in international development, training and 
product evaluations. This strategy, together with 
net interest receivable of  46,000, has delivered 
an increase in profit before tax of 5% to  731,000 
(2006:  696,000). A net tax credit of  34,000 results 
in retained profits of  765,000 (2006:  696,000).
The confidence we have in the future growth of the 
Group has led to a recent relocation of the business. 
I am pleased to report that we have consolidated 
our operations from five individual units totalling 
10,000 sq ft to one location of 32,000 sq ft, which 
we believe will lead to substantial operational benefits 
through improved working conditions. This is a major 
step change for the Group and the first relocation 
of the instrument business since trading commenced 
in 1992. This move is part of our strategy for growth, 
enabling management to deal effectively with the 
inevitable challenges to come as we continue to 
build our international presence.
Group structure
During the year the Group was reorganised into 
three separate trading companies:
n Surgical Innovations Limited - MIS devices 
n  CORE Precision Limited - surgical and 
industrial solutions for OEM partners
n  Haemocell Limited - Autologous Blood Products 
Dividing the Group into three distinct business 
operations with separate management structures 
enables specific focus to be given to each area 
of the business and I am delighted with the results 
each has achieved to date.
Master Dealerships
The Group promotes its devices through a 
combination of independent specialist dealers 
and OEM partners. T o simplify and provide clarity 
to the business, master dealer relationships have 
now been established in the Far East (ACP), 
Middle East (Tradevco) and the USA (Surgical 
Innovations US Inc.). By undertaking such a 
policy we are able to reduce administrative costs 
yet achieve sales coverage in many markets 
previously beyond the scope of the Group. Within 
the established European market we continue 
to develop our portfolio of specialist distribution 
partners and we have recently commenced 
trading relationships with distributors in several 
Eastern European countries where the need for 
cost effective devices is even more apparent.
Brand awareness 
In order to successfully grow the Group within the 
medical device sector, it is critical that we develop 
and promote our own portfolio of products under 
Surgical Innovations brand names. This policy will 
lead to an increased global profile, adding future value 
to the Group. Y elloPort  and Logic  are established 
brands and during the year substantial investment 
was made in both trademark and intellectual 
property protection to reinforce brand awareness. 
Chairman's statement
 ...with expanding markets and our 
burgeoning portfolio of products, the Group 
will return further sales growth during the 
current year. 
Summary of Chairman's statement
Once again, the Group achieved record sales and profit 
Group sales grew by 7% to  4,770,000 (2006:  4,460,000)
Strategy for growth: to develop instrumentation for the next generation 
of surgical techniques
Doug Liversidge CBE, Non-executive Chairman 5
Surgical Innovations Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.sigroupplc.com
YelloPort  Plus
During the year significant investment was made 
in developing YelloPort  Plus, a  resposable ' 
port access device that combines reusable main 
elements and disposable accessories. The product 
was launched to critical acclaim and initial success 
has already been seen in the USA, UK, South Africa 
and Belgium. 2008 should see further growth in 
sales of YelloPort  Plus as we roll out the product 
to our global dealer network and continue hospital 
evaluations in the USA. T o widen the application of 
YelloPort  Plus we are developing a new range of 
the product for obesity surgery and we expect this 
to be fully available for the second half of the year. 
Research and development 
and new products
One element of our strategy for growth is 
to create new devices to simplify current 
laparoscopic procedures and importantly to 
develop instrumentation for the next generation 
of surgical techniques, namely Single Incision 
Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS) and Natural Orifice 
Translumenal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES). 
By strengthening our surgical expertise with 
the appointment of Professor Mike McMahon 
to the Group Board and the establishment of 
a Clinical advisory board, we are well placed 
to achieve this objective. 
Employees
In order to develop new and innovative products 
and most importantly, to bring them to market 
quickly, we have recently recruited several talented 
designers to enhance our development teams 
in both Surgical Innovations Limited and 
CORE Precision Limited. As with any design-led 
business, staff expenditure is a significant investment 
and the placing of new shares in 2007 provides 
us with the resources to fund this important 
expansion of our core activities.
Placing
As highlighted in the Interim Statement in June 2007, 
the Group raised  4,000,000 before expenses 
through the placing of 114 million ordinary shares 
at 3.5p. The funds have been earmarked for our 
USA expansion and product development. Several 
licence opportunities have been brought to our 
attention and we are currently reviewing these 
for acceptability within our current strategy. 
The cash injection was important and, given today's 
financial climate, emphasises the importance of 
taking decisive action when such opportunities 
arise. The proceeds of the fundraising have now 
underpinned the prospects of the Group, supporting 
organic growth and enabling us to search out new 
product licensing and corporate opportunities. 
Board of Directors
I am delighted to welcome to the Board, Professor 
Mike McMahon, who was appointed in October 2007 
as Non-executive Clinical Director. Mike was a 
founder of Surgical Innovations Limited in 1992 
and, as one of the world's leading laparoscopic 
surgeons, he brings a vast wealth of experience 
to the Board. His immediate role is that of Chair 
of our newly created Clinical advisory board of 
eminent surgeons, which provides expertise in 
all the various disciplines of laparoscopic surgery. 
Outlook
We continue to deliver against our strategy for 
growth, in terms of results and innovative product 
development. New procedures in laparoscopic 
surgery continue to be developed leading to an 
inevitable and exciting increase in the size of our 
market across the globe. 
The growth in demand for laparoscopic obesity 
surgery in particular has been well publicised 
and our current and forthcoming product ranges 
position us favourably to exploit this trend. 
We are confident that with expanding markets and 
our burgeoning portfolio of products, the Group will 
return further sales growth during the current year.
The Board recognises that this growth alone may 
not itself return increased shareholder value and it 
is actively seeking to enhance that value through 
the purchase of new product licences, development 
of industrial applications for our patented medical 
technology and acquisition of companies with 
complementary products.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
all Group employees and my fellow Directors for 
their continuing support and dedication during a 
year in which challenges were successfully faced 
and overcome. 
Doug Liversidge CBE
Non-executive Chairman 
28 April 2008
 This is a major step change for the 
Group and the first relocation of the 
instrument business since trading 
commenced in 1992. 
New facilities
n Consolidation of operations will lead to substantial benefits Consolidation of operations will lead to substantial benefits
n New enlarged facility provides increased manufacturing capacity New enlarged facility provides increased manufacturing capacity
n The move is part of our strategy for international growth The move is part of our strategy for international growth