 4
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
A major new topside project with all pipework and vessels insulated and weatherproofed with UlvaShield destined for the Norwegian sector of the North Sea 5
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
Shareholders may recall that when we delivered our Annual Report and Accounts for the 
year ended 30th June 2007, just after we had acquired the Ulva brand on 29th November 
2007, I expressed the view and/or fervent hope that this important strategic acquisition 
would prove pivotal to the future of our Group with the expectation that it could have 
a transformational impact on our financial results. It is therefore gratifying to report to 
shareholders just short of three years after this acquisition that we are reporting for the year 
ended 30th June 2010 the most successful year in the Group's trading history notwithstanding 
that these results have been achieved against a background of deep economic recession in a 
number of the sectors in which we operate and that generally challenging market conditions 
continue to exist at this time without material signs of abatement.
The Group is today a highly focused provider of industrial engineering products operating 
within niche markets through highly respected brands to a discerning range of internationally 
based customers operating on a global basis in the Middle East, the UK, Continental Europe, 
Asia, Scandinavia and North America.
Our various management teams are very focused in these difficult market conditions in 
developing strong relationships and alliances with a growing range of customers based on 
improved levels of service and product quality as well as innovative solutions designed to 
ensure that our product is specified in future as the product of choice .
In the year to 30th June 2010 Group sales increased by 7.4% to  26.58m (2009 -  24.75m). 
Consistent with earlier years as a result of favourable sales mix and improved operating 
efficiencies on larger scale projects, margins advanced by 4.2% in line with the improvement 
recorded in 2009 of 4.3%. Operating profits before exceptional costs increased by 34.9% 
to  3.27m (2009 -  2.42m) whilst operating profits after exceptional costs and after 
amortisation of intangible assets under IFRS accounting increased by 25.3% to  2.66m 
(2009 -  2.12m).
Profits at the pre-tax stage increased by 39.3% to  2.27m (2009 -  1.63m) and represent 
a solid year of progress against a background of difficult economic market conditions where 
there has been little evidence of growth, a lack of optimism and a continuous stream of 
project delays, cancellations and postponements to which we refer below.
During the year further seeds have been planted in a number of Ulva's targeted international 
markets, where the gestation period to gain full product accreditation leading to specification 
by the oil and gas multinational companies can take a number of years. Considerable benefit 
is expected to accrue from our commitment to invest in these international territories where 
we believe top line sales can be driven in the future. It is early days in the globalisation of 
the Ulva brand and we are pleased with our progress to date but far from complacent given 
the significant growth potential which exists and the massive amount of work still to be 
undertaken. The DRC-Ulva alliance, representing the Polymer Membrane segment, is the 
cornerstone to our Group's future in terms of international expansion and our success in 
terms of growth in profits recorded, and cash generated bodes most encouragingly for the 
future. Y our attention is drawn to the Operational Review below which further amplifies our 
aspirations for the Ulva branded range of products. 
Corporate Review
Results
Alan Walker 6
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
Hylam IQ installation
Similar global ambitions exist within the Fullflow Group, representing the rainwater 
management segment, in terms of penetrating international markets where increasingly 
discerning customers recognise the value of a tailored approach when seeking solutions to 
the greater awareness of rainwater management. 
It has been a difficult year for Fullflow UK due in simple terms to the downturn in 
construction activity in the United Kingdom whereas in Europe the results achieved 
particularly by Fullflow Spain have been most welcome at a time of depression within 
the wider Spanish economic market. 
Caja Magica
Plasflow has sustained solid results without achieving the type of growth of which we 
know they are capable whilst at Fullflow France a solid performance was recorded once 
we addressed the leadership issues which have held this subsidiary in check for the last few 
years. The Fullflow brand is widely respected and routinely endorsed by some of the world's 
most famous architects in the guise of Lords Foster & Rogers. Their endorsement of the 
modern techniques used to dispose of water from large scale roofs has helped to identify 
customers in markets further afield who wish to benefit from improvements in technical 
development where climate changes have alerted many to the increased risks and demands 
placed on rainwater management systems when faced with torrential downpours of tropical 
proportions. This is a modern day feature of weather conditions worldwide - torrential rain. 
Epsilon
Euskadi 7
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
Monkseaton High School
The Fullflow team remain focused on product innovation and the development of techniques 
which will easily export into jurisdictions as widely spread as Oman, Qatar, New Zealand, 
Morocco, India and Singapore which we intend to serve through our newly established 
subsidiary Fullflow International Limited. We envisage the pace of international 
expansion of the Fullflow brand will gather pace through the internal establishment of an 
International Committee  and the external development of selected strategic alliances with 
local partners who have expertise in the areas of installation and access allowing Fullflow to 
concentrate on its design capability and the manufacture as well as distribution of outlets and 
associated products. 
Losses in Crescent, representing the metal staircases segment, have reduced year on year 
even though they continue to suffer the rigours of a construction market which has been to all 
intents and purposes closed for business . Progress has been made throughout the business 
from sales and marketing to production effectiveness but there remains much to do in terms 
of achieving installation improvements on a right first time  basis and to extracting much of the 
investment benefit contained within our Solid Works Design capability which is now functioning 
on line for the benefit of our in-house design team and our valued customers.
Spiral fire escape 8
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
Twin spiral fire escapes
Shareholders will recognise that one of the Board's key objectives has been the retirement 
of debt with a residual ambition to become debt free as a matter of priority. The capital 
restructuring to which we made reference last year has been completed and approved by the 
High Courts of Justice whereby we added to our issued Share Capital through a bonus issue 
(10 for 1) whilst also eliminating our Share Premium Account so as to enhance the Retained 
Earnings and Distributable Reserves thereby facilitating the payment of a dividend which is 
covered at least 4 times by current year earnings.
Debt has fallen to  4.09m (2009 -  6.73m) or by 39% during the year notwithstanding 
the fact that we took the opportunity to acquire the freehold of the Ulva factory on 
advantageous terms back in April 2010 for a consideration of a little less than  800,000 after 
associated costs and refurbishment. 
The Group's Statement of Financial Position grows ever stronger with net shareholders 
funds advancing to some  14.5m (2009 -  12.5m) a far cry from the highly geared 
Statement of Financial Position back in 2004/2005. It remains a key objective of the Board to 
continue to retire debt at every opportunity and our target is to be debt free on or around 
31st December 2011.
Hylam IQ installation
Borrowings 9
SWP Group PLC
Chairman's Statement
The strength of our results and a measure of the confidence with which your Board of 
Directors views the future of the Group, permits the recommendation of the payment 
of a maiden final dividend of 0.2p per share. This final dividend is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15th December 2010. Y our 
Board of Directors anticipates a progressive dividend policy in future years and is particularly 
pleased to be able to join the dividend list at this time.
Shareholders will realise that the Group has benefited from the utilisation of losses sustained 
in earlier years against profits recorded in the various businesses more recently. The tax 
charge of  591,000 (2009 -  37,000) represents current taxation due and payable of 
 108,000 whilst the balance of  483,000 equates to the release of the deferred tax asset 
created in earlier years in compliance with the provisions of IFRS accounting standards and as 
such does not fall to be paid in cash.
Earnings per share before the tax charge have increased to 1.14p (2009 as restated 0.84p) an 
increase of 35.5%. After tax and the amortisation of the deferred tax asset earnings per share 
have risen more modestly 
to 0.84p per share (2009 as 
restated 0.82p) an increase 
of 2.6%.
Syphonic Roof Drainage, Riverside Museum, Glasgow
Y our Board of Directors have every reason to be pleased with the results which have been 
achieved in the year to 30th June 2010. These have been recorded notwithstanding the harsh 
and difficult trading conditions which have been prevalent for the past two to three years. 
We are making significant progress in international markets in creating both demand for and 
increased levels of interest in both the Ulva and Fullflow brands which both enjoy enviable 
reputations at home and abroad. A difficulty which we have to take in our stride is the fact 
that a high proportion of sales to both Fullflow and Ulva are dependent upon product 
specification within large scale projects, the award and timing of which is not under our 
direct control. This makes budgeting and forecasting more difficult than in a normal trading 
environment where demand can be more easily assessed. The challenges which lie before us 
are considerable and we remain excited by the potential which our product offering appears 
to have on a global basis as and when the economic climate improves.
As a Group we have come a long way in a short period of time. We have built a highly 
profitable and cash generative Group from humble origins and our management remains 
dedicated to achieving sustainable growth given the momentum we have created these past 
two years. We view the future with considerable optimism. 
Alan Walker 
Chairman
Dividend
T axation
Earnings per share
Outlook