 Autoclenz Annual Report 2010
clearly a better class of service
06
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Chairman's Statement
Results
We are pleased to report that although the difficult areas 
highlighted in our interim report have continued as 
expected to impact our profitability, the overall results are 
creditable given the challenging market conditions and 
reflect the resilience of our core automotive business and 
our financial strength.
Underlying operating profit (before the amortisation of 
intangibles and share option related charges) was  1.29 
million (2009:  1.54 million). Interest charges at  0.1 million 
(2009:  0.2 million) continued to reduce sharply with lower 
debt levels resulting in underlying operating profit after 
interest of  1.2 million (2009:  1.36 million) and underlying 
earnings per share of 11.12 pence (2009: 12.53 pence). The 
adjusted earnings per share, applying a standard tax charge 
of 28% to the underlying operating profit after interest is 
8.32 pence (2009: 9.44 pence).
The accompanying Financial Review reconciles underlying 
profits as stated above with the statutory figures in the 
Consolidated Income Statement which show: operating 
profit  0.22 million (2009:  0.66 million), profit before tax 
 0.13 million (2009:  0.48 million), and basic earnings per 
share of 0.83 pence (2009: 4.03 pence).
 
Operating Review and Segmental Analysis
We continue to operate our activities in two distinct 
segments:
 	 Automotive Services (incorporating Autoclenz/
Pinnacle valeting, ac sMaR t, Ready t o Rent and 
MoveMents )
 	 Specialist Cleaning Services (incorporating React 
Rapid Response and React Property s ervices)
Automotive Services had a satisfactory year under the 
circumstances with increased sales and broadly maintained 
gross profit contribution. Specialist Cleaning 
Services however suffered a further decline in sales and 
a consequent reduction of some  0.2 million gross profit 
  accounting for most of the reduction in the Group's 
underlying operating profit for the year.
Automotive Services
Revenue increased by  2.54 million (11%) from  22.4 
million to  24.9 million continuing the trend of the first half 
year with gross profit maintained at  5.5 million. A good 
performance in a year in which both new and used car sales 
showed little year on year change. The increased sales 
revenue was achieved across all our services reflecting 
both better customer retention and more focussed sales 
and marketing activities. An important part of the revenue 
increase came from our new MoveMents business in the 
North of England and Scotland with annual sales value in 
excess of  1 million. We explained in our interim report that 
this planned addition to our hitherto largely southern based 
MoveMents business brought with it significant start-up 
and support costs and it was therefore loss making during 
2010. These losses together with the increased pressure 
generally on selling prices which is normal in a recession 
accounted for the reduction in percentage gross margin.
On a more positive note our MoveMents business secured 
business with a major Tyre and Exhaust provider to provide 
a Collection and Delivery service for its customers in 22 of 
its centres.
We can also report that we have renewed our contract for a 
three year period with our major Auction customer. This has 
been achieved at some margin reduction but is acceptable 
given the size of the business involved.
For 2011, the general economic outlook in the automotive 
sector continues to be challenging with forecasts of a small 
5% reduction in new car sales, following the ending of the 
scrappage scheme which boosted first half sales in 2010. 
The overall results are creditable given the challenging market 
conditions and reflect the resilience of our core automotive business 
and our financial strength. We are mildly encouraged by the on 
budget results for the first two months of 2011 and there is strong 
determination to put the setbacks of 2010 behind us and deliver 
improved profitability. 07
Autoclenz   clearly a better class of service
www.autoclenz.co.uk
Our Business
Our Performance
Our Governance Our Financials
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Our Business
Our Performance
Our Governance Our Financials
There are a number of significant contract renewals and 
tenders which we are actively working on, but our objective 
is to maintain the sales volumes we achieved in 2010 
whilst improving the mix of our business towards those 
customers who appreciate the value and economics of the 
premium service which we offer   the goal is to restore 
some of the gross margin loss we saw in 2010 and to think 
more radically about our fixed and variable cost base. In 
this respect we are pleased to report that the new northern 
MoveMents business has moved into marginal profitability 
during the first months of 2011 and whilst there are still 
improvements to make, it should not prove a drag on results 
as it did in 2010.
Specialist Cleaning 
We reported very fully in our interim report on the impact of 
public sector spending cuts and the other adverse factors 
which impacted the year and have led to a sales decline 
from  1.6 million to  1.4 million and a lower gross margin 
resulting in a gross profit reduction of  200,000.
We are now looking ahead and rebuilding this business with 
new enthusiasm and direction. Both React Rapid Response 
(the decontamination activities) and React Property 
Services (specialist cleaning for the local authority and 
affordable housing sectors) have new internally promoted 
management. There is new focus on forming longer term 
How do you differentiate yourselves from
your competitors?
Autoclenz offers a full dealercare service 
encompassing valeting, smart repairs, 
collection, and delivery of cars and 
premises cleaning at competitive rates, no 
competitor offers this range of services. 
Q A & Heading
Autoclenz Annual Report 2010
clearly a better class of service
08
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Chairman's Statement continued
partnerships with the leading FM providers and Housing 
Associations, better use of our large industry database, 
and a radical overhaul of our tendering and quotation 
processes, all of which have already brought us over 
 200,000 of new housing business on an annualised basis.
We are targeting modest growth in sales and profitability in 
what we hope should be the beginning of a transformational 
year for these activities. Despite the public sector cut-backs 
and uncertainties, we are serving large markets with many 
service opportunities for us; clarity of our product offerings 
and customer selection should help us rebuild a profitable 
business.
We continue to review a number of potentially attractive 
add-on acquisitions which could increase the size and 
stability of the Specialist Cleaning division and whose 
characteristics would be regularity of workflow and some 
barriers to entry.
Finance
Good cash-generation has continued and we are pleased to 
report that with net debt falling from  1.48 million to  0.75 
million we achieved our stated target of reducing year end 
debt below  1 million. Another important milestone has 
been reached since at the end of the year we repaid in full 
the  5 million five year term loan which had been drawn 
down in December 2005 at the time of the public flotation.
Despite the many challenging economic and industry 
conditions since then, Autoclenz Limited has consistently 
been profitable and has generated net cash of  5.1 million 
during this period after paying net dividends of  1.1 million; 
the accompanying Financial Review shows the history of 
this.
Further to the announcement made today by the Company 
(24 March 2011) relating to the Group's Preliminary Results 
for the year ended 31 December 2010, the proposed final 
dividend of 1.00 pence which is subject to Shareholder 
approval at its Annual General Meeting to be held on 
19 May 2011, will be paid on 1 June 2011 to Shareholders 
on the Register at 3 May 2011. The date shares become ex-
dividend is 27 April 2011.
Our legal appeal to the Supreme Court in the Belcher case 
is now expected to be heard in May 2011. We are continuing 
to make appropriate provision for legal costs, and will 
update Shareholders with any further developments as 
appropriate.
Our People
I would like to thank on behalf of Shareholders the 
management, staff and our many sub-contractors 
who deliver the high quality Autoclenz services to our 
customers, and a financial return to Shareholders. During 
the current year we are introducing development and 
training courses for senior management and executives. We 
are also proposing to issue a new tranche of share options 
under our existing EMI scheme to include a wider range of 
senior people who we believe are important to the future 
growth and success of the Company.
Outlook
We have indicated above in the operating review the key 
areas of focus for profit improvement in our two divisions. 
The achievement of these will not be easy in the current 
economic climate, we are mildly encouraged by the on 
budget results for the first two months of the year and there 
is strong determination at all levels to put the setbacks 
of 2010 behind us and deliver improved profitability. We 
will keep Shareholders informed appropriately as the year 
progresses.
James Leek
Non-Executive Chairman