  
4  | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report  
 
 
Introduction 
The Group's strategy is to deliver clinically proven 
formulations to the cosmetic and consumer markets which 
will enable Syntopix to gain early revenue streams whilst 
providing  ownable technologies' to our partners.  During the 
year, the Board is pleased to report that the Group has 
achieved increased revenues of  190,000 from  141,000 in 
2008 following entry into further commercial agreements.  
The Group continues to strengthen its relationships with 
potential partners and its key customers.  Following close 
control of overheads, operating costs have been reduced, 
resulting in a lower operating loss this year of  1,292,000 
(2008:  1,567,000). 
 
In April 2009, the Group signed its second 12 month 
exclusive evaluation agreement with a major consumer 
healthcare company in the field of oral healthcare.  The 
Group received an initial upfront payment at the 
commencement of this agreement and will receive further 
payments for any compounds chosen for additional 
evaluation. 
 
In July 2008, Syntopix entered into a joint development 
agreement with Procter & Gamble, the world's largest 
consumer products company.  Under this agreement, the 
Group will jointly investigate the use of its novel 
antimicrobial technology with the objective of improving the 
efficacy of one of Procter & Gamble's major brands. 
  
Markets and opportunities 
The Group's opportunities are principally in the areas of 
acne, oral hygiene and hair care targeting both the medicine 
and consumer healthcare markets.  
 
The prescription market for dermatological disease 
treatments is currently in excess of $11 billion, with the 
market for acne representing over $2.5 billion of these 
sales.   The medicated skin care market is worth an 
additional $10 billion with sales for acne treatments in 
excess of another $1 billion.  51% of those who suffer from 
acne do not seek medical help and the Group is therefore 
developing compounds suitable for exploitation within the 
cosmetic, over-the-counter and prescription medicine 
markets. 
 
Additionally, the Group believes there is a major global 
demand for antimicrobial compounds in the consumer 
healthcare market.  The oral hygiene market is worth over 
$24 billion per annum.  Statistics show that in the USA 
alone, around 74% of the population have an episode of 
gingivitis each year and the three leading brands of oral 
healthcare products each have annual sales in excess of $1 
billion.  Similarly the hair care market has global sales of 
$20 billion and statistics show that, for this market, 50% of 
the world's population have dandruff at some point each 
year. 
The Group is discovering and developing antimicrobial 
compounds for the treatment of these types of widespread 
conditions to take advantage of these large market 
opportunities.  
 
Strategy 
The global markets the Group has identified are significant 
but, due to the restrictive cost of discovering safe 
compounds, there has historically been a lack of innovation.  
In addition, many of the antimicrobial compounds presently 
in use are increasingly linked to concerns about 
environmental toxicity and/or bacterial resistance.   
 
Syntopix's approach is to identify and develop cost effective 
alternative compounds and methodologies which overcome 
these problems and which reduce the high risks and costs 
of early compound discovery.  At the same time, the Group 
aims to reduce the lead-time to market normally associated 
with conventional product development. 
 
The Group is discovering antimicrobial compounds and 
synergistic combinations of compounds that already have a 
history of use in man.  This reduces much of the risk 
associated with developing new compounds and speeds up 
the process of getting the compounds to market.  Therefore 
these types of compounds are an attractive commercial 
proposition for the Group's key customers and potential 
partners. 
 
The strategy therefore continues to focus upon leveraging 
the Group's antimicrobial compound library and intellectual 
property portfolio and expanding its opportunities into 
broader areas within dermatological and consumer 
healthcare markets. 
 
In order for the Group to fully progress the above strategy, 
the Directors of Syntopix believe that it is appropriate for the 
Group to seek further funding through an equity share issue 
and are confident that this can be successfully achieved in 
the near future. 
 
Product development 
During the year Syntopix has added selectively to its library 
of potential development candidates, which is now in excess 
of 2,200 compounds.  The Group has continued to use its 
screening process and has shown that approximately 30% 
of these compounds exhibit antimicrobial activity against the 
key organism which causes acne, Propionibacterium acnes. 
Additionally, the Group has expanded its screening 
programmes to include the identification of antimicrobial 
compounds for use in consumer healthcare applications 
including oral care, other wound care, body odour and 
fungal infections.  The Group is also using more 
sophisticated screening processes to assess the fitness-for-
purpose of candidate compounds for different applications.   
   
SYNTOPIX GROUP PLC  |  5 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report continued 
 
 
 
 
The Group now offers bespoke compound assessments for 
customers with specific requirements. 
 
Syntopix has made tremendous progress in moving its lead 
compounds from research into clinical development and has 
completed its second Phase II proof-of-concept human-use 
study in 70 subjects with acneic skin.  Two Syntopix 
preparations were investigated: SYN0126 in combination 
with (a) SYN0040, and (b) SYN0040 with SYN0854.  These 
compounds can be used in cosmetic or medicinal products.   
 
The study had positive (an existing marketed product) and 
negative (vehicle) controls and the products were used once 
a day for 8 weeks.  SYN0126 in the presence of SYN0040 
had a significant effect on both non-inflamed and total 
lesions after 2 weeks of treatment, which became highly 
significant after 8 weeks.  For both Syntopix treatments, 
almost 50% of the subjects had their spot count reduced by 
at least 33% after 8 weeks.  This level of efficacy, from 
compounds suitable for incorporation into cosmetic or over-
the-counter medicines, compares very favourably to 
prescription medicines used to treat acne.  
 
Additionally, the Group's proprietary laboratory screening 
techniques have identified a highly potent compound 
(SYN1113) that has great potential for the treatment of acne 
and because it is coloured green, and is a  natural' 
compound, it offers huge consumer appeal.  Plans are being 
prepared to test this compound in a human-use study in 
2010. 
 
Both of these opportunities are attracting considerable 
attention from major healthcare and skincare companies.  
 
Intellectual property 
The Group's intellectual property portfolio is critical for its 
success in licensing compounds and continues to grow and 
become more focused.  The Group adopts an ongoing filing 
process that has resulted in 22 core patents/applications.  
Of these, nine are granted in the UK, three are published 
applications and ten are awaiting publication.  Overall the 
Group's portfolio has a total of 41 patents/applications 
across key international territories. Each case in the portfolio 
is continually evaluated for commercial opportunity. 
 
  
 
Outlook 
The Group is committed to developing safe and effective 
products for use in both medicinal and consumer healthcare 
markets by continuing to seek new uses for its antimicrobial 
expertise and through expansion of the commercial potential 
of its compounds.  Syntopix's strategy and approach to 
identifying new antimicrobial compounds has creating 
innovative opportunities for its commercial partners in the 
global consumer healthcare market.  
  
The Group continues to invest in its discovery pipeline to 
fuel its development programmes and take the most 
promising candidates into human use studies.  To maximise 
the value of the Group's portfolio, it now needs to develop 
the most promising compounds into product candidates.  
The Board is very confident that these studies will deliver 
data that will convince potential partners that Syntopix's 
compounds have a commercial future in the treatment of 
dermatological and consumer healthcare conditions.  The 
funds raised from the planned issue of equity during the 
current period will be used to enable the Group to fulfil and 
deliver the strategy. 
 
Additionally, the agreements that have been signed with two 
of the world's largest consumer healthcare companies and 
the discussions we are having with other potential licensees, 
validates the Group's belief that the antimicrobial 
compounds within its portfolio have a broad range of 
applications in these very large commercial markets.  The 
Group enters the current year with a cash balance of 
 894,000 and is extremely optimistic that further beneficial 
commercial opportunities will result from the Syntopix 
programmes over the next 12 months. 
 
 
 
Rod Adams, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
Stephen Jones, Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
7 January 2010 