 Chairman's Statement
2
Tadpole Technology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003
Introduction
During the financial year 2003, fundamental changes
took place in the scope of the Group's activities and in
its senior management. The sale of the hardware
division in December 2002 completed the
transformation of the Group's business activities from
hardware to software.
The trading results for the year ended 30 September
2003, together with comparatives for the prior year,
disclose separately the performance of the continuing
operations  (Cartesia and Endeavors) and the
discontinued operations  (Tadpole Hardware). In
Note 2 to the Financial Statements we have also
presented a segmental analysis of the continuing
operations to give shareholders a better understanding
of the structure of the Group's activities and the
performance of its two software businesses.
Continuing operations 
Turnover in the software businesses doubled from
 1.8 million in 2002 to  3.6 million in 2003 and the
operating loss more than halved from  6.9 million to
 3.3 million. The second half results showed a
particularly strong improvement due to substantial
revenue growth and a move into profitability by
Cartesia, and to cost reductions by Endeavors. The
operating loss in the second half of 2003 was
 0.7 million compared with a loss of  4.3 million in the
same period last year. 
Endeavors
In the Interim Statement we indicated that the focus for
the second half would be to develop sales traction for
Endeavors' products and to keep cash burn tightly
under control. 
Endeavors recorded an operating loss for the year of
 3.3 million compared with  4.8 million in 2002. The
second half benefited from a tightened control over
costs and the operating loss in the second half was
reduced to  1.4 million from  2.5 million in the same
period last year. 
Endeavors' AppExpress product is now positioned for
broad customer deployment from 2004 onwards.
AppExpress securely streams Windows-based
applications from central servers to desktops and
provides enterprises with an effective solution to
manage and audit their licensing agreements with
software vendors. It eliminates software piracy, and
enables fully functional evaluation trialware to be
streamed to prospective customers via the Internet. 
We believe that this product offers growth
opportunities for the future and Endeavors' marketing
strategy has been focused accordingly. This focus led to
Endeavors being certified for Windows Server 2003 and
obtaining Microsoft Gold Partner status, the only
streaming technology company to receive this accolade.
Endeavors' business strategy is to focus AppExpress on
two key markets, as a web-based delivery mechanism
for software vendors' trialware programs, and as a new
business solution for enterprises to stream and manage
software applications across their networks.
In the trialware market, Endeavors achieved early
success in 2003 in streaming Autodesk's AutoCAD
2004 trialware to prospects. The returns generated for
Autodesk prompted Microsoft and Intel to publish case
studies on the AppExpress solution. Since the year-end,
Autodesk has extended the use of AppExpress to two
other products. We are confident that Autodesk's use of
AppExpress will be extended to other software lines
during the coming year and that other independent
software vendors will follow Autodesk's new software
delivery business model.
In the enterprise market, Endeavors' business strategy
leverages both direct and indirect sales channels. Early
in 2003, Endeavors entered into a UK distribution
agreement with Centia. During the first half of the
current financial year, we expect to announce further
distribution agreements covering more territories and
to close our first sales contracts through both channels. 
Cartesia
In the Interim Statement we indicated that Cartesia
would achieve a substantial increase in revenues during
the second half of the financial year compared with the
first half and that the division would be profitable.
2. Front [c88885]  23/12/03  11:12  Page 2 3
Turnover almost doubled from  1.8 million in 2002 to
 3.5 million in 2003 and the division recorded an
operating profit of  0.7 million compared with a loss of
 0.8 million in 2002. The second half performance was
particularly strong with a turnover of  2.5 million
(2002:  0.8 million) and an operating profit of
 1.0 million (2002: Loss  0.3 million). 
Last year we commenced a strategic investment
programme, which continued through 2003, to develop
a range of products based on ESRI technology,
leveraging our experience in mobile GIS. The results of
this investment began to be realised during the year
with the launch of the GO!Sync  products and other
ESRI-based modules and performance tools, which
were sold to a number of clients. 
Of particular note is the contract with Ordnance Survey
to supply its next generation of field-based software.
Cartesia successfully delivered the first phase of this
project during the year and anticipates providing
further services to Ordnance Survey during the coming
twelve months. Cartesia will also deliver to Ordnance
Survey Northern Ireland in conjunction with ESRI
(UK). 
We continued to develop and deploy our traditional
Cartesia and ConicGIS products. Contract extensions
were delivered to a number of clients including Three
Valleys Water, United Utilities, Scottish Power and
Bournemouth and West Hampshire Water.
Market conditions generally have been sluggish, with
companies deferring IT investment decisions. However,
we are heartened by the growing number of clients in
the USA that are adopting our ESRI-based products
including City of Burbank Water and Power, County of
Glynn and King County. We also completed the
delivery to Consumer's Energy, believed to be one of the
largest deployments of ArcPad technology in the world
to date. Business partnerships were forged with a
number of companies including Leica Geosystems,
Miner and Miner, Power Engineers and Azteca.
We enter Financial Year 2004 with a healthy sales order
book and ready to exploit further the investments made
in our ESRI-based products. We see signs of an
improvement in the business climate during the coming
year and anticipate sales growth, particularly in the
USA, both in our established Utility sector and in other
key target markets, particularly State and Local
Government. 
Discontinued operations
The operating results of the hardware division cover the
period from 1 October 2002 to the date of its disposal
on 23 December 2002. During this period the division
incurred an operating loss of  0.9 million. The disposal
of the hardware division resulted in a loss of
 5.4 million, which includes the early settlement of
promissory notes as described below and the write back
of goodwill previously written off to reserves in 1998
on the acquisition of RDI Inc.
Assets and financing
Part of the consideration for the sale of the hardware
business was the issue by the purchaser, Tadpole
Computer, Inc. (an unrelated third party), of two
subordinated promissory notes totalling $8.5 million,
which were due for payment in December 2007.
Under the terms of a supplemental agreement signed on
25 June 2003, the Company received an immediate
cash payment of $2.0 million in part settlement of the
notes. In addition, the agreement provides for a further
$0.75 million cash to be paid in three equal instalments
of $0.25 million in June 2005, 2006 and 2007, subject
to Tadpole Computer, Inc. achieving a defined level of
profitability at these milestone dates. The agreement
resulted in the need to make a provision of  4.1 million
($6.5 million) against the book value of the promissory
notes. The Company has taken no recognition of the
$0.75 million due under the earn outs.
In view of the current stage of the Group's development
and the potential returns from continued investment in
this critical stage of Endeavors' growth, we concluded
that it would be in shareholders' best interests to receive
value for the Notes this year instead of when they
become due in four and a half years' time. In reaching
this decision, we took into account the state of the
market in UNIX products worldwide, which is facing
increasing competition, and the fact that the receipt of
$2.0 million cash would reduce the amount of further
Chairman's Statement (continued)
2. Front [c88885]  23/12/03  11:12  Page 3 Chairman's Statement (continued)
4
Tadpole Technology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003
draw downs against the GEM equity credit line of
 10 million, which expires in January 2004.
In the Interim Statement we advised shareholders that
further use of the GEM facility could not be ruled out.
This month, December 2003, we issued shares for
 0.7 million, bringing the total draw downs against this
facility to  5.7 million. 
Board changes
Graham Brown, who served as president of the
hardware division, resigned as a director in January
2003 following the disposal of this division. In March
2003, Bernard Hulme resigned as a director and group
chief executive. 
Outlook
We are encouraged by a growth in customer prospects
compared with last year during which potential
customers in our target markets showed little appetite
for investment in information technology. We are
engaged with a number of prospects that should, over
the coming year, give us the opportunity to deliver
increasing sales revenues for the Group.
Endeavors is beginning to show evidence of market
traction and our confidence in the longer term
prospects for this business is increasing. The challenge
for Endeavors is to develop sustainable revenue growth
from its existing and targeted business partnerships.
Cartesia is expected to deliver a further increase in
revenues during 2004, in part underpinned by the
contract with Ordnance Survey. The challenge for
Cartesia is to develop business in its other target
vertical markets in order to sustain sales and profit
growth beyond 2004. Successful exploitation of these
target markets will, however, require an increased
investment in sales and marketing. 
We expect a further improvement in the Group's
trading performance during 2004.
David Lee
Chairman
16 December 2003
2. Front [c88885]  23/12/03  11:12  Page 4