 2 Chairman's Statement
Sector Consolidation The Adult Gaming
Centre AGC  market is populated by
a handful of larger established players,
together with many smaller privately run
operations. RAL was the largest pure AGC
business, trading under the Quicksilver 
brand and operating from 1 27 high street
sites, with over 6,000 gaming machines
spread across the UK. RAL gave us an
excellent base from which to pursue our
consolidation strategy. Recognising the
increasing interest in interactive online
gaming, the management team have
developed a presence in this area through
Cyberslotz , which is making good
progress from a relatively small base.
We believe that the AGC market is ripe for
consolidation as the next largest players
have only an estimated 1 0% and 6% of 
the market respectively, with many smaller
businesses comprising the rest of the
market. We believe that further
consolidation opportunities will arise as 
we approach a more tightly regulated
environment. The 2005 Gambling Act is
increasing the burden on many smaller
market competitors, leading some to
explore a disposal of their businesses.
T alarius with its economies of scale, staff
incentivisation programme and tight
controls is able to offer a supportive
framework and the opportunity to integrate
such businesses within a larger group.
Since 1 June 2005 the team has
completed three further transactions:
Leisure Promotions on 7 July 2005 for
 1 1m, Blackheath on 7 November 2005
for  20m and post the year-end Leisurama
on 2 March 2006 for  1 2m.
All of the sites have been or will be 
re-branded as Quicksilver by the end
of July 2006. Our estate now comprises 
1 83 units with nearly 1 0,000 machines.
Debut on AIM On 4 April 2005 T alarius
commenced trading on AIM with the
objective of acquiring a well managed,
cash generating business in a sector
capable of consolidation, where the
Board's city and business experience
could assist in managing the development
of the business. As proposed at the time of
the Company's flotation, the initial focus
was on the UK high street gaming sector.
This culminated in the acquisition of RAL
Holdings Ltd (RAL  ) on 1 June 2005,
which delivered a strong business with an
experienced management team headed
by Nick Harding, who was appointed as
Group Chief Executive.
The strategy has been to acquire one
or more businesses that are suitably
positioned to take advantage of growth
opportunities provided by consolidation of
the fragmented high street gaming market
in the UK and Europe. The Directors have
initially focused on the UK because we
believe there is increasing convergence
among the high street gaming segments.
This provides opportunities to create
broader integration between gaming
offerings, including slot machine lounges,
licensed betting shops and bingo clubs.
We believe that the development of
gaming machine estates is a key driver
of profitability across these offerings.
We also believe there are opportunities
for organic growth through a degree of
green field site development. 
The Board Nick Harding was appointed
Chief Executive of T alarius on 1 June 2005.
I have known Nick and his team for many
years and he has over 25 years of sector
expertise. We were also pleased to
welcome Andy Hall to our Board as
Finance Director. Andy has over 20 years
of quoted company experience within the
high street retail and leisure sectors. On
20 September 2005 Ben Shaw stepped
down as a Non-Executive Director and
Mark Watts was appointed. Mark has
extensive commercial and relevant
financial experience. T ogether with the
property expertise of Robert Ware, one
of our other Non-Executive Directors, we
have a Board with the experience to build
a strong business going forward.
David Williams Chairman
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 2 3 Annual Report 2005
Regulation 2005 was a watershed for the
UK Gaming sector with the final passing of
the Gambling Act 2005. The debate around
the Act dragged on for over three years but
the final structure and draft of the Act was
acceptable to the vast majority of UK
operators and certainly to those of us
operating in the high street gaming market.
Some of the larger foreign casino operators
were disappointed that the UK market for
casinos is going to be managed and
regulated more tightly than they anticipated.
T alarius has established a compliance
committee that meets regularly and
reviews all new legislation and regulation
in order to amend business strategy and
tactics as appropriate. This committee is
chaired by Nick Harding and includes
Andy Hall and one of our Non-Executive
Directors, Mark Watts.
Investors will be aware that Nick is
currently Vice President of the UK coin-
operated users trade association (BACT A)
and sits on the committee that liaises
between the government and the gaming
industry. He is also a trustee of the
 Responsibility in Gambling T rust' and an
advisor to the problem gambling support
charity, GamCare. These various positions
enable him to ensure that T alarius is fully
aware of any proposed changes to
regulation in the UK and has an input to the
way the new Gambling Act is interpreted
and in what form it is ultimately introduced.
The ban on smoking in public places,
scheduled for introduction in mid-2007 ,
also represents short-term uncertainty 
for our business. However, we will have 
an early trial of the ban in the form of the
introduction of a similar ban in Scotland,
where we have 1 0 sites, effective from 26
March. We will trial a number of measures
to cater for our customers who smoke
whilst complying with the new law, such 
as  al fresco' smoking areas to the rear of 
a number of our properties. We believe 
the smoking ban may also represent an
opportunity for T alarius, because only 22%
of the UK adult population smokes and
becoming smoke free should encourage
more non-smokers into our sites.
We believe that further consolidation
opportunities will arise as we approach 
a more tightly regulated environment.
Shareholders We were pleased to
welcome T attersall's as a major shareholder
of the Company when they bought a
1 0. 1% stake on 27 November 2005.
T attersall's is one of Australia's major
leisure and gaming businesses with a
market value in excess of A$ 2 billion.
We recently raised  9 million via a placing
of six million shares at a price of 1 50
pence per share on 27 January 2006.
This takes our number of shares in issue
to 43.9 million.
The Company keeps its dividend policy
under review. We continue to pursue our
strategy of identifying and completing
acquisitions that will deliver enhanced
earnings for our Group, whilst remaining
mindful of the desire to make appropriate
returns to shareholders.
Outlook I am pleased to report that current
trading continues to be strong with AGC
like-for-like sales growth in the 1 0 weeks
to 1 1 March 2006 above the 9% increase
reported for the second half of last 
year. This reflects the strength of the
management and Company structure
in ensuring the successful and speedy
integration of our acquisitions together
with the benefit of the strategy put in place
by your Board for the underlying business.
In addition to the acquisitions, plans are
also on track for a potential eight green
field sites to be opened in 2006.
We believe the current fragmented nature
of the UK high street gaming market,
convergence between gaming offerings
both in the UK and Europe and the
strength of our gaming machine estate
both in terms of scale and quality will
continue to provide further opportunities
in the UK and European high street
gaming markets.
I would like to congratulate and thank 
all our staff, and their central back-up
teams, who continue to provide the 
best customer service and the most
entertaining environment in each of 
our centres.
David Williams
Chairman
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 3 4 At a Glance
All acquisitions will be rebranded 
as Quicksilver by July 2006. 
We design, build and operate 
all our own software. 
Adult Gaming Centres Interactive
1 83 SITES
1 ,000 EMPL O YEES
1 0,000 MA CHINES
1 00,000 MEMBERS
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 4 5 Annual Report 2005
Where we operate
1 83 sites based in1 65 towns and cities.
Industry snapshot
*
September
A report by the Henley Centre supports 
the argument for a rise in stakes and 
prizes, as it predicts that gaming machine
manufacturers will lay-off up to 20% of
employees and experience an 1 8% drop 
in profits. Staff from T alarius plc hand over 
a cheque for  1 6,500 to Linda Lindsay 
of children's charity CHIPS.
October
Industry media highlight T alarius' success
story as interim results show a six per cent
rise in profits. T alarius underlines Section 1 6
policy, stating that it will not purchase from
manufacturers that fail to comply with
Gambling Commission rules.
November
T alarius continue on the acquisition trail with
the  20m purchase of Blackheath Leisure.
The Quicksilver brand of AGC's moves 
to the top of the table with a 1 7% market
share. Nick Harding is quoted as being
 flattered' by news that Australian gaming
giant T attersalls has purchased a ten 
per cent share in T alarius.
December
Industry breathes a sigh of relief as
Chancellor Gordon Brown announces 
that a gross profits tax will not be applied 
to gaming machines under the 2005
Gambling Act. Section 1 6/2 1 machines
now come under the scope of VA T .
January
T alarius outlines plans to cater for smokers
and non-smokers in its Scottish outlets as
total ban on tobacco smoke gets closer.
Around 25,000 buyers attend the A TEI trade
exhibition at London's Earls Court. T alarius
confirms a 9% increase in sales for the
second half of 2005.
February
T alarius raises  9m to help finance
acquisition trail. Parliament gives the green
light to a ban on smoking in public places in
England and Wales in Summer 2007 .
March
T alarius purchases the Leisurama business
for  1 2m. The total number of AGCs in the
Group rises to 1 83.
*Extracts from the T alarius Leader staff magazine Milton Keynes head office
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 5