 14 TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2009 Operating Environment
The Malaysian economy weakened in 2008 with real gross domestic product (GDP ) growth dropping to 
4.6% from 6.3% in 2007 as a result of lower exports and a slowdown in the manufacturing sector. 
The economic turmoil also affected most of the other regions in which the Group operates. Germany 
registered a 1.3% growth in 2008 against 2.5% in the preceding year, signalling the extent to which the 
Eurozone had been impacted. Bangladesh experienced a decline in GDP growth, posting 6.2% against 6.6% 
in 2007. Egypt saw a modest 0.1% increase in GDP growth to 7.2%.
Financial Performance
The current year marks the thirteenth consecutive year in which Tanjong's revenue has grown. I am pleased 
to report that Group revenue rose by 36% to RM3,694 million from RM2,722 million the year before. Group 
operating profi t also increased, rising by 14% to RM1,119 million against RM978 million the year before. 
Improved contributions from our Power Generation, Leisure and Property Investment segments, all led to the 
increase in Group operating profi t.
In the Power Generation segment, the successful integration of Globeleq's power plant assets resulted in a 
substantial 47% increase in revenue to RM2,718 million from RM1,844 million. A RM604 million contribution 
from the Globeleq plants and increased energy billings from the Malaysian power plants contributed to this 
enhanced performance. 
However, despite the higher revenue contribution, Power Generation's operating profi t increased by only 
RM19 million to RM794 million. This is due to the accrual of a one-off RM85 million contribution to the 
Malaysian Government (in lieu of the windfall profi t levy on Malaysian power plants) and RM51 million 
relating to business and corporate development costs. 
In the Gaming segment, Numbers Forecast Totalisator (NFO ) gross sales proceeds decreased marginally 
by 2% to RM1,990 million from RM2,026 million despite six less draws being conducted. As a result of 
the reduced number of draws as well as higher losses recorded by the Racing Totalisator (RTO ) business, 
operating profi t dropped by RM19 million to RM210 million from RM229 million previously. 
The Leisure segment reported an improved performance with Tropical Islands continuing to show good 
progress. Leisure registered a 102% increase in revenue from RM103 million to RM208 million, which led to 
a 51% reduction in operating losses from RM59 million to RM29 million. Higher visitor arrivals and average 
spend at Tropical Islands, as well as the inclusion of the results of TGV Cinemas Sdn Bhd (which became 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group on 31 July 2008) were the main contributors to the improved 
results.  
The Property Investment segment registered a 6% increase in revenue to RM53 million due to higher average 
rental yields from renewed tenancies. Operating profi t rose from RM43 million to RM142 million, due mainly 
to the inclusion of a RM100 million fair value gain arising from an independent valuation of Menara Maxis 
in accordance with International Accounting Standard (IAS ) 40 - Investment Property.
Included in Group fi nance costs of RM534 million are debt refi nancing costs of RM141 million relating to 
the refi nancing of the Group's debt in respect of its two Egyptian power subsidiaries. The refi nancing costs 
have been expensed in compliance with IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The 
refi nancing is expected to yield a net fi nancial benefi t with an estimated present value of RM163 million, 
over the tenure of the loan.
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report another year of encouraging results for the Tanjong 
Group. Despite a sharp deterioration in global economic conditions in 
the latter part of 2008, the Group remained profi table due to the strong 
performance of its core business segments during the fi nancial year ended 
31 January 2009 (the current year ).
15 TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2009 Earnings Per Share & Dividends
Despite a decrease in Tanjong's net earnings per share from 137.5 sen in the preceding year to 115.0 sen this year, 
your Board has maintained the dividend payout for the current year. This is a refl ection of the Group's confi dence in the 
strength of its underlying cash fl ows.
Your Board declared four gross interim dividends of 17.5 sen each, totalling 70 sen in the current year, and is 
recommending a fi nal gross dividend of 20 sen per share less Malaysian income tax at 25%; resulting in a total gross 
dividend of 90 sen per share for the year. If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the 
total net dividend for the year will amount to 67.5 sen per share compared to 66.8 sen per share in the previous year. 
The Group has adopted a progressive dividend policy that seeks to achieve a balance between long-term capital growth 
and immediate cash returns to shareholders. As such, it will maintain an attractive payout ratio, while conserving 
adequate funds to enable us to pursue new investment opportunities vital to our long-term growth.
Signifi cant Corporate Developments 
Acquisition of TGV Cinemas Sdn Bhd (TGV )
At the end of July 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in TGV from Golden Harvest 
Cinemas Holding Limited for approximately RM40 million, thus making TGV a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tanjong. 
With full corporate and management control, we are now well-positioned to execute our plans to improve TGV's service 
quality and operational effi ciency as well as explore expansion opportunities in the cinema business.
Divestment of Broadcasting Assets
In March 2008, the Group made a timely disposal of its investment in Macquarie UK Broadcast Holdings Ltd and 
Macquarie UK Broadcast Services Plc for  37 million (RM231.9 million). The sale realised a net gain of some RM62 
million.
Corporate Governance
T anjong remains committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance in all our business undertakings. 
By acting responsibly we are increasing shareholder value over the long-term. The Group's Statement on Corporate 
Governance (set out in pages 30 to 35) outlines the underlying governance framework and best practices that are in 
place to help enhance long-term shareholder value.
In its 2008 Corporate Governance Polls, Asiamoney ranked Tanjong No. 1 in Malaysia for Best Investor Relations, while 
Tanjong was ranked No. 2 in Malaysia for Overall Best Corporate Governance. Tanjong was also cited by the IR Magazine 
as being one of the top three Malaysian companies carrying out good investor relations practices in Singapore. 
Corporate Responsibility
The Group recognises the importance of fulfi lling its obligations towards its stakeholders in order to ensure the 
sustainability of its businesses. In addition, T anjong remains committed to adopting responsible and sustainable practices 
that impact positively upon its shareholders and employees, as well as the environment and the communities it operates 
in.
In the current year, Tanjong undertook various corporate responsibility programmes in the areas of the community, 
workplace and the environment. We elevated standards of living and the quality of life of communities by donating 
some RM22.3 million for educational, social welfare, sports, health and cultural pursuits. We promoted healthy and 
safe working conditions in the workplace, implemented initiatives to ensure the well-being of our employees as well 
as adopted responsible environmental practices. More details on Tanjong's initiatives in these areas are provided in the 
Group's Corporate Responsibility Statement in pages 28 and 29.
Chairman's Statement (continued)
16 TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2009 Outlook
The various countries in which the Group operates are expected to be affected by the current global recession. 
Recognising the attendant uncertainties, the Group will adopt a cautious view of opportunities that may arise. It will 
be mindful of the signifi cant change in traditional business models when executing its growth strategies over the next 
few years. 
In the Power Generation segment, the Group will benefi t from a reduction in borrowing costs from the debt refi nancing 
exercise that was completed last year. Future investments in this sector will depend on the availability of funding on 
acceptable terms. In Malaysia, our business will depend on the outcome of measures taken by the Malaysian Government 
to restructure the Power sector.   
The prospects of the Gaming segment will depend on the impact of prevailing economic conditions upon discretionary 
spending on gaming products and services. The Group will continue to invest in branding and technology to enhance 
the appeal of its products, while taking steps to improve operating effi ciencies.
In the Leisure segment, Tropical Islands which has made signifi cant improvements to its operations, faces the challenge 
of providing suffi cient overnight accommodation to encourage even longer stays at the resort. Consequently, the 
Group had, in April 2009, entered into agreements with developers who will independently fi nance and construct 
accommodation that will enable additional visitors all year round. The current global fi nancial turmoil has nevertheless 
made it diffi cult to assess with absolute certainty the outcome of the developers' efforts to fi nance, construct and 
sell vacation homes. The Group will therefore continually evaluate the appropriateness of the carrying value of its 
investment in Tropical Islands in the light of the aforesaid uncertainties. 
The ongoing crisis in the fi nancial markets and dramatically changed economic outlook also requires that we refi ne our 
business strategies and incorporate measures that will allow us to focus on our strengths. We will also make every effort 
to further increase operational effi ciency while positioning our core businesses for opportunistic growth.
Acknowledgements
Tanjong owes much of its success to its dedicated and talented team of managers and employees. On behalf of the 
Board, I wish to convey my utmost gratitude to these individuals and ask that they continue giving their best in all that 
they do. I also wish to extend my deepest appreciation to our regulators, customers, business partners and investors for 
their steadfast support. 
My sincere appreciation to my colleagues on the Board for their valuable insights and counsel in taking Tanjong forward 
this past one year. While the new fi nancial year will undoubtedly bring with it many new challenges and opportunities, 
rest assured that your Board will make every effort to mitigate risks and embrace opportunities, while creating and 
building shareholder value.
DATO' ROBERT CHEIM
Chairman
Kuala Lumpur
6 May 2009
Chairman's Statement (continued)
17 TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2009