 Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report that Tanjong has 
been able to deliver record earnings for 
the fi nancial year ended 31 January 2010 
despite the challenges of a notably diffi cult 
global economic environment. All our 
business segments turned in improved 
top-line results and this has enabled the 
Group to achieve revenue growth for the 
fourteenth consecutive year.
16
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010
16
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010 Operating Environment 
The Malaysian economy experienced a 1.7% contraction in 
2009 against a 4.6% GDP growth in the previous year.  
The widespread economic turbulence also adversely affected 
the other geographies in which the Group operates. Egypt 
registered a moderate decline in GDP growth, posting a 
growth of 4.7% against 7.2% in 2008. Bangladesh likewise 
saw a lower GDP growth of 5.9% against a 6.2% growth 
in the previous year. Germany's export-dependent economy 
recorded a 4.8% contraction, its deepest downturn to date 
in modern history, in comparison to a 1.2% growth in 2008.
Financial Performance 
The Group was able to maintain its growth momentum 
during the period under review, demonstrating its underlying 
strength and resilience in the face of very challenging 
economic conditions. Group revenue rose by 6% or RM204 
million from RM3,694 million to RM3,898 million for the 
fi nancial year ended 31 January 2010 (the current year ). 
Operating profi t similarly increased by 10% or RM108 million 
from RM1,119 million to RM1,227 million in the current year.
The Group continues to derive signifi cant returns from the 
strength of its portfolio of power generation assets. Revenue 
for the Power Generation segment increased by 3% from 
RM2,718 million to RM2,812 million in the current year, 
mainly due to improved contributions from Malaysian and 
Egyptian power plants. The operating profi t for this segment 
grew by 25% from RM804 million previously to RM1,006 
million on the back of increased revenue, lower plant 
maintenance, corporate and business development costs 
totalling RM114 million and the non-recurring RM85 million 
contribution (in lieu of the windfall profi t levy), that was 
made in the previous year.
For Gaming, gross sales proceeds from the Numbers Forecast 
Totalisator (NFO ) business increased slightly by 3% 
from RM1,990 million to RM2,053 million due to sixteen 
additional draws conducted in the current year. However, 
operating profi t for the Gaming segment reduced by RM41 
million from RM210 million to RM169 million, principally due 
to escalating Racing Totalisator (RTO ) operating expenses.
The Leisure segment continues to strengthen and is 
delivering improved results. As a result of higher visitor 
17
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010
17
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010 Chairman's Statement (continued)
arrivals and average spend at Tropical Islands, and with 
inclusion of the full year's contribution from TGV Cinemas 
Sdn Bhd; the Leisure segment posted a 48% or RM100 
million increase in revenue from RM208 million to RM308 
million. The segment's operating losses reduced signifi cantly 
by 72% from RM29 million to RM8 million in the current 
year.
Property Investment posted an 8% increase in revenue from 
RM53 million to RM57 million mainly on the back of higher 
average rental yields from renewed tenancies. Segmental 
operating profi t, at RM70 million, was however signifi cantly 
lower than the RM142 million operating profi t previously, 
due to the recording of a lower fair value gain of RM22 
million from the revaluation of Menara Maxis in the current 
year as compared to the RM100 million fair value gain 
reported in the previous year.
These encouraging developments culminated in the 
Group reporting a 16% increase in operating cash fl ows 
to RM1,481 million and an increase in cash and cash 
equivalents from RM1,203 million to RM1,536 million in the 
current year.
Earnings Per Share and Dividends
In line with the stronger overall performance, Tanjong's net 
earnings per share rose by 46% from 115.0 sen to 167.8 sen 
in the current year. 
Tanjong's dividend policy continues to seek a balance 
between providing immediate cash returns to shareholders 
and conserving funds critical to its long term growth. The 
Board has declared four gross interim dividends totalling 70 
sen in the current year, and is recommending a fi nal gross 
dividend of 30 sen per share before Malaysian income tax 
at 25%. This will result in a total gross dividend of RM1.00 
per share, an 11% increase over the previous year's gross 
dividend of 90 sen per share, and representing a gross 
payout ratio of 60%. The increased dividend quantum 
represents an improvement in the gross dividend yield from 
6.3% to 6.8% in the current year.
Corporate Governance
We consider our efforts in promoting good corporate 
governance as a source of competitive advantage as this 
enhances long term shareholder value and underscores 
the Group's standing and credibility in its dealings with its 
shareholders, government authorities and business partners. 
The Group's Statement on Corporate Governance (set out 
in pages 32 to 37) outlines the underlying governance 
framework and practices which are in place. 
The Group continues to be acknowledged for its dedication 
to good governance by institutional investors, investment 
research houses and the media. Asiamoney in its Best 
Corporate Governance Poll 2009, once again ranked Tanjong 
No. 1 in Malaysia for Best Investor Relations. Tanjong 
was ranked No. 2 in Malaysia for Overall Best Corporate 
Governance. Tanjong has also been recognised as one of 
Asia's leading corporates by virtue of its inclusion in the 
Corporate Governance Best of Asia 2010 awards. We are 
honoured by the recognition given and will strive to maintain 
the high standards that are expected of us.
Corporate Responsibility
The Group's obligation to ensure the sustainability of its 
businesses also extends to it implementing responsible 
and sustainable practices that impact positively on the 
environment and communities it operates in. 
In the current year, Tanjong continued to focus its efforts 
on elevating the standards of living and well-being 
of communities by donating nearly RM30 million for 
educational, welfare, sports, health and various other 
pursuits. The Group also continued to implement measures 
to ensure healthy and safe working conditions throughout 
the breadth of its operations, while undertaking activities 
that provided its employees a favourable work environment. 
On top of this, continuing measures have been taken 
to ensure Tanjong's power plants operate in a socially 
responsible and environmentally-friendly manner; even 
as other responsible environmental practices have been 
adopted throughout the organisation. Further details of the 
Group's corporate responsibility initiatives are outlined in 
pages 30 and 31 of the Group's Corporate Responsibility 
Statement.
Outlook
Although timely intervention by governments have averted a 
collapse of the global economy, economic recovery remains 
fragile and uneven. The Group thus recognises that it must 
tread forward carefully and be mindful of the need to 
assiduously make the most of emerging opportunities. It is 
imperative that we continue adapting our business strategies 
to the current environment and make every effort towards 
value creation by positioning our core businesses for both 
organic and opportunistic growth.
For Power Generation, improving economic conditions will 
make it more conducive for this segment's future growth. 
Having taken the opportunity to consolidate our position 
18
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010 in uncertain times, the Group is now well positioned to 
leverage on its strong growth track record. It will do so 
by judiciously pursuing development opportunities in the 
Middle East and North Africa, South Asia and Southeast Asia 
regions. On the Malaysian front, the Group supports the 
Malaysian Government's efforts to restructure the domestic 
power sector and looks forward to engaging with the 
relevant parties for our mutual benefi t.
In the Gaming segment, the Group will seek to widen its 
product offering consistent with its intention to compete 
more effectively on a level playing fi eld. We are also actively 
engaging with the relevant parties to reduce, to more 
acceptable levels, totalisator expenses in the RTO business 
which continue to adversely affect the results of the Gaming 
segment.
In Leisure, Tropical Islands is making satisfactory progress 
operationally and our efforts to ensure adequate overnight 
accommodation to encourage longer stays, including 
overnight stays, and higher levels of spend at the resort will 
be critical to its long-term sustainability. There also is scope in 
broadening the reach of TGV's existing cinema network and 
efforts to signifi cantly enhance its customer experience are 
currently under way.
Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my deepest 
appreciation to the dedicated and talented team of 
managers and employees who have been instrumental in 
addressing the challenges faced by the Group. I ask that 
they continue their commitment to perform to the best of 
their abilities. I also wish to thank our regulators, customers, 
business partners and investors for their unwavering support 
and cooperation. I am further indebted to my colleagues in 
the Board for their insights and counsel in steering Tanjong 
through the year's challenges. As we move on to a new 
decade, rest assured that your Board will leverage on the 
Group's resources and strengths to overcome all challenges 
and capitalise on the many opportunities that are gradually, 
but certainly, coming into view. 
DATO' ROBERT CHEIM
Chairman
Kuala Lumpur
6 May 2010
Chairman's Statement (continued)
19
TANJONG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY annual report & fi nancial statements 2010