 Page 1 
TANGIBAL GROUP PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2012 
 
 
Overview 
 
Your Board announces the Group's results for the financial year ended 30 June 2012.  The Group incurred a  
loss from operations of  1,109,979 after depreciation and impairment losses of  670,622 on turnover of 
 411,404 compared to losses from operations of  424,198 on turnover of  470,757 in the previous year.  
During the period the interactive digital out of home media market suffered continued challenging economic 
times as advertisers stayed with traditional and conservative advertising mediums.  While the Group's 
Tangibal Live operation was successful in increasing sales during the period primarily in the first half of the 
financial year, there was a significant decrease in interactive floor media sales during the year which was 
only partially offset by minimum revenue guarantees.  These revenue guarantees will come to an end during 
2013 and as a result the Board has decided to take one-off exceptional write-down of the Group's media 
technology assets of  237,178.  The Board has also decided to recognise the impairment of assets in its 
subsidiary Ridercam totalling  220,516, which has yet to become operational.  These impairment losses, 
together with the incurred depreciation in the year of  206,928 gave rise to a total of  664,622 of non-cash 
charges and resulted in a consolidated loss from operations of  1,109,979 for the year. 
 
During the year we installed new interactive digital six sheet  screens in cinema foyers.  These screens, 
which mimic the conventional cinema poster but also permit interactive campaigns, are seen as more 
traditional by advertisers and during the period we saw an increase in media sales from this new advertising 
medium.  We see continued investment in this advertising format during the current year. 
 
2012 has proved to be a challenging year for your Group but your Board believes it has weathered the storm, 
reduced costs and focussed the business on its developing screen network where we have seen the greatest 
increase in revenues and profits.  With a continued focus on increasing our digital screen networks coupled 
with its current average net screen yield; your Board is confident that 2013 will be more successful. 
 
 
Tangibal Media 
 
Tangibal Media's principal focus remains on developing interactive digital media networks worldwide in 
cinemas.  In the past two years we have gained significant insight into the developing interactive digital 
markets and the formats we have deployed.  Our existing formats of interactive floors and on-screen 
advertising have not performed as expected, primarily because the networks are still niche and do not offer 
an advertiser significant national coverage, therefore falling into a discretionary advertising category rather 
than an essential element of a brand's media mix.  To counter this, your Board took the decision during the 
year to manufacture and deploy a new media format called The Hub .  The Hub is an interactive (touch) 
screen on a stand that is placed in cinema foyers and which is often referred to as an interactive digital six 
sheet, a medium which is widely used by advertisers and can therefore be added into other digital six sheet 
campaigns in transport and roadside locations.  This decision has proved successful and we saw a steady 
increase in sales on our digital screen network throughout the year ended 30 June 2012 and which has 
continued to grow in the current financial year. 
 
In order to maximise the screen networks revenue potential Tangibal Media also signed up with a specialist 
out of home screen (six - sheet) media sales company called Primesight to work alongside our existing sales 
contractor Pearl and Dean.  Although our overall revenue share has reduced, we believe that our net yield 
and thus profits has increased as a result of this new partnership.   
 
/continued  Page 2 
TANGIBAL GROUP PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT (continued) 
 
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2012 
 
 
 
Tangibal Media continued 
 
Initially we deployed 20 screens and we have now increased our network to 35 screens.  In the current 
financial year we are looking to increase our network to 50 screens in the UK and we are actively looking to 
build networks in cinemas worldwide.  Major international brands have booked our screen network including 
Microsoft (twice), EA games, Armani, Sony, Lego, Lenovo, and Royal Caribbean to name a few.   
 
Tangibal Media will therefore focus its efforts on deploying screen networks going forward. 
 
 
 
Tangibal Live 
 
Entering into the current financial year Tangibal Live was still an early stage experiential agency business 
and although achieving significant wins in the early part of the year with the Pearl and Dean and Ambassador 
theatre network roll out of projection systems it became evident that the division would also struggle as 
advertising budgets were reduced.  Your Board took swift action and rationalised this element of the business 
as signs of the downturn took hold.  Recently and in the current financial year we have seen a slight upturn in 
this area and we have recently completed work for Madame Tussauds (Merlin Group) and for Coty, a major 
international retail marketing and promotions business.  Your Board continues to monitor the market and still 
believes that this business has significant potential, particularly in the retail sector.   
 
Your Board believes that the proposed acquisition of Infotech Digital described below and the new 
investment in the Group coupled with an improvement in advertising markets will lead to new business 
opportunities in this sales (hardware and software) service sector. 
 
 
Ridercam 
 
Delays and operational issues beyond the company's control meant that the Ridercam camera system at 
Knotts Berry Farm in partnership with Kodak has not yet commenced trading.  Initially Cedar Fair, the 
park's owner delayed in the installation of the Ridercam system as a result of coaster maintenance issues.  
When we were able to install the system we achieved very positive sales, however our cameras suffered 
vandalism which resulted in our decommissioning them for a period in order that we could manufacture 
more robust camera housings.  Following further support from our partner Kodak we are once again in the 
park and completing the installation which your Board believes will be live and selling DVDs by January 
2013. 
 
Your Board is now actively looking for new investors in this business alongside a potential trade sale.  Given 
the uncertain valuation that can be placed on Ridercam, due to ongoing operational delays and the fact that 
our partner Kodak is in Chapter 11, the Board has taken the decision to provide in full for the impairment of 
Ridercam's installed equipment and product development assets, which totalled  220,516 as at 30 June 2012. 
 
 
 
/continued  Page 3 
TANGIBAL GROUP PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT (continued) 
 
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2012 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Update  
 
The Company successfully upgraded its trading status on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from the Open 
Market to the Entry Standard following the Exchange's decision to close the First Quotation Board on 14 
December  2012.  This forced closure resulted in one-off costs for your company which saw corporate costs 
for the year total  160,185.  These were mainly incurred through the production of a Prospectus and advisory 
fees related to the upgrade.  Has this not been the case administrative expenses would have been significantly 
reduced as the Board took strong action during the year to reduce its overhead base. 
 
In July 2012, we announced that the Company was in discussions to make a significant acquisition and the 
Board has today agreed, subject to shareholder approval, to acquire Infotech Digital Limited and for shares 
which together with an investment of  3 million gross of expenses through a share placing with CTS Tandem 
Solar GmbH should enable the enlarged Group to exploit fully the opportunities of its growing out of home 
media networks in cinemas, malls, and other destination venues in the UK, India and the US.  If approved by 
the shareholders, the transaction is scheduled to complete on 14 January 2013. 
 
Your Board believes it has successfully navigated difficult economic times, created a new profitable revenue 
stream for the Group and successfully agreed a strategic, potentially earning enhancing acquisition 
accompanied by investment that will see the Group through its growth phase in 2013 and beyond.  The 
Directors believe that the commitment of  3 million of investment (conditional on the acquisition 
completing) will provide the Company with sufficient working capital and enable it to grow its interactive 
networks globally, creating a significant operator in Digital Out of Home media.  Your Board therefore 
believes that your Company is now in a good position to grow and deliver shareholder returns in the exciting 
and developing market of Digital Out of Home media. 
 
This will be my last statement to shareholders as Chairman as I will be resigning following completion of the 
acquisition of Infotech Digital Limited.  I would like to thank the Board for its support over the past years 
and wish the Company every success in future.   
 
 
 
 
 
J HALL  
Chairman    21 December 2012 
 