 Chairman's statement
Tate & Lyle reports a strong financial performance 
in the year to 31 March 2005. The growth in value 
added products, especially the strong performance of
SPLENDA
 
Sucralose, and the improvement in the quality
of our earnings together with our increased strategic focus
enable us to view the future with confidence. 
Results
Tate & Lyle has had a good year marked 
by our re-entry into the FTSE100 index after
a seven year absence. Both sales and 
profit before tax and exceptional items
increased, driven mainly by the successful
realignment of our SPLENDA
 
Sucralose
activities with McNeil Nutritionals effective
from April 2004.
Total sales increased to  3,342 million
(2004 -  3,167 million) and profit before tax,
exceptional items and amortisation was
 255 million, a 12% improvement on the
prior year (2004 -  227 million), after a
negative exchange impact of  12 million.
Diluted earnings per share before
exceptional items and amortisation for the
year to 31 March 2005 were up 12% at
38.0p (2004 - 33.9p), and after exceptional
items and amortisation were 29.4p (2004 -
32.6p). The return on net operating assets
improved, to 16.7%, exceeding the Group's
initial target of 15%.
The net charge for exceptional items of
 45 million includes the charge previously
reported of  55 million in respect of the
settlement of the high fructose corn syrup
class action suit in the US. Profit before tax
after exceptional items and amortisation was
 197 million (2004 -  224 million). 
After investment and capital expenditure
(including significant expenditure on
sucralose), net debt increased by  63 million
to  451 million. Free cash flow was 
 103 million (2004 -  62 million) and interest
cover improved further to 11.3 times (2004 -
9.3 times).
Dividend
In line with its progressive dividend policy,
the Board proposes an increase of 
0.6p (3.2%) in the total dividend for the 
year to 19.4p. This is covered 2.0 times 
by earnings before exceptional items and
amortisation. The proposed final dividend
of 13.7p will be due and payable on 
3 August 2005 to all shareholders on the
register at 8 July 2005.
Directors
The composition of the Board continues to
evolve with four non-executive directors
retiring during the year. Keith Hopkins and
Mary Jo Jacobi retired on 29 July 2004
following nine and five years service
respectively. Larry Pillard retired on 
31 December 2004 after eleven years
service, nine of which he served as an
executive director and two as a non-
executive director. David Fish stepped 
down from the Board on 30 September
2004 due to pressure of other commitments.
04 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 The Board thanks each of them for their
contribution to the development of the
Company.
Allen Yurko will be retiring as a non-
executive director at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting on 28 July 2005 having
served on the Board for nine years. The
Board thanks him for his work as Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee since 2001
and for his wise counsel and commitment to
the Company.
Kai Nargolwala, a Group Executive
Director of Standard Chartered PLC, was
appointed as a non-executive director from 
1 December 2004. His considerable financial
and commercial experience, and particularly
his knowledge of the Asia Pacific region, will
be of great benefit to the Board.
Dr. Barry Zoumas was appointed as a
non-executive director from 1 May 2005. 
He is currently the Alan R. Warehime
Professor of Agribusiness and Professor 
of Food Science and Nutrition at The
Pennsylvania State University, USA, having
worked for most of his career for the
Hershey Foods Corporation. His background
as both a scientist and businessman adds
diversity and strength to the Board.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We remain committed to a policy of
continuous improvement in applying sound
safety, environmental and social standards 
in our dealings with all of our stakeholders. 
This commitment is upheld by striving for
continuous progress in achieving the highest
standards of safety, considering the
environmental impact of every aspect of
what we do, and treating our employees,
suppliers and the communities in which we
work as long-term partners.
Pages 28 to 37 of this Annual Report set
out our policies and performance. It is
pleasing to report further improvement in the
Group Safety Index, this year by 19.9%, 
to another record low. The Group continues
to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good, the
UK corporate social responsibility index. 
In March 2005, the Group was awarded a
Food and Drink Federation Community
Partnership Award in the Education Category
(large company) for the Ideas Factory , an
outstanding educational project for children.
Ideas Factory, developed in conjunction with
Tate Britain, is an innovative literacy project
for primary school children that develops
language, reading and writing skills by using
works of art as sources of inspiration. 
Tate & Lyle was also one of the first
companies to pledge support to help victims
of the Asian tsunami disaster. Our pledge
was a corporate donation of  75,000 and a
commitment to match the amount raised 
by employees at least one-to-one. The
generosity of our employees has resulted 
in a final combined donation of  200,000,
which has been disbursed equally across the
four affected countries of India, Sri Lanka,
Indonesia and Thailand. 
A particularly good example of our long-
term partnership with stakeholders is that
with suppliers of raw sugar for our European
Union (EU) refining business. Tate & Lyle
plays a key role as the conduit for the EU's
policy of providing advantageous prices to
the sugar industries in African, Caribbean
and Pacific (ACP) countries as well as from
suppliers in Least Developed and other
Developing Countries, giving them a bridge
for 1.25 million tonnes of sugar each year
into European markets. This is considered 
in more detail in the Corporate Social
Responsibility section on page 33.
Corporate Governance
During the year the Board carried out a
review of its effectiveness and that of its
Committees led by myself. The 2005
evaluation was the second stage of a 
two-year process agreed by the Board in
2004. The conclusions of both the 2004 and
2005 evaluations were that the Board and 
its Committees were operating effectively.
Recommendations such as the introduction
of a full day strategy review and some
changes to the balance of strategic and
operational information provided to the
Board have been implemented.
With effect from 1 April 2005, the Group 
will prepare its accounts using International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
In order to clearly communicate the
anticipated impacts of transition from UK
generally accepted accounting principles, 
we are publishing, as an appendix to this
Annual Report (pages 103 to 123), unaudited
restatements of the Group's 2005 primary
statements under IFRS.
Strategy
We have made good strategic progress 
and this is ongoing. We have united our
businesses under the Tate & Lyle name and
have maintained our focus as a high quality
low cost producer, winning customer and
industry awards. 
We have increased the focus on the value
added component of our business which
has grown both in absolute profit terms and
as a proportion of the Group total. This has
been achieved firstly through a good
performance from our global food
ingredients sales force, secondly through
innovation in marketing where we have
changed what we take to market and how
we go to market, and thirdly through the
successful acquisition and integration of
sucralose manufacturing and ingredient sales
as part of the realignment of the SPLENDA
 
Sucralose business in April 2004.
Outlook
Tate & Lyle reports a strong financial
performance in the year to 31 March 2005
led by growth in SPLENDA
 
Sucralose and
other value added ingredients. Strong cash
generation further improved our financial
position and supports our investment in
future growth.
In the year to 31 March 2006 we expect
further progress although our results will
reflect increased start-up costs relating to
our new value added facilities.
The reform of the EU sugar regime 
will affect the future performance of our
European Sugar and Food & Industrial
Ingredients businesses and will be an
important focus for the management 
team in the current year. The European
Commission has indicated that formal
proposals for reform will be tabled on 
22 June 2005. It is our intention to publish
our quantification of the range of potential
impacts upon our businesses after the 
EU Commission proposals are published.
Across the business we have a number of
expansion projects under way to stimulate
longer term growth in our value added
segment. We have announced capital
projects to more than triple the sucralose
production capacity acquired under the
realignment of the SPLENDA
 
Sucralose
activities and our new joint venture plant 
with DuPont to produce Bio-3G  from
renewable resources should begin to come
on stream in our financial year ending 
31 March 2007. All of these projects are
progressing satisfactorily. 
The growth in value added products,
especially the strong performance of
SPLENDA
 
Sucralose, and the improvement
in the quality of our earnings together with
our increased strategic focus enable us to
view the future with confidence.
Sir David Lees
Chairman
1 June 2005
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 05