 Chairman's statement
After the challenges 
of recent years, 
Taylor Wimpey 
has made strong 
progress during 
2010.
After the challenges of recent years, Taylor 
Wimpey has made strong progress during 
2010. We have:
 	 Delivered significant operational 
improvement, which is reflected in the 
Group's enhanced profitability;
 	 Increased the tangible net asset value 
per share; 
 	 Completed the refinancing of the debt 
facilities entered into in April 2009; and
 	 Continued to support and develop our 
people, including making a number 
of changes to the membership of the 
Board.
2010 performance
In my first Chairman's statement, I am 
delighted to be able to report a strong 
improvement in the Company's financial 
performance during 2010 as the benefits 
of the strategy for recovery set out in last 
year's Annual Report take effect. I look 
forward to building on this success during 
the course of my tenure.
We have recorded a profit before exceptional 
items and tax of  75.1 million (2009 loss: 
 96.1 million). Pre-tax exceptional items  
for the year are  146.4 million (2009:  
 603.8 million), with the major constituents 
being the costs of refinancing and further 
reviews of the carrying value of our land and 
work in progress in the United States and 
Spain. This gives a loss before tax of  
 71.3 million (2009 loss:  699.9 million).
This recovery in underlying profitability owes 
much to the improvements made in all 
areas of our business processes, which I 
have been very impressed by and which will 
add significant value as we move forward.
Refinancing
In addition to this improvement in the 
Company's financial performance, we 
have also made further progress in 
strengthening the Company's balance 
sheet. As we announced on 15 December 
2010, we have completed the refinancing 
of our existing debt facilities, ahead of their 
maturity date in July 2012.
The new arrangements provide a number 
of benefits, including:
 	 a simplified debt structure with 
extended maturity profile;
 	 better blended interest rate of around 
7.5%; and
 	 greater operational flexibility.
Electronic communications
We make our Annual Report available 
electronically to those shareholders who have 
not requested a paper version. This has three 
key benefits:
  a significant reduction in printing and postage 
costs, without reducing the level of information 
available;
  faster access to information; and
  reducing the amount of resources consumed, 
such as paper, and lessening the impact 
of printing and mailing activities on the 
environment.
We also encourage shareholders to elect 
to receive notification of the availability of 
Company documentation by means of an e-mail. 
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by 
logging onto our Web site.
For more information  
www.taylorwimpeyplc.com 
/InvestorRelations/Shareholder Information 
/ElectronicCommunications.htm
Shareholder information
Full details of the facilities available to 
shareholders can be found on page 111  
of this Annual Report and Accounts and at  
www.taylorwimpeyplc.com/InvestorRelations/
ShareholderInformation
Directors' Report:  
Business Review
Directors' Report:  
Governance
Financial Statements Shareholder Information
 6 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Directors' Report: Business Review   I would like to thank our shareholders and 
debt providers for their ongoing support to 
the Group.
Further information regarding the 
refinancing is contained within Ryan 
Mangold's Group Financial Review on 
page 30.
North American operations
As recently announced, we are evaluating 
proposals for our North American 
business and will update the market in 
due course.
Dividends
The Board did not consider it appropriate 
to propose an interim dividend for 2010. 
The uncertainty in the wider economy has 
eased somewhat during the second half 
of 2010, however, we are not proposing 
a final dividend for 2010 (2009 full year 
dividend: nil).
We will continue to review our dividend 
policy in the light of Taylor Wimpey's 
financial position and prevailing economic 
and market conditions in the future.
Corporate responsibility
As a major community developer, we 
have social, ethical, environmental and 
economic responsibilities that we take 
extremely seriously. We believe that 
corporate responsibility is an essential part 
of good governance and makes sound 
business sense, as well as being crucial 
for risk and opportunity management.
Following my appointment in July 2010, 
I was also very pleased to meet with a 
number of our major shareholders to 
discuss both business and governance 
matters, which I found very helpful  
indeed. I look forward to further such 
meetings during the course of 2011 and 
to meeting with shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 21 April 2011.
During 2010, we have embedded our 
approach to corporate responsibility more 
fully into the day to day management of 
the business.  As such, although ultimate 
responsibility continues to rest with the 
Group Chief Executive, Pete Redfern, 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
of the Board has been disbanded.  
However, the Board will continue to 
review our corporate responsibility 
strategy and reporting on a regular 
basis. Our Sustainability Steering Group, 
comprising seven senior personnel 
from relevant disciplines across our UK 
business, coordinates our sustainability 
activities at the operational level and we 
continue to benefit from our excellent 
and fully integrated health, safety and 
environmental management system.
Our people
I have been very impressed by what I have 
seen of our business and our people so 
far. They have demonstrated a very strong 
work ethic, together with huge pride, 
creativity and responsibility in support of 
the Company as well as the homes and 
communities that we build.
We would like to record our thanks to 
all of the people within our business and 
particularly those in our North American 
business who have had the additional 
uncertainty of ongoing speculation 
regarding a potential change of ownership.
Board changes
After seven years as Chairman of the 
Company, Norman Askew stood down at 
the end of June 2010. Norman guided the 
Company safely through unprecedented 
market conditions and leaves it well 
positioned for the future.
I was appointed to the Board as Chairman 
on 1 July 2010 and I am delighted to have 
joined an excellent Board, experienced, 
unified and fully committed to the 
Company and its stakeholders.
Ryan Mangold joined the Board as Group 
Finance Director in November 2010. 
Ryan joined Taylor Wimpey in April 2009 
as Group Financial Controller and has 
played an important role in delivering the 
recent refinancing. I would like to take this 
opportunity to welcome him to the Board 
and thank his predecessor, Chris Rickard, 
who stood down in November 2010, for 
his significant contribution to the Group.
As stated in last year's Annual Report, 
David Williams stood down as a Non 
Executive Director on 31 March 2010. 
Rob Rowley, who joined the Board on 1 
January 2010, succeeded David as Senior 
Independent Director in addition to his role 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
We have recently announced that Katherine 
Innes Ker and Andrew Dougal will be 
stepping down as Non Executive Directors 
immediately prior to the Annual General 
Meeting, after long and distinguished 
service to the Board. Katherine has served 
on the Board for more than nine years and 
Andrew for more than eight.
As announced in February 2011, I am 
very pleased that Kate Barker will be 
joining the Board as a Non Executive 
Director with effect from 21 April 2011. 
Kate brings a wealth of economic and 
political experience as well as a detailed 
knowledge of the housing industry.
I would like to record the Board's 
enormous gratitude to Norman, Chris, 
David, Katherine and Andrew for their 
contributions in what have been some 
very challenging times.
Kevin Beeston 
Chairman
Corporate governance
Strong corporate governance is, if anything, even more essential in challenging 
market conditions.
The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code (UKCGC) in September 2010 in order to ensure that we are ready to comply with 
it during 2011. We also undertook a Board Evaluation during 2010 and, going forward, 
will conduct this process via an external facilitator once every three years, as set out in 
the UKCGC.
All Directors will be submitting themselves for election or re-election at this year's 
Annual General Meeting.
A full report on our corporate governance activities can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 34 to 40 which confirms that the Company was again 
compliant with the Combined Code.
Visit our Web site  
www.taylorwimpeyplc.com /InvestorRelations/CorporateGovernance/
Directors' Report:  
Business Review
Directors' Report:  
Governance
Financial Statements Shareholder Information
 7 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
 Directors' Report: Business Review  