 22 Ted Baker Report and Accounts 2008 / 2009 Ted Baker Report and Accounts 2008 / 2009  23
Directors' Remuneration Report
As well as complying with the Provisions of the 
Code, as disclosed in the Company's corporate 
governance statements, the Board has applied 
the Principles of Good Governance relating 
to directors' remuneration and the Directors' 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 
contained in schedule 7A to CA85 as  
described below.
Procedures for Developing Policy  
and Fixing Remuneration
David Hewitt was the chairman of the 
remuneration committee during the 53 weeks 
to 31 January 2009 with David Bernstein and 
Robert Breare as the other committee members. 
The Board has shown its commitment to formal 
and transparent procedures for developing 
a remuneration policy, fixing executive 
remuneration and ensuring that no director is 
involved in deciding his or her own remuneration 
by consulting the Monk Partnership (an associate 
firm of PriceWaterhouseCoopers which also 
provided tax and accounting services to the Group 
in the year) on executive directors' pay trends. 
This policy is expected to continue in forthcoming 
years.
Statement of Remuneration Policy
The Board does not pay more than is necessary to 
attract and retain the directors required to run the 
Company successfully. The aim of the Company's 
remuneration policy is to attract, motivate and 
retain high quality management and to incentivise 
them to achieve growth in earnings per share 
which delivers value to the shareholders.
The total size of the remuneration package is 
judged by comparison with the value of packages 
of similar companies, having regard to:
    the size of the Company, its turnover, profits 
and number of people employed;
    the diversity and complexity of the business;
    the geographical spread of the business; and
    the growth and expansion profile.
The remuneration policy is as follows:
Basic Salary
This is reviewed annually by the Remuneration 
Committee having regard to competitive market 
practice and each director's contribution to the 
business, thus allowing for individual performance.
Annual Bonus
The annual grant of bonuses is conditional upon 
achievement of targets by reference to agreed 
financial performance measures and external 
expectations, namely profit before tax and  
growth in earnings per share. These are designed 
to provide a direct link between the rewards of 
executives and returns to shareholders. Bonuses 
are capped at 100 per cent of basic salary. This 
scheme is applicable to Mr R S Kelvin and Mr L D 
Page. Amounts received in the year may be found 
on page 24.
Benefits
Taxable benefits include such items as company 
cars, fuel and medical expense insurance. Life 
assurance is provided as a non-taxable benefit.
Pensions
The Company operates a money purchase scheme 
with a Company contribution of 12.5 per cent of 
basic salary for executive directors apart from Mr 
R S Kelvin. 
Long Term Incentive Plans and  
Share Options
The Company believes that share ownership 
by executive directors and senior executives 
strengthens the link between their personal 
interests and those of the shareholders.  
Earnings per share growth is the chosen 
performance criterion because it is seen  
as a key driver of shareholder value.
The Company's Executive Share Option Scheme 
and Performance Share Plan impose an aggregate 
individual limit on the market value of shares, 
which may be subject to options or awards of 
ten times that individual's annual remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee's policy is usually 
to grant share options every three to five years, 
with each grant based on between one and four 
times an individual's basic salary, and to grant 
conditional awards annually based on one times 
an individual's basic salary. 
Corporate Governance Statements Continued
These risks are assessed on a continual basis  
and may be associated with a variety of internal 
or external sources including control breakdowns, 
disruption in information systems, competition, 
natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Group has an independent internal audit 
function whose findings are regularly reviewed by 
the executive committee and the Board. The Audit 
Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit activities.
Management reports regularly on its review 
of risks and how they are managed to the Risk 
Committee, whose main role is to review, on 
behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the 
business and the system of control necessary to 
manage such risks, and to present their findings  
to the Board. The Chief Executive reports to 
the Board on behalf of the executive committee 
on significant changes in the business and the 
external environment which affects significant 
risks. The Finance Director provides the Board 
with monthly financial information which 
includes key performance indicators. Where areas 
for improvement in the system are identified, the 
Board considers the recommendations made by 
the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee includes the Finance Director 
and various heads of department. It reviews, on 
a twice yearly basis, the risk management and 
control process and considers:
    the authority, resources and co-ordination of 
those involved in the identification, assessment 
and management of the significant risks faced 
by the Group;
    the response to the significant risks which have 
been identified by management and others; 
    the maintenance of a control environment 
directed towards the proper management of 
risk; and
    the annual reporting procedures.
Additionally, the Risk Committee keeps abreast of 
all changes made to the systems and follows up on 
areas that require improvement. It reports to the 
Board at twice yearly intervals or more frequently 
should the need arise.
Following approval at the 2008 Annual General 
Meeting, the Company's articles of association 
were amended to take account of certain 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to 
directors' conflicts of interest. These provisions 
permit the Board to consider, and if thought fit, 
to authorise situations where a director has an 
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. The Board 
has adopted procedures for the approval of 
such conflicts. The Board's powers to authorise 
conflicts are operating effectively and the 
procedures are being followed. 24 Ted Baker Report and Accounts 2008 / 2009 Ted Baker Report and Accounts 2008 / 2009  25
Total shareholder value
The following charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company from February 2004 
to January 2009.
The following schemes are in operation for the benefit of directors:
The 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme
Under this scheme, options may be granted to subscribe for new shares and to acquire shares from 
the Ted Baker Group Employee Benefit Trust. The exercise of options is subject to earnings per share 
growth over three accounting periods, the first being the one in which the grant is made. If compound 
earnings per share growth is at least 7.5 per cent per annum, then 25 per cent of the options will be 
exercisable rising on a straight line basis to the maximum if compound growth of 12.5 per cent per 
annum is achieved. Mr R S Kelvin and Mr L D Page hold options granted under this scheme.
In establishing the performance conditions of the share scheme, the Remuneration Committee has 
reviewed the standards used by similar sized companies within the retail industry and has established 
challenging criteria that are required to be met in order to permit admission into the scheme.
The Ted Baker Performance Share Plan
Under this plan, both conditional awards and share options may be granted:
  The award of shares is subject to earnings per share growth over three accounting periods, the first 
being the one in which the grant is made. For awards made on 31 July 2006 and 23 March 2007, 
if compound earnings per share growth is at least 10 per cent per annum, then 25 per cent of the 
award will vest rising on a straight line basis to the maximum if compound growth of 15 per cent per 
annum is achieved. For awards made on 4 April 2008, if compound earnings per share growth is at 
least 7.5 per cent per annum, then 25 per cent of the awards will vest using a straight line basis to the 
maximum of compound growth if 12.5 per cent per annum is achieved. Shares awarded will normally 
be received in two equal tranches, one following the end of the three-year performance period and 
the second tranche one year later. Mr R S Kelvin and Mr L D Page hold awards under this plan.
  The exercise of share options is subject to the same performance conditions as the 1997 Executive 
Share Option Scheme. 
The Ted Baker Sharesave Scheme
Under this scheme, options are made available to all employees to encourage share ownership.  
The exercise of options is not subject to performance conditions. Mr L D Page holds options under  
this scheme.
Contracts of Service
Each executive director has a service contract with a notice period of 12 months subject to retirement, 
normally at the age of 65. The Board sets non-executive directors' fees. 
Date of service
contract Un-expired term Notice period
Provision for 
compensation
Robert Breare 1 November 2001 6 months 6 months None
David A Bernstein 24 January 2003 6 months 6 months None
David B Hewitt 17 July 1997 6 months 6 months None
Raymond S Kelvin 17 July 1997 12 months 12 months None
Lindsay D Page 17 July 1997 12 months 12 months None
Ronald Stewart 25 February 2009 6 months 6 months None
Value ( )
Feb  04
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Oct  05 Feb  08 Jun  04 Feb  06 Jun  08 Oct  04 Jun  06 Oct  08 Feb  05 Jun  07 Oct  06 Jun  05 Oct  07 Feb  07
Total Shareholder Return - 5 Years
Ted Baker PLC
FTSE All Share
General Retailers