 Chairman's statement 
 
 
3
I am delighted to present the Group's 2008 annual report for the year ended 31 December 2008.  TEG has 
delivered a significant increase in revenues and performance and the year has proved to be the defining period the 
Board had expected.   
Trading for 2008 has matched expectations.  Full year turnover for 2008 was  12,706,000 (2007:  2,169,000) and 
losses were reduced to  1,475,000 (2007:  3,034,000 loss), after share based administration expenses.  The 
Group recorded a gross profit of  1,997,000 (2007  236,000 loss).  No dividend is recommended. 
Pleasingly, trading in all aspects of the Group's operations improved significantly in 2008.  Revenues from plant 
sales increased substantially with two further facilities being completed and with the commencement of the first 
facility in Greater Manchester.  Revenues from the TEG operating plants increased by 68% and the first revenues 
were generated by NOFCO and from third party maintenance contracts. 
The Group has a healthy cash position with a closing balance as at 31 December 2008 of  6,831,000. 
Greater Manchester Waste PFI Contract 
Significant progress has been made towards the conclusion of the contract and the Board anticipates that Financial 
Close for the whole project will be reached in the near future.  The contract is for the construction of four plants 
between 2008 and 2011 to process a total of 175,000 tonnes of kitchen and garden waste per annum.  The plants 
to be constructed by TEG are progressively scheduled for construction between the third quarter of 2008 and the 
third quarter of 2011.    
It is anticipated that revenues will be in excess of  38m over the period of the contract, including the revenues 
already received in 2008.   
As previously announced on the 9 January and 30 April 2008, TEG received Advanced Works Orders (AWOs ) 
from Costain for the contract, to commence works at Rochdale and Bredbury, the first two of the four projected 
TEG plants.  Construction commenced at Rochdale in June 2008, is well advanced and proceeding to programme.  
Design works at Bredbury have been largely completed and construction is scheduled to commence in 2009.  The 
AWOs will be subsumed into the main contract. 
Plant Sales and Construction 
The construction of TEG's sixth facility, for Gwynedd Council, was completed on schedule in April 2008. The plant 
has run well since handover and TEG has been awarded a maintenance contract to carry out scheduled 
maintenance on the facility.  
Expansion of the Todmorden facility was completed as planned to accommodate increased sales volumes.  A 
further 12,000 tonnes per annum of capacity was installed by the end of the year bringing the total capacity to 
approximately 37,000 tonnes per annum. 
Construction of the first plant for Verdia Horticulture Limited (Verdia ) at Hillbarton, a Glendale site near Exeter, 
was completed in December 2008 and the plant is being commissioned during the first quarter of 2009.  Verdia is 
the joint venture between TEG and Glendale Managed Services Limited. 
During the second half of 2008, TEG constructed its first air management systems and biofilters for third party 
customers, successfully installing 2 plants.  Air management systems are an important feature of all organic waste 
management facilities and TEG has successfully developed its own design of biofilter that has been in operation at 
Todmorden for 12 months.  Chairman's statement 
 
 
4
Group Plant Operations 
Plant performance has generally been good throughout the year with no significant plant outages.   
Sales at Sherdley Farm in Preston increased by 137% on the same period in 2007.  Customers now include two 
Local Authorities in addition to Veolia, Greater Manchester Waste Limited, Heinz and Schwan. 
Todmorden completed its first full year of trading and by the end of the year contracted waste volume exceeded 
capacity, hence the installation of additional capacity.  Whilst direct comparison with 2007 is not possible, waste 
sales in the first half of 2008 increased by 45% on the second half of 2007, and increased by a further 74% in the 
second half of 2008.  Todmorden sales became the highest for any of the Group's operations in H2 of 2008. 
Sales at the TEG plant in Perth were 8% higher in 2008 than in 2007 and the Board is pleased with the continued 
sales growth.  Customer density is lower than at the other TEG facilities and the market is increasingly competitive 
but, despite this, the facility continues to contribute a positive gross margin to the Group. 
Natural Organic Fertiliser Company Limited (NOFCO ) 
NOFCO has continued to make excellent progress in the development of end markets for TEG's compost product.  
The first sales of compost were achieved at Perth where revenues exceed distribution costs and sales revenues 
across all the plants improved further in the second half of 2008. 
The prestigious PAS100 Quality Protocol accreditation standard for TEG compost has been achieved at all three 
TEG facilities and this has enhanced the value of TEG's products.  By achieving the PAS100 Quality Protocol 
standard, TEG's compost is classified by regulators as a product rather than a recycled waste material, thereby 
reducing the regulatory burden on product sales.  New markets are developing for PAS100 standard compost and 
the Board anticipates further increases in revenues in 2009. 
Market Update 
As previously announced, the annual Landfill Tax (LFT ) escalator was increased in April 2008.  The previous 
annual escalator of  3 per tonne of waste landfilled rose to  8 per tonne which, together with annual cost increases 
by operators, resulted in an overall price increase of  9-10 per tonne during the year.  The same level of increase 
in LFT is also anticipated in April 2009 and 2010 bringing the tax from  24 per tonne at the start of 2008 to a total 
of  48 per tonne by April 2010, an increase of 100% over the 3 year period.  TEG has observed an increase in 
market activity and recycling which it attributes to the increases in LFT. 
In addition, statutory targets on Local Authorities for the diversion of waste from landfill are a further stimulus for the 
market and the Group has observed that the market continues to grow strongly. 
A significant observation in 2008 has been the emphasis from Government on the potential for Anaerobic Digestion 
(AD ) as a form of renewable energy.  In addition to its potential as an alternative means of food waste recycling, 
AD produces methane which can be burned in a turbine to produce renewable energy and it attracts Renewable 
Obligations Certificates.  The methane can also be captured for use as a vehicle fuel.  Whilst the technology is 
considered new to the UK, with only a handful of operators in the food waste sector, it is anticipated that 
Government will encourage the development of AD as a technology to be considered alongside the now 
established In Vessel Composting technologies. 
The Group was delighted to be recognised for its achievements to date with two prestigious awards during 2008.  
The first was the AIM Achievement in Sustainability Award and the second was the Local Authority Partnership 
Award made by the Association for Organics Recycling.  This was a joint award won with one of our customers, 
Sefton Council in Merseyside.  Chairman's statement 
 
 
5
New Technologies 
As announced on 10 March 2009, the Group has entered into a partnership and collaboration agreement with UTS 
Biogastechnik GmbH (UTS ), the Munich based Anaerobic Digestion technology provider.  In keeping with our 
observations of market developments, as detailed above in Market Update, the Board believes there will be 
considerable growth in AD in the United Kingdom over the next decade and TEG's expertise in organic waste 
treatment, operational experience and agricultural end market experience makes it ideally placed to develop AD 
facilities in tandem with its Silo Cage composting technology. 
UTS is a market leader in AD technology with an impressive track record of facilities throughout Europe.  Over a 
period of 15 years, UTS has constructed 70 AD plants and provided equipment to a further 1500.  Crucially, UTS 
has a strong record in facilities processing food and catering waste, the feedstock TEG believes will be the most 
prevalent in new AD facilities in the UK. 
TEG offers the partnership a track record in delivering projects in the public sector in the UK with the engineering 
and technical expertise to construct, maintain and operate facilities.  The UTS technology fits well with the TEG Silo 
Cage composting technology, allowing the partnership to offer the range of solutions required to treat all Local 
Authority organic waste streams.  
Future Prospects 
2008 has seen a significant step change in the revenues for the business with a 6 fold increase in revenues on 
2007.  The Group's pipeline of opportunities remains pleasingly strong and it is actively bidding for a sizeable 
number of significant contracts, including a number of further PFI/PPP projects, in addition to a large number of 
smaller waste sales opportunities.   
TEG is still observing very good market growth and a continued increase in interest in the organic waste sector, 
despite the global economic situation restricting short term funding of developments in the private sector.  The 
addition of an AD technology to TEG's proposition will further broaden the range of opportunities open to TEG in 
the future.   
Revenues for plant sales are recognised against completed programme milestones and are determined by activity 
levels at each project stage. Construction of the Greater Manchester plants is proceeding to schedule, and activity 
levels in the first half of 2009 will be consistent with those in the second half of 2008.  As the expected activity 
levels on the Greater Manchester build programme accelerate in the second half of the year, the Board anticipates 
significant overall growth in 2009 and anticipates continued growth of the Group beyond this period.  The Board is 
confident that the Group has an exciting future with a strong outlook for trading in the remainder of 2009 and 
beyond. 
 
  
 
Nigel Moore 
Chairman 
23 March 2009 
 