 Chairman's statement 
 
I am delighted to present the Group's annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009, the most successful 
trading year in the Group's history.   
Trading for 2009 has been good and fully met expectations, and the Group continues to deliver significant growth.  
Full year revenue for 2009 increased by 21% to  15,394,000 (2008:  12,706,000) and the Group achieved a profit 
of  243,000 (2008:  1,475,000 loss), after share based payment expenses and a one-off gain of  956,000 relating 
to negative goodwill arising from the highly successful acquisition in June 2009 of Banham Compost Limited 
(BCL ). No dividend is recommended. 
The Group maintains a healthy cash position with a closing balance as at 31 December 2009 of  3,770,000. 
Greater Manchester Waste PFI Contract 
The contract was signed on 8 April 2009. TEG's contract with Costain is for the construction of 4 in-vessel 
composting (IVC) plants with a combined capacity of 175,000 tonnes per annum and the value of the contract is 
in excess of  38 million over the period to 2011.
Construction of the first facility at Waithlands, Rochdale, was completed in June and the plant was handed over in 
November 2009.  Construction of the second plant in Bredbury commenced in August 2009 and is proceeding well.  
Planning approval has been gained at the two remaining sites in Trafford and Bolton and the instruction to proceed 
was received for Trafford in December 2009.  
Plant Sales  
The Group was pleased to announce it has secured the  1.6 million sale of a further TEG Silo Cage plant to 
Taywell Composting Limited (Taywell) to be installed at its plant in Matlock, Derbyshire. TEG has been informed 
by Taywell that it still expects to return to planning committee regarding its Matlock project in early 2010, to 
determine compliance with Defra guidelines on odour management and the outstanding Section 106 Agreement.  
Group Plant Operations 
Revenues at Todmorden continued to grow impressively with an increase of 64% on 2008.  The additional capacity 
installed at the end of 2008 has been largely filled and the Group expects a further strong performance in 2010.   
Revenues at Perth increased by 36% compared to 2008 and the Company was pleased to announce it has 
secured a four year contract with Perth & Kinross Council that will underpin revenues until at least the end of 2013. 
The Group previously announced that it is seeking to relocate the Sherdley Farm composting plant to a larger 
facility meeting modern standards.  With a 45% increase in revenues on 2008, the demand at Sherdley Farm 
exceeds capacity and the buildings housing the plant do not meet revised regulatory requirements for a composting 
facility.  The Group intends to run down the composting operation during 2010 and relocate waste supplies to other 
Group plants until the new facility is constructed.  Given the small scale of the facility, the Board does not anticipate 
this will have a material impact on projections for 2010.  The Group is examining a number of longer term options 
for the Sherdley farm site and will update the market in due course. 
The satisfactory overall plant performance was in spite of operational difficulties and waste shortages due to the 
unusually adverse weather conditions in the latter part of the year.  
Natural Organic Fertiliser Company Limited (NOFCO ) 
NOFCO has continued to make excellent progress in the development of end markets for TEG's compost product.   
The prestigious PAS100 Quality Protocol accreditation standard for TEG compost has been achieved at all four 
TEG facilities and this has enhanced the value of TEG's products.  New markets are developing for PAS100 
standard compost and NOFCO has achieved positive sales value for all plants during 2009. 
 
3 Chairman's statement 
 
Strategic Activities 
As announced on 25 June 2009, the Group completed the acquisition of BCL, following a successful share placing 
to raise  1.9 million before expenses. As part of the acquisition, the Group acquired the freehold site, buildings and 
business of the composting operation based at Carleton Rode in Norfolk. The site has a capacity of 28,000 tonnes 
per annum.  Under the terms of the acquisition, TEG was able to acquire the business, including plant and 
equipment, freehold land and buildings at below-fair value, producing a provisional one-off gain of  956,000, 
reflected as a negative goodwill credit in the statement of comprehensive income. The accounting treatment of the 
BCL composting facility as an operating lease has resulted in the interest element of payments being charged to 
operating profit. This resulted in a charge of  198,000 in 2009 and will result in a charge of approximately  400,000 
per annum until the operating lease ends in 2011. 
 
The integration of the Carleton Rode facility has proceeded to plan and pleasingly the operation has exceeded 
expectation.  Subsequent to the acquisition, the planned improvement works were completed to the buildings and 
air management systems and a new biofilter was installed.  Waste supply sales for 2010 have already been 
completed, all compost products are currently being sold for a positive value and the Board anticipates a strong 
performance for the remainder of the year.  The Board expects the plant to be operating at full capacity from the 
middle of 2010  
In March 2009, TEG announced a collaboration agreement with UTS Biogastechnik GmbH (UTS). UTS is 
a Munich based market leader in Anaerobic Digestion (AD ) technology with an impressive track record of facilities 
throughout Europe.  The ability to offer both IVC and AD components on tenders greatly enhances TEG's 
attractiveness as a bidder to potential customers. A number of Local Authorities are now procuring AD capacity in 
addition to the now well established TEG Silo Cage technology.   
Further to the collaboration with UTS, TEG announced in December 2009 a collaboration agreement with Alkane 
Energy PLC (Alkane ).  The partnership brought together TEG's experience in the waste sector and its proven 
ability to secure projects and operate waste treatment facilities, with Alkane's knowledge and experience of the 
energy sector and its ability to secure electricity prices, Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCS) and Feed in 
Tariffs (FITS ), and heat sales.  The partnership enhances the Group's ability to successfully bid for Local 
Authority and other large AD based contracts. 
Finally, in October 2009 the Group sold its interest in Verdia Horticulture Limited to its former joint venture partner, 
Glendale Grounds Management Limited, generating a profit on sale of  135,000 after disposal costs. 
Market Update 
The market continues to grow strongly as Local Authorities increasingly implement the separation of organic 
wastes from the municipal waste stream.  Statutory obligations to divert waste from landfill are increasing annually 
and are expected to increase continuously until 2020.  Landfill Tax (LFT) continues to rise annually; landfill tax rose 
by  8 per tonne in April 2009 and is expected to rise by a further  8 per tonne in April 2010, increasing the tax to a 
total of  48 per tonne.   
 
The Group has observed increased levels of Local Authority procurement activity and anticipates the elevated 
levels of activity to be maintained for the foreseeable future.  The Group has also noted a significant change in 
procurement policy by Local Authorities with more emphasis on the letting of long term contracts in return for 
private sector investment as opposed to direct plant procurement. 
 
The general market conditions continue to look very favourable for both the In Vessel Composting (IVC) and 
Anaerobic Digestion (AD) prospects.  As I have previously commented, the Group has noted a significant 
increase in market interest in energy generation from food waste and an emergence of interest in technologies 
such as anaerobic digestion (AD).   
 
Government policy continues to support the expansion of the organic waste market.  In addition to the established 
LFT and the landfill diversion obligations, the Group has noted significant encouragement towards diversion of 
organic materials from landfill and has noted a consultation process has commenced with regard to a potential total 
ban of the disposal of organic materials to landfill.  TEG anticipates Government policy will continue to support the 
expansion of the market for the foreseeable future. 
 
 
4 Chairman's statement 
 
 
 
The Environment Agency is expected to announce an enhanced level of regulation for the composting sector.  This 
enhanced level of regulation will limit the extent of open composting and is likely to oblige operators to enhance the 
level of containment of some of the older existing operations, and the Board also considers it likely that the 
regulatory pressure will lead to future composting facilities being increasingly in vessel  further utilising technology 
such as the TEG Silo Cages.    
Future Prospects 
TEG has a strong pipeline of projects and anticipates that a number of these will move into construction in 2010.  
The Group has already announced its proposed development with Anagest at Stormy Down, Bridgend and the 
Group is evaluating a number of opportunities to further expand its range of operations in 2010. 
The need for diversion of organic waste from landfill is ever increasing and is supported by both EU and UK 
legislation, driving the continuous expansion of the market.  In addition, TEG is one of the few technology 
companies able to supply plants that fully meet the latest Defra guidance on environmental control.  The Company 
is very well placed to continue to take advantage of that expanding market with its Silo Cage in vessel composting 
technology and its collaborations in the AD sector with UTS and Alkane. 
The Board is confident that the Group has an exciting future with a strong outlook for trading in the remainder of 
2010 and beyond. 
 
  
 
Nigel Moore 
Chairman 
17 March 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5