 Chairman's statement 
    3 
I am delighted to present the Group's annual report for the year ended 31 December 2010, a period of further 
growth and expansion of trading activities.   
Trading for 2010 has been pleasing, and the Group continues to deliver significant growth.  Full year revenue for 
2010 increased by 35% to  20,740,000 (2009:  15,394,000) and the Group operating losses reduced by 45% to 
 398,000 (2009:  720,000) after adjusting for the gains of  15,000 (2009:  956,000) relating to negative goodwill 
arising from the acquisition of TEG Energy Limited in the prior year.   No dividend is recommended. 
The Group maintains a healthy cash position with a closing balance as at 31 December 2010 of  3,389,000. 
Greater Manchester Waste PFI Contract 
Construction of the second facility (Bredbury) proceeded to plan and commissioning commenced in quarter 4 of 
2010.  Construction of the third facility (Trafford Park) also proceeded to plan in 2010 and commissioning is 
scheduled to commence in quarter 2 of 2011. 
As announced on 6 January 2011, the anticipated Instruction to Proceed (ITP ) for the construction of the fourth 
facility was not received before the end of 2010 as the client was unable to complete all its necessary site 
investigations.  It is now anticipated that the client will complete its site investigation works and issue the ITP in 
the first half of 2011. The fourth composting site is an integral part of TEG's contract with Costain and planning 
permission for the facility is in place. 
Perth AD Facility 
The Group was pleased to announce it achieved the financial closure of its first anaerobic digestion (AD ) facility.  
The 16,000 tonnes per annum facility is being installed at TEG's Perth site and will generate 0.5 - 0.7 MW of 
electricity and 0.25 MW of heat, to be utilised on site in the Binn Eco Park development.  The project is funded by 
Albion Ventures LLP (Albion ) and Zero Waste Scotland and is expected to be commissioned in quarter 2 of 2011.  
The Group retains a 50% shareholding in the project. 
Group Plant Operations 
Revenues at all in vessel composting (IVC ) sites continued to grow with an increase of 28% on 2009 through a 
combination of increased waste volumes and increased prices.  The Sherdley farm facility was progressively run 
down throughout the year, waste transferred to Todmorden and plant and equipment transferred to TEG Energy 
Limited at Carleton Rode.  The Sherdley Farm facility is being utilised by the Group for R&D and engineering 
activities.   
During 2010, the Group completed the highly successful acquisition of Simpro Limited, the Midlands based green 
waste composting business.  Simpro met its targets for 2010, is profitable and cash generative, and integration 
has proceeded well. 
In aggregate, the Group processed 185,000 tonnes of organic waste in 2010 and now, following the acquisition of 
Simpro, has an annualised capacity in excess of 280,000 tonnes per annum.  
The satisfactory overall plant performance was in spite of operational difficulties and waste shortages due to the 
unusually adverse weather conditions in the early and latter part of the year.  
  Chairman's statement 
    4 
Strategic Activities 
The AD market developed rapidly in 2010 and the Group has strengthened its ability to supply AD technology into 
the waste market.  In June 2010, TEG announced the signing of a licensing agreement with UTS Biogastechnik 
GmbH (UTS) giving the Group exclusivity in the UK waste sector for UTS technology. UTS is 
a Munich based market leader in AD technology with an impressive track record of facilities throughout Europe.  
TEG also continues to collaborate with Alkane Energy PLC (Alkane ) on a number of projects under the 
collaboration agreement signed in December 2009.  The ability to offer both IVC and AD components on tenders, 
together with Alkane's expertise in methane to energy projects, has greatly enhanced TEG's attractiveness as a 
bidder to potential customers.  It is pleasing to note a significantly improved interest from debt and project 
financiers in the funding of new projects. 
The Group was very pleased to announce the support of the London Waste and Recycling Board (LWaRB ) for its 
proposed facility in Dagenham, East London.  LWaRB is to provide  1.9m of funding to the project, with Albion 
expected to provide the balance of funding.  The facility incorporates 30,000 tonnes per annum of AD capacity 
and 20,000 tonnes per annum of IVC capacity.  Generating in excess of 1MW of electricity, enough to power 2,000 
homes, it is expected that the plant will move into construction in 2011 and will be operational in 2012.   The 
Group was delighted to announce on the 9
th
 March 2011 that it had been awarded a contract by LondonWaste 
Limited for 12,000-15,000 tonnes per annum of co-mingled food and green waste, which will provide a solid initial 
contract base for the Dagenham facility.  
Market Update 
The overall market has continued to grow as Local Authorities increasingly implement the separation of organic 
wastes from the municipal waste stream and the private sector increases its level of organic waste recycling.  
Statutory obligations to divert waste from landfill are increasing annually and are expected to increase 
continuously until 2020.  Landfill Tax (LFT ) continues to rise annually; landfill tax rose by  8.00 per tonne in April 
2010 and is expected to rise by a further  8.00 per tonne in April 2011, increasing the tax to a total of  56.00 per 
tonne.  Government has confirmed that LFT will rise by  8.00 per tonne per annum until at least 2013.  This is 
expected to continue to stimulate market growth for the foreseeable future.  In addition, the Welsh Assembly 
Government has maintained its policy to procure the construction of a number of organic waste facilities in the 
period from 2011 to 2013 and the Scottish Assembly is intending to progressively introduce a ban on the landfill 
of organic waste in both the public and private sectors.   
 
Two observations have been made with regards to the Government's Comprehensive Spending Review.  Firstly, it 
is likely to reduce some recycling streams in the short term as some Local Authorities delay the cost of 
implementation of new collection rounds for segregated waste streams.  However, this is considered to be 
localised and to be a short term delay.  Secondly, as anticipated by the Company and previously reported, TEG has 
noted a significant change in procurement policy by Local Authorities to the letting of long term contracts in 
return for private sector investment, as opposed to direct plant procurement.  Encouragingly, the Company has 
generated significant interest from potential financiers to fund such projects and the Board will continue to 
evaluate appropriate projects on a case by case basis. 
 
TEG has also noted the continued increase in market interest in energy generation from food waste and the 
strengthening of interest in technologies such as AD.  Government and Local Authorities have placed an emphasis 
on the implementation of AD and TEG is progressing a number of tender enquiries for AD capacity in addition to a 
continuing interest in IVC technology.  Government incentives for AD and other renewable energy technologies 
are largely by subsidy for sales of power in the form of either renewable obligation certificates (ROCs ) or feed in 
tariffs (FITs ).  The level of subsidy available through ROCs and FITs for existing schemes has been determined by 
Government but the level of subsidy for future schemes will be reviewed in 2011.  
  Chairman's statement 
    5 
The Government announcement on Renewable Heat Incentives (RHI ) has been recently released and offers 
further incentives for AD through the sale of surplus heat. 
 
TEG anticipates that Government policy will continue to support the expansion of the market for the foreseeable 
future. 
 
The longer term regulatory environment is also expected to benefit the Group.  TEG has further invested in its 
facilities in 2010 to ensure they meet the enhanced guidance introduced by Defra in 2009 and the Group believes 
its technology lends itself to the additional level of containment required.  In addition, the regulators have 
introduced policies to reduce the level of low grade green waste disposal which take effect in quarter 4 of 2011.  
This is expected to increase the volume of green waste diverted into the composting sector. 
 
Future Prospects 
Market demand remains strong and the Group is well placed to continue to take advantage of the expanding 
market.  TEG maintains a strong pipeline of tender opportunities and anticipates the successful conclusion of 
further projects in 2011, including the completion of its inaugral AD plant in Perth.  The Board is confident that 
the Group has an exciting future with a strong outlook for trading in the remainder of 2011 and beyond. 
   
  
 
 
Nigel Moore 
Chairman 
14 March 2011 
 
 
 