 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 7
BUSINESS
I am delighted to report a further year of significant achievement for 
the Company, which has seen turnover, profitability, earnings per share and
dividends all reach record levels.
Pre-tax profits increased by 45% to  16.8m (2007:  11.6m) on group turnover of  186m 
(2007:  176m). This strong increase in profitability clearly demonstrates the resilience of our
infrastructure-light business model, and the benefits which the business can be expected to deliver as
we achieve increasing economies of scale in the future. The relatively modest rise in turnover during
the period reflects the impact of lower retail energy prices last spring (which have recently been
reversed following a sharp increase in the wholesale markets), as well as our decision to restructure
our multi-service discount scheme to provide Club members with free telephone calls instead of the
previous Cashback scheme.
Earnings per share increased by 42% during the year to 17.7p (2007: 12.5p). Our share buy-back
programme, in which we purchased 3.1m shares at an average cost of 182p per share, improved
earnings per share by 2.3% this year, however this was offset by a higher effective tax rate of 28.7%
(2007: 25.7%).
Customer numbers have been moving ahead steadily since the changes we announced at our sales
conference in October, with the rate of growth increasing as we moved through the first quarter of
2008. Residential Club membership increased by over 9% during the year to 158,972 
(2007: 145,317) and our Business Club membership grew by almost 50% during the year to 9,537
(2007: 6,388); together, these clubs (trading under the Utility Warehouse brand) now account for over
77% (2007: 72%) of our total customer base.  We are particularly encouraged by the recent strong
growth in the number of services we are providing, which reached 591,981 (2007: 542,039) by the
year end; of this total, over 22,000 were added during the last quarter of the year (more than twice as
many as were added during the whole of the first six months), representing an annualised growth rate of
more than 15%.
During the year we continued to focus on the quality of our customer base. This has shown a steady
improvement as measured by the proportion of our customers who are taking more than one service
which has risen from 67% to 71%, the average number of services taken by each member which has
increased to 3.11 (2007: 2.95) and the average spend per customer which has grown to  824
(2007:  801). We have also invested significant additional resources in improving our UK-based
customer service team. As a result, we have seen a significant reduction in customer churn over the
last six months to an annualised rate of around 20%. 
Oxford Power Holdings (Opus), in which we maintain a 20% interest, has continued to produce
extremely satisfactory results. Our share of their profits increased to  939,000 (2007:  473,000)
and Opus declared its first dividend on 31 March 2008. On 31 December 2007, their strong cash
generation enabled Opus to repay its  2m loan to the company which we had made to them at the
time of our original investment in February 2003.
Year-end net cash balances increased by  4.5m to  30.3m (2007:  25.8m), notwithstanding
spending  5.7m on repurchasing shares. We still have considerable scope to repurchase further
shares over the coming year, as well as continuing to increase the proportion of our earnings paid out
as dividends.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
7
BUSINESS TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 8
Our distributors have become increasingly confident in the overall strength of our customer
proposition, which combines convenience, value and a consistently high quality of customer service;
this has resulted in a substantial increase in activity. We saw a net increase of over 3,000 
distributors over the year (2007: net increase of 600), taking the total to around 19,600 
(2007: 16,600); this represents an increase of over 18% during the year, all of which took place
during the second half. The current total includes approximately 500 Community Fundraisers, a new
business opportunity we introduced in October 2007 to enable local organisations (e.g. schools,
sports clubs, religious bodies and charities) to raise funds by promoting the benefits of using our
services within their communities.
Our infrastructure and systems were originally developed to enable us to manage a significantly
larger number of customers than those currently using our services, which means we have the
potential to benefit from further economies of scale by growing our customer numbers and the number
of services we provide. This remains a key priority for the coming year.
Recently published customer satisfaction surveys compare us favourably against our competitors. We
intend to capitalise on these positive opinions by enhancing the benefits available under our recently
introduced customer referral programme through offering existing members, who successfully
recommend a new customer to us, a discount on their own monthly utility bill - a discount which
increases with the number of new customers they introduce. This initiative will be supported by the
inbound tele-sales fulfilment team we established late last year, which enables potential new customers
to sign up for our services with the minimum of effort or inconvenience.  
We have also recently introduced new systems designed to encourage New Occupiers (potential
customers who have moved into a property where we are the incumbent utility supplier) to become
Club members, rather than reverting back to their previous supplier(s). Notwithstanding the slowdown in
the housing market recently, this initiative is expected to have a positive impact on our net growth, as
around 4% of our residential customers move home each year.
Once again I would like to thank our staff and distributors for the loyalty they have shown, and the
continuing contribution they are making to the success of the Company.
DIVIDEND
We are proposing a final dividend of 10p for the year (2007: 6p) making a total for the year of
14p (2006: 8p). This represents an increase of 75% in our total payment compared with last year.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 August 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 11 July 2008 and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Company's Annual
General Meeting which is being held on 9 July 2008. 
In the context of the strong growth and cash generation currently being achieved, and subject to
unforeseen circumstances, we intend to pay a total dividend of not less than 17.5p for the current
financial year and not less than 22p for the year to 31 March 2010.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
CONTINUED TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 9
BUSINESS
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
The nature of our business model gives us considerable visibility over our future revenues, and it is
extremely encouraging that we have been able to maintain our margins in all of the business areas in
which we operate.
The forward price curves for gas and electricity suggest there are likely to be further industry-wide
increases in retail energy prices this autumn. However, we remain insulated from any volatility in the
wholesale energy markets under our long-term supply arrangements with npower, where they are
responsible for meeting the energy requirements of our customers in accordance with a price formula
designed to ensure we earn a positive margin whilst maintaining competitive retail prices.
We are still the UK's only fully integrated multi-service utility provider, able to offer our customers
consistent value across a wide range of services with the added convenience of receiving a single
clear and concise bill each month. Our distribution channel has demonstrated its continuing ability to
gather high quality new customers, cost-effectively and in increasing volumes; this gives us a
considerable competitive advantage in the domestic market. 
The combination of higher growth in the number of services we provide and the lower churn which
we have seen in recent months will, if these trends continue, feed through into significantly higher
turnover and profits over the coming years. We would logically expect to benefit from the difficult
general economic environment as consumers search for better value suppliers in order to reduce their
outgoings, and the tendency amongst those whose standard of living is being squeezed to seek
additional sources of income such as that provided by becoming one of our distributors. Indeed, 
March 2008 saw us recruit more new distributors than in any other single month during the last 
three years.
Since the year end we have seen a further increase in activity, with encouraging growth in the
number of new services and new distributors. We are more confident than we have ever previously
been in the ability of our business to deliver continuing satisfactory results.
Peter Nutting
Chairman
22 May 2008