 2   Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business overview
The Group made solid progress during the year, reporting 
increased revenues of  2.45m, up 42% against the 
underlying revenues of  1.72m in the prior year (reported 
revenue for the prior year included  0.35m related to a non-
recurring acquired project).  
The Avacta Analytical division, which is aimed at reducing 
costs and risks associated with biopharmaceutical drug 
development, shipped and installed fourteen Optim units 
which contributed to a 150% increase in revenue in the 
Group's analytical business to  1.24m (2010:  0.50m).
Within the Avacta Animal Health division, revenue from the 
Group's veterinary diagnostics service business remained 
flat at  1.21m (2010:  1.22m). Technical issues encountered 
in the manufacturing scale up of the plastic consumable 
cartridge for AX-1, the diagnostic device aimed at delivering 
rapid test results at the point of care in both the veterinary 
and human health sectors, have delayed the commercial 
launch of the product into the vet market and, accordingly, 
that device has not yet contributed to the Group's revenue. 
Chairman's & 
Chief Executive Officer's 
Report Avacta Group plc   3
Avacta Analytical  
Avacta Analytical provides high-end analytical 
instrumentation, consumables and services to the 
biopharmaceutical sector.  Commercialisation of its lead 
product, Optim, has advanced very strongly during the 
year.  Fourteen units were shipped during the period 
which was ahead of expectations and the Group now 
has installed units across all major geographies.  Revenue 
from Optim and its consumable cartridge advanced 
substantially to  0.81m (2010:  0.05m).
Order intake during the first quarter of the current financial year 
is strong with a further eight sales confirmed.  The sales pipeline 
has also continued to strengthen which supports the Directors 
confident view for the longer term prospects for Optim in its 
markets.
The Group sells direct in the UK and during the 2011 financial year 
has put in place four distributors to cover export markets:
   Isogen Life Sciences (ISL ) became mainland Europe 
distributor in September 2010 and is a well established 
and respected distributor of instruments, reagents and 
consumables in the areas of cell biology, molecular biology 
and biochemistry.  Accordingly ISL has strong relationships 
with a large number of biopharmaceutical and biotech 
customers throughout Europe.  Avacta chose ISL as the 
European distributor for Optim because of its strong track 
record in sales into the biopharmaceutical development 
area and ISL's strong commitment to high quality customer 
support.
   Agreement was made with Pall Corporation (Pall ) in 
February 2011 for distribution of Optim in North America 
and this has recently been extended to include the South 
East Asian markets.  Pall is a leader in filtration, separation 
and purification providing solutions to meet the critical 
fluid management needs of customers across the broad 
spectrum of life sciences and industry.  Pall Life Sciences, the 
subsidiary with whom the distribution agreement has been 
made, provides cutting-edge products and services to meet 
the demanding needs of customers discovering, developing 
and producing biotech drugs, vaccines and classic 
pharmaceuticals.  During May 2011 a separate agreement 
was signed with Pall to include the marketing and provision of 
a global analytical services collaboration.
   Cold Spring Biotech Corp (CSB ) became Avacta Analytical's 
representative in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan in February 
2011 and is a market leading life sciences distribution 
company with commercial operations throughout Hong 
Kong and mainland China (offices in Beijing, Shanghai, 
Guangzhou, Chengdu, and Wuhan).  Founded in 1983, CSB 
is an established distributor with many years of experience 
in selling high value instrumentation and consumables in the 
rapidly growing Asian Biotech and Life Sciences market, 
representing major technology innovators such as Affymetrix 
and Caliper Life Sciences.
   DKSH Japan partnered Avacta Analytical in March 2011 to 
distribute Optim in Japan and has nearly 50 years experience 
in supporting the Japanese pharmaceutical industry through its 
dedicated technology business unit. 4   Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Growth in the recurring consumables revenues from Optim 
is a key performance target for Avacta Analytical.  This will 
be achieved through an increase in the installed base of 
units and expansion of the range of applications delivered by 
the technology to encompass a broader range of solutions 
in addition to high throughput formulation and stability.  A 
programme to take cost out of the Optim unit and the 
associated consumable is ongoing and is on schedule to 
deliver margin improvement for 2012.   
Revenues from contract services remained flat at  0.43m 
(2010:  0.45m).
Avacta Animal Health
Avacta Animal Health provides diagnostic products, reagents 
and services for the $1.5bn global veterinary diagnostics 
market. Its aim is to equip veterinary professionals with high 
quality animal health and well-being information, through 
point of care diagnostics, reagents and testing kits and 
laboratory based testing.  Its lead product, the AX-1 point 
of care immunoassay system, is aimed at providing the 
veterinarian with rapid serological blood test results in the 
clinic.  Technical issues encountered in the manufacturing 
scale up of the injection moulded plastic consumable 
cartridge used in the AX-1 have delayed the commercial 
launch of the product by approximately nine months.  These 
technical issues have now been resolved and AX-1 will take 
centre stage on Avacta Animal Health's stand at London Vet 
Show during November 2011.  
The initial range of tests that will be provided to run on 
the AX-1 for canine, feline and equine healthcare relates 
to Avacta's world leading allergy testing brand Sensitest  
and its acute phase protein tests acquired in 2010 with 
Reactivlab, the Glasgow University Veterinary School spin-
out. Expansion of the AX-1 test menu beyond this initial 
range is key to supporting the growth of recurring revenue 
and extensive clinical and commercial work over the past 
year has delivered a candidate panel of twelve further 
diagnostics tests split equally between companion animal 
and equine healthcare applications. Avacta Animal Health 
will be providing these tests for the AX-1 platform as quickly 
as possible and with current resources expects to be able to 
develop two or three new tests per year.
Revenues from diagnostic testing services remained flat at 
 1.21m (2010:  1.22m).  
The integration of the Reactivlab operation into the Animal 
Health business has progressed well.  The first two products 
derived from the Reactivlab intellectual property - test 
reagent kits for the c-reactive protein in dogs and haptoglobin 
in dogs and cats - are completed and a further two similar 
acute phase protein test reagent kits are in the pipeline.  The 
two completed tests are for the most common and clinically 
informative of the acute phase proteins in these animals 
for the early detection of acute or chronic inflammation or 
infection.  The global market for these tests is expected to 
be substantial and to grow as they become more widely 
available to vets.  The Group has identified, and is now 
working closely with, a substantial partner that is expected 
to provide a global route to market for these and other new 
products.
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report Continued Avacta Group plc   5
Financial overview
Adjusted revenue grew 42% to  2.45m (2010:  1.72m, after 
excluding a non-recurring element of  0.35m).  This included 
 1.24m from Avacta Analytical (2010:  0.50m) assisted 
by the contribution of the fourteen Optim installations and 
associated consumables revenue and  1.21m (2010: 
 1.22m) from Avacta Animal Health.  The additional revenue 
contributed positively to the continued investment in product 
development and the adjusted operating loss reduced as a 
result to  0.92m (2010:  1.53m).  Reported operating loss 
was reduced to  1.13m (2010:  2.03m) with non-recurring 
administrative expenses, amortisation of intangible assets 
and share based payment charges reducing to  0.20m 
(2010:  0.50m).
Development expenditure capitalised during the year was 
 0.88m (2010:  1.04m) and net intangible assets increased 
to  9.30m (2010:  8.55m) after amortisation of  0.13m 
(2010:  0.11m).
The Group recognised  0.52m of R&D tax credits during the 
year which reduced the loss retained to only  0.59m (2010: 
 1.88m).  Accordingly, loss per share reduced to 0.04 pence 
(2010: 0.15 pence).
The Group reported cash balances of  1.77m (2010: 
 1.43m) following its fund raise during January 2011 when it 
raised  1.95m at a price of 1.05 pence per share.
Outlook
The Board is very pleased to report on the substantial 
commercial and financial progress made by Avacta during 
the last financial year.  Avacta Analytical has now established 
a global network of high quality distributors to accelerate 
the penetration of Optim into its target markets and this is 
working well and starting to reap substantial rewards.  We 
have taken a further eight orders already this year, ahead 
of target, and the pipeline for the longer term continues to 
strengthen markedly. The extension of our Optim distribution 
agreement with Pall into South East Asia is further validation 
of the product and its potential and we are delighted also to 
be extending our collaboration with Pall into joint analytical 
services. There is scope to improve the margins of both 
the Optim units and consumables and these development 
programmes are underway and on schedule to deliver 
benefits during 2012. 
Avacta Animal Health has now resolved the technical 
problems related to the injection moulding of the AX-1 
consumable cartridge and the Group will be showcasing the 
product at the London Vet Show during November 2011. We 
can now push forwards and get AX-1 into the hands of vets 
after what has been a frustrating delay. 
The Group has clear visibility on its short and long term 
commercial, technical and financial objectives and has a 
solid platform from which to achieve them. We are focused 
on commercialising our first two innovative products and on 
growing the recurring revenue streams by expanding our 
Optim applications and AX-1 test menu. By continuing to 
grow our range of proprietary reagents for diagnostic and 
analytical tests that go through our products we will add 
value to the Group in the long term and will drive margin 
growth in the near term; this is therefore an important aspect 
of our growth strategy. As our first two products transfer 
into commercialisation we will also be able to consider the 
next phase of product development and we look forward 
to updating the market on these opportunities to accelerate 
growth in the future.
Gwyn Humphreys  Alastair Smith 
Chairman  Chief Executive Officer
24 October 2011