 The future: strategic 
developments in retail
The backdrop of technology-driven change 
in the retail sector becomes a more insistent 
drumbeat every day. Boundaries between 
the online and offline world are becoming 
blurred. The challenge, and opportunity,  
for retailers is not just to have (and be able 
to operate across) multiple channels. It is  
to meet the rapid changes in consumer 
behaviour that we are seeing as technology 
opens up new horizons for them. The capacity 
for consumers to communicate instantly with 
each other, with us and with other retailers  
is driving completely different expectations 
for service levels, choice, convenience, 
indeed the whole shopping experience.  
A level of customisation and personalisation, 
unthinkable a decade ago is becoming  
the norm. 
Consequently, being a leading retailer  
today is not a guarantee of value creation 
tomorrow. We need to ensure that we are 
tomorrow's leading retailer. We had already 
set ourselves on the path to becoming a 
leading multichannel retailer to meet this 
challenge. The accelerating evolution of 
customer behaviours reinforces us in this 
choice of direction and has led us in the  
past year progressively to intensify our actions 
to deliver this end. This includes not only 
ensuring a more seamless service for 
customers but also a business which matches 
more closely what they want, for example by 
making our larger stores more compelling 
destinations in their own right as well as 
ensuring we offer more convenience stores.
Strategic change requires investment.  
Our task is to allocate resources to compete 
effectively in today's market while giving 
priority to ensuring that we emerge as 
winners in the coming multichannel, 
customer-centric market. Your Board is 
extremely focused on the need to manage 
this balance between current and future 
returns with great care, optimising both 
without imperilling either. The business  
is taking decisive steps to free up capital 
and operational resources, but for the  
time being the imperative of securing the 
longer-term future means that our current 
financial performance remains constrained.
Other business priorities
In my foreword last year, I said:
 Our strategic choices are defined by  
three parameters: the strength of the 
T esco brand; the internet and all the 
associated developments it is driving;  
and the potential to leverage our skill  
and scale internationally... 
I have remarked on the fundamental 
re-orientation of the business to meet 
the changes being driven by the internet. 
Let me say a word about brand; and about 
how we view our international businesses.
Sir Richard Broadbent
Chairman
Continuity and change 
This has been an important year for T esco. 
There has been a great deal to occupy us in 
relation to current trading as weak markets 
and intense competition persist. At the 
same time, we continue to reshape the 
business to address the fundamental 
changes taking place in the retail market. 
The challenging trading conditions of  
the past year have impacted profits and 
necessarily remain a focus of management 
attention. We continue to devote a lot of 
energy and creativity to creating products 
and services which customers want to  
buy at prices they find attractive, through 
whichever channel they choose and  
which leave them wanting to visit us again. 
We have continued to focus on improving 
the experience for customers with 
continued investment in colleagues,  
a big programme of store refurbishment, 
significant investment in quality and a 
renewal of product ranges, including  
the entire finest* range, and a continued 
emphasis on Building a Better T esco in  
the widest sense of the term.
More broadly, however, it has been a  
year when your company has moved  
from addressing existing business issues  
to driving our strategy for future growth  
and value. There is never a year in which a 
business focuses solely on one or the other. 
But it is fair to say that at some point in the 
past year the balance of where our energies 
and resources are focused tipped from 
addressing past issues to investing in the 
future. We remain focused on the present 
but we are starting to quicken our pace into 
the future.
 Being a leading retailer 
today is not a guarantee of 
value creation tomorrow. 
We need to ensure that  
we are tomorrow's  
leading retailer. 
Visit www.tescoplc.com/ar2014  
to hear more from Sir Richard Broadbent 
and other members of the leadership team
Other information Governance Financial statements Strategic report
 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 01
Chairman's statement through levels of transparency and 
disclosure which are undoubtedly now 
world-leading.
We were pleased to welcome Mark Armour 
to the Board in September last year and the 
expertise, rooted in a long business career, 
that he brings to our discussions. 
We announced on 4 April that Laurie 
McIlwee had resigned from his position  
as Chief Financial Officer. I would like to 
thank Laurie for his contribution to Tesco 
over the last 14 years. Together with Philip 
and the wider team, Laurie has played an 
important role in our process to transform 
Tesco and position it to be a winner in the 
new era of retailing. I and the Board wish 
him every success for the future.
Financial results
Our task is to deliver value to our shareholders 
and we hold this goal in mind in all our 
deliberations. The trade-offs at the present 
time are not straightforward and we 
continually track the balance between future 
value and current return, seeking to ensure  
an optimum balance between the two in the 
context of the rapid changes which the retail 
sector is experiencing. This is reflected in a 
number of one-off write-offs associated with 
significant business or market developments 
and in our results generally which have  
again been held back by the factors I have 
described. Revenues from continuing 
operations were broadly flat and underlying 
profit fell by (6.9)%. We understand the 
importance of the dividend to our 
shareholders and our confidence in the 
strategic choices we are making is reflected  
in an unchanged dividend.
Conclusion 
In pursuing our goals, the most important 
resource we have is our colleagues who are 
the ones who work unfailingly to anticipate 
and meet the needs of customers, and I 
and the whole Board are grateful to each 
and every one of them for all that they do.
The future is a retail world where retailers 
will need to operate across multiple 
channels while meeting wholly different 
customer expectations for service levels, 
choice, convenience and overall experience. 
You may be assured that we will compete 
hard in the current market but the bigger 
prize we seek on your behalf is to utilise  
the unique assets and resources of T esco  
to ensure we emerge as leaders in the 
future world of retailing.
Sir Richard Broadbent
Chairman
The Tesco brand
Re-building the T esco brand to become 
synonymous again with value, choice and 
quality, to be seen again as unerringly on 
the customers' side, is central to our future. 
In the multichannel world we are moving 
into, what you are known for will be  
as important as the channels through  
which you sell. We have and will continue 
therefore the patient work to strengthen 
trust in our brand. This is not without its 
cost but we believe it is as important an 
investment as any other part of our strategy.
Values are central to any brand and last  
year we took the major step of introducing 
a new Value: we use our scale for good.  
This is evidently a long-term project but  
the year has seen the first steps taken to 
embed this sentiment as a touchstone  
of the business. These are reported in  
more detail in our separate update of 
T esco and Society  which is being 
published alongside this report.
International 
Our priority is to deliver value to our 
shareholders. The last two years or so have 
seen us address tough decisions in relation 
to the international business. That said, we 
continue to see opportunity to create value 
internationally by leveraging our skills and 
scale in relatively rapidly growing economies 
with less developed modern retail sectors 
where the rate of economic growth coupled 
with switching to modern retail outlets can 
generate attractive returns. 
Such opportunities need to be taken with 
focus, flexibility and care. The completion  
in the past year of our exit from the US 
underpins the importance of piloting new 
ventures; of being open to partnership 
especially in new markets; to selecting 
rigorously those markets that meet 
tightly-drawn criteria for investment; and  
to ensure close management and control 
of the investments. Many of our choices 
this year, to enter partnerships in China and 
India or to invest modestly in an internet 
start-up in South East Asia, reflect this 
philosophy of establishing a position of 
opportunity and testing returns against our 
criteria as a basis for building long-term, 
value-enhancing positions.
Governance
In common with other public companies, 
we are meeting this year new standards  
of disclosure. Our Remuneration Policy  
is set out on pages 41 to 61 for 
shareholders to consider. Our accounts  
as a whole have been considered by the 
Board in the light of the new test to be  
fair, balanced and understandable.   
We have taken seriously the spirit as  
well as the letter of the new Regulations,  
which are seeking to build trust between 
the corporate sector and society generally 
 The future is a retail world 
where retailers will need  
to operate across multiple 
channels while meeting 
wholly different customer 
expectations for service 
levels, choice, convenience 
and overall experience. 
02 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 
Chairman's statement continued