 new windows and doors, which is a disappointment after
all the initial hype.
In the house building sector we have recently seen some
strong growth statistics from the major house builders as
consumer demand has increased. However, our sales
are more aligned to the social housing sector where local
authorities and housing associations tend to specify
mechanical ventilation with heat recovery (MVHR ) in far
greater volumes than in the private sector. In the social
housing sector the National House Building Council
published statistics showing the number of housing
registrations by builders before they start on site for each
quarter over the last 7 years. These statistics clearly
show the peak of social house building in 2011 of over
40,000 and a subsequent fall of 37% in 2012, but they
show an increase of 35% from the 2012 financial year to
The state of the UK economy clearly has a major role to
play in our fortunes as our revenue is largely UK centric.
In the UK we are principally interested in the replacement
doors and windows market and the house building part
of the construction sector. In the replacement doors and
windows market the first half of the financial year saw
activity levels fall by about 4% versus the same period
last year, but during our third quarter replacements
increased by 8.5% and by 9.5% in our fourth quarter.
These industry statistics, published by FENSA, do reveal
that there has been some improvement in consumer
spending on such big ticket items as windows and
doors, albeit that these growth numbers are the first
evidenced since before the banking crash in 2008. 
We have not seen any evidence that the Government's
Green Deal policy has led to this increased demand for
I am very pleased that the Group Profit before Tax of  505,000 has improved so
significantly from the loss last year of  984,000. The overriding objective of the
Directors has been to restore your Company to profitability and the results have
reflected this. As I mentioned in our 2013 Interim Statement the improvement in our
first half trading position was largely due to two factors: the improved return from our
Korean operations and the cash settlement that we received from Nuaire Limited. 
In the second half we have continued to see good returns from Korea whilst the UK
trading position has also improved.
Trading Commentary
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
Net cash balances at the year end were  2.12 million
(2012:  1.81 million) and total capital expenditure during
the year was  408,000 (2012:  632,000). 
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0p per
share (2012: 0.5p). This, when added to the interim
dividend paid on 24 June 2013 gives a total for the year of
2.0p (2012: 1.5p).  If approved by shareholders at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be
payable on 21 February 2014 to shareholders on the
register on 24 January 2014. The ex dividend date is 
22 January 2014. 
The result for the year to 30 September 2013
is a net Profit before Taxation of  505,000
(2012: Loss of  984,000), on Revenues 8.3 %
higher at  15.7 million (2012:  14.5 million).
The Profit after Taxation is  476,000 (2012:
 737,000 Loss) resulting in Earnings per
Share of 2.87p (2012: Loss per Share of 6.83p).
Financial Performance
Chairman's Statement
2
Wi City Korea, with
Titon ventilators
installed  Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
As I noted in the Interim Statement this result has been
due to higher sales to the private house building sector
compared to 2012 and this has continued in the second
half. We continue to work with our Korean partners to
develop new products for them and to support them
wherever we can. 
Trading profits for our business largely reflect the
revenues that are discussed above. Our UK trading
business has incurred a loss of  0.42m in the year, which
is significantly reduced from last year. The payment from
Nuaire Limited has been recorded in the Other Income
line in the Income Statement, but it is appropriate for us
to regard it as compensation for the losses that the
Ventilation Systems business suffered due to the alleged
infringement of our intellectual property. If we include that
compensation with the trading result then the loss in the
UK is reduced to  0.19m for the year. In Korea the return
from our subsidiary Titon Korea Limited, when added to
our share of profits of our associate Browntech Sales
Limited has resulted in a profit before tax of  0.69m in
the year versus a loss of  0.09m in the last financial year.
As I have noted above we are delighted with the
progress that our partners in Korea have made this year
and we are very grateful for all their hard work. Since the
year end Browntech Sales Co. Limited has been able to
repay its loans from Titon that were advanced during the
early stages of our partnership in Korea.
Sales into all other countries have risen by 7% during the
period compared to the last financial year. Demand has
continued to be sluggish, but sales in Denmark have
improved and sales to the US have also risen slightly.
the current year. We have certainly seen this trend
reflected in the quarterly results of our business during
this financial year. Within the private sector we have seen
that some house builders have actually moved away
from MVHR at times in the last year as they can achieve
an acceptable level of building energy efficiency using
alternative technologies. We are also concerned at the
recent announcement by the Government that it plans to
abolish the Code for Sustainable Homes. This would
represent a real blow to the house building industry's
efforts to build energy efficient homes. It is clear from the
Gross Domestic Product numbers which have been
published in 2013 that the British economy has finally
started growing again and I welcome that. However,
some recent statistics showing the state of household
finances reveal a contraction in conditions in the retail
sector and a dampening of consumers' appetites for big
ticket purchases, which illustrates that the recovery is 
not guaranteed.
I now turn to the results of our businesses during the
period. UK revenues have continued to be slow and have
fallen by 5.8% against last year to  10.6m. Both sales of
hardware and ventilation systems products have struggled
during the year as the continued weakness in the UK
economy affected our trading, although we did see a small
increase in revenues for the second half year. We will
continue to work hard on introducing new products for our
UK business and are devoting considerable resources to
achieving this. A significant amount of work has been
carried out by our Design and Research & Development
teams during the year and we hope that these efforts will
be rewarded in increased sales in the future. We will
continue to develop new products and there are plenty of
new ideas that we will be working on in 2014.
The star performer for us has undoubtedly been our
business in Korea, which saw an increase in revenues
of 91.7% from  1.9m in 2012 to  3.7m in the current period.
The star performer for
us has undoubtedly
been our business 
in Korea, which saw
an increase in
revenues of 91.7%
from  1.9m in 2012
to  3.7m in 2013
3
Titon Overture E
Window Handles
Titon 
Vent-Trex
ventilator
Recently launched
Titon HRV1.25 Q Plus
Titon Trimvent Xtra S13 Ventilator Chairman's Statement
(continued)
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
On behalf of the Board 
K A Ritchie
Chairman
5 December 2013
However, we will remain cautious about the recovery until
we see a continuing pick up in sales of our products. 
We have anticipated higher demand in the past and have
been left with higher overheads when the demand
proved to be fickle.
We expect that Korea will have another good year and
that our sales will show an increase from this year's
performance. We have been working with our Korean
partners on some new products, which are now being
fitted to show homes. If the Korean economy continues
to grow at its current rate, which will help in the level of
individual and government indebtedness being kept
under control, we anticipate another good return from
our investment.
In export markets we will look to specific countries to
increase our sales and we now have in place the
products and people to increase sales of our mechanical
products in world markets.
Titon has consistently had a strong balance sheet with very
good asset backing and we do not expect any change to
this situation in 2014. We will invest cash in our business to
ensure that we can continue to meet customer demands,
but when introducing new products there can be delays
between having stock in the warehouse and winning new
business from our customers.
We are very close to unveiling our new website for internet
sales, TitonDirect, which will allow us to sell initially over
300 products from our range to customers online. We
anticipate increasing this offering early next year. We have
seen that a vast range of items are now being sold online
and there is no reason why our products should not also
be offered in this way and we will increase our marketing
effort in this direction.
In conclusion, we believe that the strength of your
Company and the improved economic conditions in the
UK should result in another profitable year ahead, but we
will remain cautious on these prospects until solid
evidence of the UK recovery is reflected in our results.
We are encouraged that the UK economy is now growing again after a long period of
stagnation and we hope that this will lead to increased consumer confidence. 
This should feed through into higher sales of our window and door products.
Prospects
4
Employees
Employee numbers within the Group have
risen from 163 at the beginning of the year
to 178 at 30 September 2013.
The majority of this increase was in our business in
Korea, where business has been very strong during the
period and the rest of the increase has been in our UK
manufacturing operation where we have taken on
additional staff to ensure that our customer demands
can be satisfied. We have also taken on several
apprentices this year under the Government's
apprenticeship programme and we very much hope that
they have long and rewarding careers with Titon.
It has been another difficult year for all of our employees
as they have adjusted to the weak trading conditions
experienced in the UK. I would like to thank them for their
hard work during the year and I fully recognise that they
make a very large contribution to the success of the
Company because if our employees don't design,
manufacture, sell or service our products then we don't
have a business.
Aerial shot of Titon's
UK factory in
Haverhill Suffolk