 2 TOLEDO MINING CORPORATION PLC
Chairman's statement
Reginald Eccles
Chairman
The past 18 months have been a particularly busy time for Toledo
Mining Corporation plc as we have sought to progress the
development of our nickel interests in the Philippines.
During the first half of the financial year, Berong Nickel Corporation
(BNC ), in which Toledo has a 56.1% economic interest, shipped
143,765 wet metric tonnes (wmt ) of nickel ore to Queensland
Nickel Pty Ltd (QNP ) in Australia, generating US$3.3 million net
revenue. All shipments were made from the stockpile accumulated
at site prior to the Berong mine being placed on care and
maintenance during the worst months of the global banking crisis. 
However, shortly after BHP Billiton announced in July 2009 that it
had sold the Yabulu refinery to an entity controlled by Professor Clive
Palmer, QNP advised BNC that it would not be taking any more
shipments from Berong. This action deprived Berong of very
substantial future revenue and resulted in the loss of several hundred
jobs at Berong. Needless to say, BNC disputes the legitimacy of QNP's
action and will be seeking compensation through the appropriate
mechanism set out in the contract.
For the financial year to 31 March 2010, Toledo reported pre-tax
losses of  1.98 million, and loss per share including associated
companies' results of 4.74 pence. These compared respectively to
 1.91 million profit and fully diluted earnings per share of 5.48
pence for 2009.  
The reported 2010 loss was after interest earned on cash holdings
and outstanding US$-denominated loans to Philippine partners of
 0.69 million, and exchange rate losses of  0.71 million on those
loans. Excluding exchange losses, Toledo recorded a pre-tax loss of
 1.27 million, of which the share of associated companies' losses in
the Philippines accounted for  0.86 million. During the year, Toledo
continued to fund not only its share of operating expenses in the
Philippine projects but also those of our Philippine partners under
the terms of existing loan agreements. As a consequence, the Group
consumed cash of  2.22 million during the financial year and held
cash of  3.91 million as at 31 March 2010.
Shortly after the commencement of our financial year, we
announced that Daintree Resources Limited had acquired 20% of
the share capital of Toledo through on market purchases. In July
2009, following the share placement to existing and new
shareholders that raised  3.36 million before expenses, Jason Cheng,
a co-owner of Daintree, was elected to the Board. Jason is the
managing partner of a private equity group operating out of Hong
Kong which invests in energy and mineral resources throughout the
Asian region. With this development, Toledo gained not only a
financially strong supportive shareholder but, even more importantly,
access to a team of regional specialists capable of making a
significant contribution to the development of our business. The
present negotiation with Jinchuan Group Limited (Jinchuan ),
discussed below, is a case in point.
As a result of subscription to the placing, Daintree's holding in Toledo
increased to 24% and Toledo welcomed yet another important
shareholder to its register - Fevamotinico SARL, a company
controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago. Mr Zhevago is probably best
known as the CEO and majority shareholder of Ferrexpo, the
Ukrainian iron ore miner and iron pellet producer which is listed on
the London Stock Exchange and has a market capitalisation of some
 1.8 billion. Mr Zhevago already has an interest in the nickel industry
by virtue of a ferronickel business he is developing in Macedonia.
The funds raised in the placing have been, and continue to be,
applied to an exploration programme at Berong, securing the right
to mine the Ipilan deposit through a Declaration of Mine Feasibility 
and general working capital requirements. 
At Berong, the target is to increase the JORC resource from the
current 10 million dry metric tonnes (dmt ) to the 40 million dmt
considered necessary to support a value-added process plant. A
drilling programme at Berong commenced in February 2010 and is
expected to take around 12 months.
Permitting for a mining operation at Ipilan is at a very advanced
stage. All the four local councils (barangays ), the municipality and
the province within which Ipilan is located have endorsed our
Under the proposed agreement, Jinchuan will inject funds 
into Toledo by taking a 29.9% equity interest in the company 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2010
proposed operation. The mandatory environmental study and
Declaration of Mine Feasibility (akin to a pre-feasibility study) have
been submitted to the relevant authorities and await review and sign
off. It is anticipated that Ipilan will receive all the necessary consents
so that it will be in a position to commence the development of a
mining operation in 2011; the actual commencement date will be
dependent upon securing  profitable, long-term ore supply contracts.
While these developments have been progressing, Toledo has
continued to seek long-term direct ore shipping (DOS ) supply
contracts which would justify restoring operations at Berong.
Although DOS demand by Chinese pig nickel operators has
increased during the past year, the major part of this has been for
low nickel/high iron ore (typically containing less than 1% nickel and
45%-plus iron), primarily as a substitute for high priced iron ore.
Berong has received enquiries for its ore, which has a much higher
nickel content, but thus far the prices offered have been insufficiently
attractive to justify restarting the mine. Since the end of the reporting
period, however, there have been signs that prices are beginning to
improve and, if this trend continues, mining operations could resume
at Berong in 2011.
Toledo has always recognised the benefit that a strong strategic
industrial partner can bring to realising the full potential of its nickel
interests. When European Nickel plc (European Nickel ) acquired
19.3% of Toledo and 18.7% of BNC in June 2008, the expectation
was that this would result in a fairly rapid development of a heap
leaching operation at Berong, utilising European Nickel's technology.
Later that same month, Toledo announced the signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU ) with Jiangxi Rare Earth &
Rare Metals Tungsten Group (JXTC ) for the development of a
nickel leaching plant using Ipilan ore to serve a nickel refinery JXTC
planned to build in China.
The global banking crisis and the accompanying collapse in the
nickel price prevented any immediate implementation of these plans,
and both European Nickel and JXTC have subsequently found it
necessary to reassess their priorities. European Nickel, which recently
merged with Rusina Mining, has two major projects to finance and
develop - Caldag in Turkey and Acoje in the Philippines. Although
European Nickel still has an 18.7% stake in BNC, its equity interest
in Toledo has been reduced to 7.1%.
JXTC has not yet begun construction of its planned nickel refinery.
At the end of April this year, it was announced that Chinalco, the
major Chinese aluminium and copper producer, was to take a 51%
stake in the nickel refinery project and had government approval to
acquire JXTC itself. Seemingly good news for Toledo, it is now clear
however that JXTC will not progress the MoU until its ownership
position is resolved, nor is there any certainty that Chinalco will wish
to do so if it does acquire JXTC.
Toledo has not been idle in seeking other strategic partners, and
after the end of the financial year, in July 2010, we signed an MoU
Drilling at Berong.
Local community education project for children.
Logging core samples. 4 TOLEDO MINING CORPORATION PLC
with Jinchuan, China's largest producer of primary nickel and one
of the world's leading producers. Like many other nickel sulphide
producers, Jinchuan recognises the need to access the more plentiful
nickel laterite resources, and those in the Philippines could not be
better located to support its ambitious expansion plans. 
Under the proposed agreement, Jinchuan will inject funds into
Toledo by taking a 29.9% equity interest in the Company, and will
offer Toledo and its joint venture partners long-term ore supply
contracts from 2013 as well as the opportunity to participate in
downstream processing. Your Board is very excited about this
proposed strategic alliance and, provided all parties to the agreement
are satisfied with the terms, expects a definitive agreement to be
signed before the end of 2010.
In March this year, we appointed Ken Stein as Toledo's Chief
Operating Officer and General Manager in the Philippines. Ken
replaced Tim Ashworth as Chief Executive of TMM Management Inc
(TMM ), the company responsible for managing the day-to-day
operations in the Philippines on behalf of both Toledo and our
partners, and is a valuable addition to our management team. Ken
has over 30 years' engineering and technical experience in the
mining industry, and was previously responsible for managing
European Nickel's participation in the Acoje heap leach nickel project
in the Philippines. I would like to take this opportunity to express the
Board's appreciation and gratitude to Tim Ashworth, and indeed to
the whole TMM management team who have worked diligently
throughout what has been an extremely busy and challenging period
for our Company.
Finally, I wish to thank our shareholders for their continuing support
as the nickel market, like other global markets, slowly recovers from
the exceptionally severe economic downturn. We have made
encouraging progress towards securing Toledo's future as a major
value-added nickel producer, and I look forward to updating you
over the coming year as we achieve further important milestones on
that journey.
Reginald Eccles
Chairman
23 August 2010
The TMM management team.