 04
Chairman's statement and Chief Executive's review
Dear shareholder,
2008 was a challenging year for all of Tomkins' businesses.
In the first half of the year, automotive OE and residential
construction markets were the weakest, while industrial,
automotive aftermarket and non-residential construction
all posted good results. During the second half, all of
our markets weakened, with the speed of decline
accelerating towards the end of the year. All of our
geographic markets have experienced a slowdown, with
the worst declines concentrated in the western
economies, most notably the US and Europe. Two of our
end markets, US automotive OE and residential
construction, saw their third year of significant decline.
Housing starts (as measured by the NAHB) and North
American automotive production (as measured by CSM,
light vehicle unit volumes) fell by 33% and 16%
respectively over 2008. Emerging economies also
experienced a slowdown, affected by declines in
consumer confidence and the availability of credit.
In February 2008, Tomkins initiated Project Eagle, a three-
year performance improvement programme to address
the cost base and improve competitiveness. In light
of the current and expected market conditions, we
have announced more extensive actions to reset our
manufacturing footprint to lower-cost locations and further
take advantage of opportunities in higher growth markets.
These initiatives are referred to as Project Cheetah.
Earlier in 2008, we announced our decision to present
the Group's financial statements in US dollars,
commencing in 2008. This is the first Annual Report
presented in this manner.
Results
Sales from continuing operations decreased by 6.3% to
$5,515.9 million (2007: $5,886.1 million) and adjusted
operating profit fell by 24.0% to $403.4 million (2007:
$530.5 million). Adjusted operating margin was 7.3%
(2007: 9.0%).
Cash generated from operations was $628.7 million
(2007: $638.7 million). Operating cash flow increased by
$1.0 million to $442.8 million (2007: $441.8 million).
In 2008, the Group incurred a diluted loss per share on
continuing operations of 7.29 cents (2007: earnings per
share of 40.91 cents). Adjusted diluted earnings per share
were 26.02 cents (2007: 37.14 cents).
Dividend
In these difficult economic conditions, the Board
considers that it is important to strike a balance between
preserving balance sheet strength and providing a return
to shareholders. Accordingly, the Board has decided to
propose a final dividend for 2008 of 2.00 cents per share,
making a total dividend for the year of 13.02 cents per
share. For 2009, the Board has decided to target a total
dividend of around 10 cents per share, subject to the
prevailing conditions and market outlook. Looking
forward, the Board will seek to resume its progressive
dividend policy from this rebased level as soon as results
and market conditions allow.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on
1 June 2009, the final dividend will be paid on 10 June 2009
to ordinary shareholders on the register as at the close of
business on 8 May 2009.
Highlights 2008
The Group made good progress against its key priorities:
- Completed the divestment of the non-core businesses,
Stant and Standard-Thomson.
- Completed three acquisitions: in India, Singapore and the
US (the latter with operations in China). Signed a joint
venture agreement in the Middle East for the
manufacture and distribution of non-residential Air
Systems Components products.
- Announced and commenced implementation of our
performance improvement initiative, Project Eagle,
incorporating outsourcing of central functions, low-cost
country sourcing, expansion of existing restructuring
initiatives and strategic pricing initiatives.
- Identified further opportunities for restructuring our
manufacturing footprint under a new initiative, Project
Cheetah, to better position the Group for the future.
- Introduced and expanded our range of new products
including the energy recovery ventilator, the electro-
mechanical drive and the two speed variable vane
oil pumps.
- Maintained a strong balance sheet, supported by
good working capital management and reductions
in capital expenditure.
David Newlands
Chairman
James Nicol
Chief Executive 05
Chairman's statement
and Chief Executive's
review
Strategy
We continue to focus on developing energy-saving
products. With a focus on service to our customers and
distribution of our products, our capabilities and
geographic footprint continue to expand across the
globe. A summary of our strategic priorities and progress
is set out on page 3.
Outlook
The current economic and market conditions remain
challenging and uncertain, reducing visibility and making
forecasting extremely difficult.
Industrial
  North America (18.7% of Group sales)
North American industrial markets, which remained strong
in the first half of 2008 but deteriorated in the second
half and particularly the last quarter of 2008, are expected
to continue to decline due to reduced economic and
industrial activity.
  Europe (5.6% of Group sales)
Industrial activity in Europe is expected to worsen further,
with many European countries entering or continuing
in recession, coupled with continuing declines in
export demand.
  Rest of the world (5.8% of Group sales)
Industrial activity across the remainder of Tomkins'
geographic markets is expected to weaken further, as all
regions continue to be affected by reduced global demand.
Markets in China, India and Brazil are expected to continue
to grow, albeit at a lower level than in recent years.
Automotive aftermarket
  North America (10.3% of Group sales)
The automotive aftermarket is expected to be broadly
flat in 2009, with the effect of lower miles driven being
mitigated to some extent by lower gasoline prices and
the ageing vehicle population which requires a higher
level of maintenance and expenditure on repair.
  Europe (5.7% of Group sales)
European markets are expected to experience similar
trends to North American markets.
  Rest of the world (2.6% of Group sales)
The Group's other geographic markets, most notably
China and Brazil, are expected to soften and post
single-digit growth rates in 2009.
Automotive OE
  North America (9.7% of Group sales)
Automotive OE production is currently expected to
decline by around 25% in 2009.
  Europe (5.9% of Group sales)
European automotive OE production is currently
expected to decline by around 20% in 2009.
  Rest of the world (7.7% of Group sales)
The Group's other geographic markets, most notably
China, India and Brazil, are expected to post single-digit
growth rates in 2009.
Non-residential construction (15.7% of Group sales)
  US non-residential construction is expected to decline by
around 20% on a square foot basis and around 15% on
a value basis in 2009.
Residential construction (9.0% of Group sales)
  US residential construction is expected to continue its
decline, with housing starts expected to decrease by
around 30% in 2009.
Other markets include manufactured housing and
recreational vehicles and in total account for around
3.3% of Group sales.
As a consequence of the market conditions, our trading
in early 2009 has been adversely affected.
We believe that our strong market positions and the
resilience of our managers in cutting costs and improving
efficiencies, coupled with our strong balance sheet will
enable us to continue to mitigate the impact of these
difficult end markets and generate cash whilst positioning
the Group for an eventual recovery in end markets.
Impairment
In June 2008, as a result of the continued deterioration
in North American automotive OE and US residential
construction markets, the Group recognised a non-cash
impairment of $175.1 million. Management subsequently
reviewed the recoverability of assets of the Group's
businesses in light of the continued weakness in the Group's
end markets, which was compounded by an increase in
the discount rates that are required to be used for the
purpose of the impairment tests. Additional fixed asset
impairments were taken as a part of the decision to
implement Project Cheetah to restructure the manufacturing
footprint of the Group. As a consequence of these
developments, a further non-cash impairment of
$167.3 million was recognised in the second half
of 2008.
As a result, the total impairment recognised during
2008 was $342.4 million, of which $228.6 million related
to goodwill and $113.8 million to property, plant and
equipment. Goodwill allocated to Stackpole ($157.2 million)
and to Gates Mectrol ($37.4 million) was written off in its
entirety, and goodwill allocated to Selkirk was written
down by $34.0 million to $38.3 million. Stackpole's
property, plant and equipment was written down by
$65.9 million. Of the remaining $47.9 million impairment
of property, plant and equipment, $36.9 million related
to other Industrial & Automotive businesses and
$11.0 million to Building Products businesses.
Customers, investors and employees
On behalf of the Board, we would like to thank all of our
customers, suppliers, business partners and investors for
their continued support, especially under these difficult
market conditions. We look forward to continuing these
strong relationships over the forthcoming year.
The continued commitment and dedication of our
employees enables us to achieve our objectives and we
would like to thank them for their hard work and
commitment during the past year.
David Newlands James Nicol
Chairman Chief Executive
Overview