 Chairman's statement
The Club continued to receive magnificent 
support from the fans and I would like to 
pay a particular tribute to our loyal supporters
02 Chairman's statement  Tottenham Hotspur plc
Financial results
Turnover for the year was  66.3m which is similar
to that of the previous year and reflects mixed
performances both on and off the pitch. The poor
performance on the pitch had a negative impact on
the financial performance of a number of areas of
the business, but particularly on merchandising
income and the TV income dependent on our 
final league position. Turnover was  3.1m lower 
in these two areas compared with the prior year.
However, despite this, the key operating profit
figure was  9.7m against  11.0m in the prior year
before player amortisation and the profit or loss on
the sale of players' registrations, whilst this year's
retained loss improved by  3.7m from  6.4m last
year to  2.7m. During the year  15m was raised 
by the Company through the issue of 60,000
convertible redeemable preference shares, 
at  250 per share. This was a major factor 
in consolidated net assets closing at  42.3m, 
an increase on the prior year of  11.1m. 
These results, which are discussed in more detail
in the Operating and Financial Review on page 5
demonstrate the resilience of the business and
reflect the potential for growth that accompanies
improved performances on the pitch.
Overview
The 2003/04 season did not see the Club move in
the desired direction on the pitch and it was clear
that this was a situation that simply could not
remain unchecked. It was equally clear that in a
market that is often driven by short-term objectives,
we would not run the risk of taking short-term
actions as a solution. Wholesale change was
required. Our aim has been to rebuild the
infrastructure of the Club's system of football
management, coaching and development, a root
and branch series of changes, which I believe will
provide a system which can develop on the basis 
of best practice rather than by default. 
Frank Arnesen joined us as Sporting Director 
in July 2004 to add long-term vision and a
comprehensive team succession plan. He has
ultimate responsibility for overseeing the first team,
and developing and implementing the youth,
scouting, medical and international policies for the
Club that will raise our performance in all areas. 
His knowledge of the international transfer market
is excellent, as evidenced in the most recent
transfer window, and across all levels, youth and
senior. Frank has built an exceptionally promising
team around him with a refreshing new enthusiasm
and discipline.
It is important that we see a flow of development in
all positions through every age group and that the
Club is actively recruiting future potential stars at
an early age. Our philosophy is to have a mixture 
of youth and experience in the team. We were
delighted that during the 2003/04 season eight
youngsters from the Academy made their first team
debuts. Frank Arnesen is assessing our scouting
and Academy arrangements and will make any
necessary changes to ensure our performance
continues to improve. 
Within the last six months we have completely
restructured the training ground and medical 
set-up, environment and staff structure. 
Dr Charlotte Cowie joined as our new Head of
Medical Services in February 2004 from Fulham
Football Club where she was Director of Medical
Services, having previously been Chief Medical
Officer for Team GB working at the 2000 Olympics.
As part of a total revamp of this area Dr Cowie has
sought and recruited some of the best sports
medicine and physiotherapist practitioners
available. I am pleased to announce that 
Dean Kenneally has recently joined us as first team
physiotherapist, from UK Athletics where he
worked as part of the 2004 Olympics medical
team. Dean previously worked for the Australian
Institute of Sport.
Jacques Santini joined us as Head Coach in July
2004. His appointment came at the end of a long
process in which we were fortunate to be able to
assess the abilities of a significant number of first
class managers and coaches from clubs in the 
UK and across Europe. We needed to ensure 
that we had the right candidate to work within the
training ground's new structure and this required 
a coach who had operated at the highest level. 
At the close of the 2003/04 season there were a
number of three to five year contracts that expired.
The resultant future cost saving gave us the
extended financial ability to further our investment
in some of the best young talent both in the UK
and abroad. Whilst it is important to note that an
element of experience is retained, or has been
bought-in where necessary, we believe that the
continued investment that we have made during
the Summer closed season will reinforce our longer
term desire for success. Tottenham Hotspur plc Chairman's statement   03
I would like to thank David Pleat for his contribution
to the Club over the years. David has brought many
young players to this Club who have gone on to
establish themselves in the first team squad, and 
to represent their respective countries. We wish
David and his family well.
On the pitch
Since the last year-end the Club has seen a very
significant change in the make-up of the first team
squad of players, with 17 players leaving and 
21 new players joining us. An unprecedented
degree of change for any club.
The players that have left since we last reported 
to shareholders in our interim report are 
Gary Doherty, Helder Postiga, Milenko Acimovic,
Darren Anderton, Stephen Carr, Gus Poyet,
Christian Ziege and Lars Hirschfeld. We thank 
them for their service and wish them well in 
the future. 
In the same period we have welcomed Pedro
Mendes, Sean Davis, Paul Robinson, Marton Fulop,
Timothee Atouba, Rodrigo Defendi, Erik Edman,
Noureddine Naybet, Edson Silva Sousa, Michael
Carrick, Noe Pamarot, Reto Ziegler, 
Calum Davenport, Leigh Mills and Spase Dilevski.
The result of the above changes is that the Club
has spent a total of  37.5m on transfer fees for
new players since 1 July 2003. This has been
possible through the support of the Club's key
investors and the ongoing financial stability of 
the Club's operations. This level of investment
underlines the ambitions we have for the Club, 
but is clearly not sustainable.
In the last six months there has been a series of
very significant changes across all aspects of the
football club. Our collective challenge remains to
convert these changes into improved performance
in both the Premiership and the Cup competitions.
Off the pitch 
We continue to improve access, communications,
offers and services to fans and to update the
technology that facilitates this. Included within this
year's pack to shareholders is Your Spurs , report
that focuses on the many developments that took
place during the year, across all areas of the Club's
activities. There is a huge amount of work that goes
into this Club, some of which supporters may not
be fully aware, and we would urge you to read it.
Key offers to fans were the redesigned and 
revamped Season Ticket and Membership 
packages which provided our supporters with
significant improvements. Membership was
included as a benefit of the Season Ticket Holder
package and, following a successful pilot run last 
season the Members only website, Spurs Lodge,
has been launched bringing the fans news direct
from the training ground. 
The Club communication channels have been
optimised to deliver information to our supporters.
Our website performed well and industry statistics
consistently place it in the top five official
Premiership Club websites. It is relied on for
official, accurate news. Our UK television exposure
figures also show us to be consistently in the 
top six. Clearly, if we can combine this with success
on the pitch, going forward we will have the
flexibility to significantly enhance revenues.
We have continued our policy of responding to
every reasonable communication we receive 
from fans, and this year also saw the further
development of a constructive and productive
relationship with the Tottenham Hotspur 
Supporters Trust.
Our Football in the Community scheme continues
to grow and worked with over 250,000 children
during the year. Kathryn Robinson joins us from 
the Premier League, where she had responsibility
for corporate and community affairs, as Director 
of Community Development to further extend our
activities in this area.
Commercial deals concluded were with MBNA, 
our official credit card affinity partner, for a further 
five years, and Codemasters, with whom we have 
a five-year deal for the production of the official
Spurs computer game (PS2, Xbox and others),
Incite and Ladbrokes. In addition, since the year
end, we have concluded further official partner
deals with Endsleigh Insurance and Carlsberg.
Internationally, this period saw us travel to South
Africa in July 2003 as guests of the 2010 bid to
stage the World Cup. The tour was successful in
many ways, raising our profile and support in the
region. The players coached children in two of the
main townships and we were delighted when South
Africa won the bid and wish them well for 2010.
Outlook 
In our last interim report we were pleased to
announce that our key sponsor, Thomson, had
extended its relationship with the Club until 2006
and we have further developed this relationship 
to include community activities and in-resort
coaching. Clearly it is in the best interest of 
the Club to maintain stable, mutually beneficial 
and financially rewarding relationships with our
commercial partners that are also on a long-term
basis and we are pleased that our two main
sponsors, Thomson and Kappa, remain committed
to the Club until 30 June 2006. Chairman's statement (continued)
04 Chairman's statement  Tottenham Hotspur plc
With regards to our two principal capital projects,
the Academy and Stadium, we continue to explore 
the various options open to us and will inform our
shareholders and fans of any developments, when
we are in a position to do so.
Under the guidance of Frank Arnesen we now 
have in place a structure that we hope will bring 
a steady return to the winning performance we 
all desire. There is still a great deal of financial
instability in the game. The new television and
radio broadcast rights' contracts will generate 
less income than previously. Despite this, we have
invested heavily in the playing squad and training
staff during the Summer and we continue to
pursue our objectives on and off the pitch. 
Our fans
This year has seen a significant increase in 
season ticket sales against the number sold at the
beginning of last season's campaign. There is no
greater indicator of our fans' loyalty. We have now
put in place the appropriate management, players
and staff, both on and off the pitch, to demand
improvement in all areas. 
I would like to thank our supporters, shareholders
and employees for their continued support.
D. P. Levy
Chairman
4 October 2004