 TOWER RESOURCES PLC 
 
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Dear Shareholder 
Year 2007 saw progress with seismic surveys in Uganda and Namibia. The Namibia seismic data was collected in August and 
early September 2007 and is in the final stages of interpretation. A forward programme will be recommended by the operator, 
Arcadia, by the end of April 2008. There is a reasonable chance that a well will be drilled in 2009. Seismic operations in Uganda 
have been much more complex given its onshore location in the far northwest region of the country. The survey was 
completed successfully on 12 February 2008 and detailed processing of the data is currently underway. A forward programme 
is expected to be agreed in May, with two wells currently expected to be completed before the end of 2008. 
 
Significantly, Tower completed negotiations with partners that enable funding of operations to be largely covered by third 
parties in both licences. Arcadia Petroleum Limited is funding all of the future Namibia costs up to and including two wells. Orca 
Exploration Group Inc (Orca) is funding most of the Uganda seismic costs and, if it chooses to continue into the drilling 
commitment programme, it will meet most of the cost of drilling two commitment wells. Further details are given below. 
 
Your Company is now entering an exciting 1-2 year period during which the potential of its current two licences will be tested 
by wells. The potential of each licence is such that a successful exploration well in either would be classed as a company 
maker. The Company's strategy remains to concentrate on such high impact opportunities, which can largely be funded by 
farminees. This approach dictates that the exploration portfolio will remain small to avoid quality dilution. Notwithstanding, 
the Board is hoping to add a limited number of new ventures during the course of 2008. 
 
Financial Highlights 
 
Operating loss over the reporting period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 was $1,284,471. Capital expenditure was 
$7,651,416 being the capitalised expenditure on exploration studies and seismic surveys. Third party funding was agreed 
from farm-in partners to meet $8,752,398 of the total investment commitment including recovery of some back costs. Cash 
balances at year end were $5,534,815 although significant amounts will be required in the first half of 2008 to meet the cost 
of operations still underway at the end of 2007. There is sufficient capital to fund the Company's activities over at least the 
next six months and an expectation that new funds can be introduced if necessary to meet commitments for the remainder of 
2008 and 2009. 
 
Operations Summary to end of 2007 
 
Uganda 
The first half of 2007 was focused on completing technical evaluations; preparing for seismic operations; and holding 
discussions with potential funding partners. A six-month extension to the First Exploration Period, to 27 March 2008, was 
approved in February 2008. This allowed for expected delays in starting the seismic programme(the Second Exploration 
Period is now in effect). In mid-2007, a small operational organisation was put in place to manage the seismic programme led 
by Marilyn Hill, a former oil and gas banker having wide experience of working in developing countries at senior levels of 
government. 
 
While Neptune Petroleum (Uganda) Limited, Tower's Uganda operating subsidiary, prepared to conduct seismic 
operations, an Option Agreement was finalised in August with Orca Exploration Group Inc, a Toronto TSX Exchange 
listed company which operates the Songo Songo gas production and distribution venture in Tanzania. Under the terms of 
the Agreement, Orca undertook to fund 83.33% of seismic operations and certain back costs up to a contribution by them of 
$US6 million. Above a gross cost of $US7.2 million, costs were to be shared 50% each. In return for this funding, Orca has an 
option to participate in a two well drilling commitment programme, funding 83.33% of drilling costs ($10 million out of the 
first $12 million) and a like proportion of testing costs ($5 million out of the first $6 million) with cost sharing beyond the 
agreed limits to be 50% each. Orca would become a 50% Licence interest holder on committing to the drilling programme. Orca 
has an agreed period from completion of seismic processing work to make further commitments which, in effect, gives them  
until about end May 2008 to reach a decision on whether it wishes to proceed. 
 
The commencement of seismic recording was delayed until 6
th 
December 2007 because of bad weather related delays to 
programmes with other operators. After a slow, weather affected start, the programme was completed in very good time, on 
12
th
 February 2008. Additional gravity data was also recorded, to fill in gaps to the north and south of the seismic recording 
area and to provide a direct correlation with recorded seismic. 
 
Namibia 
Seismic operations began on 25
th
 August 2007 and 735 kms of 2-D seismic data were recorded in the period to 2
nd 
September 2007. The prime area of focus was in the north west of the licence where interpretation of bought seismic data had 
revealed giant structures under deep water (up to 1,500 metres) with indications of hydrocarbons. The new data is of high  TOWER RESOURCES PLC 
 
4
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (Continued) 
 
quality and a comprehensive data processing and interpretation programme was still underway at year end. 
 
On 20
th
 September 2007 the Minister of Mines and Energy of the Republic of Namibia approved the farm-out of an 85% 
interest in Tower's licence, covering offshore blocks 1910A, 1911 and 2011A, to Arcadia Petroleum Limited (Arcadia). 
The Minister also approved the transfer of the Operatorship of the Licence to Arcadia. He had previously agreed an 
extension of the initial exploration period from two years to four years to accommodate Arcadia's proposed programme. 
 
Under the terms of the farm-out, Arcadia has committed to fully fund a programme of activity in four parts which includes: 
 shooting and interpreting the recently completed 2-Dimensional seismic programme; 
 recording and interpreting a 3-Dimensional seismic programme, presently contemplated in early 2008; 
 an exploration commitment well; 
 a second well which might be an appraisal well or a second exploration well. 
 
Arcadia has the option to withdraw from its commitment at the end of each of these four stages of operation or to assign all or 
part of its interest to a third party agreeing to meet the funding commitment. In the case of withdrawal and failure to assign, 
the full 85% interest will revert to Neptune. Arcadia has also reimbursed 85% of certain historic costs to Tower amounting to 
about US$1.6 million. 
 
Arcadia Petroleum Limited is a substantial trader of oil and related products. They bring considerable financial strength to the 
licence as well as access to very relevant expertise in exploration, development and shipment of oil and natural gas. 
 
Since Year-end and Looking Forward  
 
Uganda 
The basic seismic processing is now complete and it has confirmed the structural features identified by the gravity 
interpretation. More specific processing will now be targeted at optimising and ranking specific drilling locations and 
investigating the presence of hydrocarbon indications.  This work is important to thoroughly assess and rank the probability of 
success for each well location.  Confirmation has been received that your Company is authorised to continue as the sole 
Licensee into the Second two-year Exploration Period. Orca Exploration Group is expected to decide on their future intentions 
under the terms of the Option Agreement by end-May. It is expected that a recommendation in respect to the forward 2008 
programme will be made to the Tower Board and subsequently to the Uganda Government by end-June 2008. 
 
It is particularly pleasing that the small operating organisation, comprising mostly Ugandan nationals, developed to manage 
the seismic programme has performed effectively and this promises well for the future. I am also very pleased that the local 
company's interaction with local communities has been successful and that a variety of carefully targeted social investment 
initiatives has been greatly appreciated. These socio-economic activities will be further developed during the drilling 
phase of operations with a particular emphasis on sustainability and widespread benefit. Further details on these programmes 
are given in the Directors Report. 
 
Namibia 
Comprehensive processing and interpretation of the 2-D seismic data is near completion. Results to date have confirmed that the 
giant prospects previously identified are viable exploration targets, having apparent four-way structural closure and strong 
hydrocarbon indications. However, geological modeling has indicated a potentially different reservoir type and construction 
and this changed perception is currently being built into the assessment of future programme priorities. Recommendations are 
presently expected to be finalised by Arcadia for partner and government approval by end May 2008. 
  TOWER RESOURCES PLC 
 
5
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (Continued) 
 
Corporate Outlook 
 
The year 2007 saw a great deal of positive progress for your Company.  In 2008 we will build strongly on this even though the 
first well in Uganda may be delayed to the final quarter. The procedures that need to be followed with partners and government 
are naturally time consuming and it is important to delay commitments to contractors until a definite timetable can be guaranteed. 
The delay, although disappointing, will allow minimization of well location risk and may offer opportunities to work with the 
other Operators in Uganda, to coordinate use of drilling rigs and associated services, thereby substantially reducing costs. 
Your Board is very pleased that both Uganda and Namibia are being confirmed to have company making potential thus 
avoiding too much dependence on a single project. Activity continues to identify similar high quality ground floor 
opportunities. 
 
Thank you for your continued support. 
Peter Kingston 
Chairman 
7
th
 April 2008