 TOYE & COMPANY p.l.c.
Chairman's Statement
3
RESULTS 
Turnover for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to  8,662,517 compared to  8,761,537 for the previous year.
Sales to the Ministry of Defence were higher than those achieved during 2006, the year the contract was placed. I am
pleased to say that the sales into the retail trade of buttons, cufflinks and similar accessories also increased, principally
due to the launch of new products. The difference between the sales year on year reflected a reduction in selected
export markets, due to readjustment of certain overseas agencies. This situation has been addressed during the second
half of 2007. 
UK regalia sales also reduced slightly in line with a declining market. 
Overall the company achieved a profit before tax of  28,576 compared with  44,924 for the previous year. 
DIVIDEND 
Your Board continues to consider that it would be imprudent to pay a dividend. It is more important to ensure that capital
repayments are made to the Bank to reduce our levels of indebtedness, which were incurred in part by a payment
agreed with the Trustees to wind up the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme. We are continuing to support the necessary
expenditures to improve a number of aspects of the company's operations essential to unlocking future potential. 
TRADING 
Sales to retailers have been showing steady growth since the enhancement of the Retail Division through a significant
improvement in the designs for accessories offered by The London Badge & Button Company. The accessories range
has been significantly augmented by additional product development for the exclusive KJD Jewellers range. This
Division is making substantial progress in the market place, particularly overseas. 
Whilst the export sales of military products reduced slightly, we continue to supply both quality of service and product
to the Defence Clothing Integrated Project Team of the Ministry of Defence. Sales in our traditional areas with major
customers have held steady but there has been some decline brought about by a reduction of membership in various
societies that we supply as well as the tightening of budgets in the corporate and lower profile sports markets. 
DIRECTORS, MANAGEMENT AND STAFF 
With the support of the Non Executive Directors, the appointment of two new Executive Directors to the Main Board
together with five executive appointments to the subsidiary Board of Toye, Kenning & Spencer Limited, the team
responsible for the day to day running of your company has been significantly strengthened. 
I am pleased to report that Clive Lunn has joined your company and has responsibility for the export and military sales
division. Clive is a Chartered Engineer and former Naval Commander with five years experience within The Defence
Export Service Organisation. 
During this year of change, I would wish to thank all members of staff not only for giving their continued support and
loyalty to the Management team but also for the important contribution they have made in achieving our results. 
RESTRUCTURE AND REORGANISATION 
Significant improvements to the Birmingham site have extended to the third year as anticipated and will be completed
by the year end, whilst the modernisation of production techniques will continue thereafter. 
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 
Regulations require an outline of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on your
Company's long term performance and achievement of its strategy. These risks and uncertainties arise as a result of
operational, regulatory, financial and market driven factors, or local or global pandemics. 
Operational Factors 
Brands, formats and offerings 
After several years I am pleased to say the trade marks for London Badge & Button (LBB) and KJD Jewellers (KJD)
alongside the Toye brand are becoming increasingly recognised by the more important buyers. 
Regulatory Factors 
The UK legislation, often implementation of European Union directives, enhances foreign competition, making it
increasingly easy for companies to enter the UK market whilst the playing fields are not as level as is often believed when
one competes in those same countries. 
The Government continually increases the minimum wage materially above the rate of inflation and every increase in the
minimum wage often triggers demands to retain the differentials of a structured pay policy, whilst Government taxation
policy and dubious fiscal control simply exacerbates the position of those on lower pay, increasing their demands to
achieve more than the minimum wage awarded by Government. In a mainly hand craft industry this simply adds to costs
which, taking into account increased utility, energy and Council Tax bills makes it difficult to achieve profitability,
particularly where competitors are purchasing from certain offshore suppliers where labour costs are significantly lower
and health and safety and employment legislation is not comparable. 
Streamlining the business in order to maintain some UK manufacturing capabilities is becoming more onerous with
higher value, low volume work increasingly under scrutiny. Offshore sourcing may have to contribute a disproportionate
element of any increased sales volumes and Government inspired cost increases, if they continue, may even drive
existing manufacturing capability offshore. The Government at one and the same time, wish to support SMEs, UK
employment through manufacture, protect the skill base, whilst purchasing at the lowest cost they can achieve. TOYE & COMPANY p.l.c.
Chairman's Statement (continued)
Furthermore, the first of the Government Departments in our sector has recently placed a contract direct with a Far
Eastern supplier, by-passing the presentations of UK capability and expertise. It would be most disappointing if pressure
on Government Purchasing Departments by the Treasury forced the consideration of value for money to be replaced by
lowest cost at all times. There are substantial hidden costs of unemployment caused by manufacture being transferred
abroad, in addition to the security risks that this policy gives rise to in certain military and security products. 
Market Driven Factors 
The Government programme for offloading wherever possible the meeting of their demands to a supplier based
operation, or more recently redefined  availability on demand' structure to reduce their costs, will be a challenge we shall
endeavour to meet. 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
The Company has considered the sales achieved per head of employee, including those in manufacturing, although this
is somewhat distorted by wholly factored work. The result has been:
Per Employee 2007 -  46,824 2006 -  48,406 2005 -  43,533
Earnings Per Share 2007 - 1.27p 2006 - 2.00p 2005 - 0.17p 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 
The Company is committed to a policy that recognises environmental issues in all aspects of its activities and
environmentally sensitive options are integrated in all levels of operation. Work is under way to reduce energy costs
further and usage of other commodities, for example we have moved to a closed water system rather than waste water
in the Birmingham factory within certain operations. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Board supports a high standard of Corporate Governance by adopting those features of the Code that are
appropriate. Nonetheless, they are becoming increasingly onerous and expensive. Your Board foresees further burdens
yet to come. The cost of being on AIM is a burden to remaining in the public domain. These non beneficial costs for this
business, combined with other similar issues, does question the long term benefit of your Company continuing with a
formal listing. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The Company is committed to the application of all aspects of Health and Safety at work. However, the volume of such
directives is proving to be unduly burdensome, and their purpose often seriously questioned by staff in regard to
implementation costs versus benefits derived. On April 8 2008, further legislation was initiated. 
FUTURE 
The most important factor is the quality and innovation of design to meet market demands, together with service,
delivery and quality of the final product which is essential to maintain and increase our market position. 
A new corporate image has been developed which is reflected in the presentation of this year's Annual Report and the
same image is being progressively introduced in Toye Kenning & Spencer Limited, our principal trading company. 
The emphasis is therefore to spend resources as available on developing the use of utilising the internet, targeted and
carefully selected exhibitions and advertising, mail shots, extensive networking through organisations, customised
brochures and media orientated public relations. 
The company's website www.toye.com forms part of the strategy to improve sales. This revised and updated website
will be launched mid year 2008, but some expense will be incurred whilst the other company websites are linked to this
site. 
In addition, new systems which are being considered for our design studio will provide three dimensional designs for
customer approval instead of the more traditional prototype patterns. When the software is operational, these computers
will be capable of transferring designs electronically to the cutting machines for dies, wire eroding tool making and rapid
profiling of wax patterns for casting. Digital scanning, an essential aid for reproducing existing products, will form part
of this system. 
The next two years are likely to be difficult with both a national and international recession threatening. The
strengthening of capability during this period is important to take advantage of current opportunities and to be well
placed for the upturn when it comes. 
Bryan Toye
Chairman
29 April 2008
4