  
TRACSIS PLC   |   3 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report  
 
 
Introduction 
For the third successive year since IPO in 2007, the Group 
is pleased to report on a period of further growth which 
has included the acquisition of Safety Information Systems 
Limited (SIS ) and the successful marketing of a brand 
new product line - TRACSRoster.  The Group has 
continued to invest in building our delivery and R&D 
capabilities, expanding our sales team, growing our 
organic revenue streams along with integrating the 
business offerings of RWA Rail Limited and Peeping 
Limited which were acquired in 2008 and 2009 
respectively.  Our efforts have resulted in record sales and 
a strengthened industry position. 
Set against a background of continuing economic and 
industry turmoil, which has included a change of 
government, the Group has retained a tight control of 
costs and cash management which has resulted in a 
strong balance sheet with good cash reserves and no 
debt.  Looking ahead, Tracsis is well placed for further 
growth and looks forward to reporting on the benefits of 
recent investments in the short term.  
Business overview 
Tracsis plc is a provider of resource optimisation software 
and operational planning consultancy to companies in the 
passenger transport industries (primarily passenger rail) 
within the UK and overseas markets.   
Tracsis's products and services can be broadly 
categorised into three revenue streams: resource 
optimisation software; passenger demand analysis and 
surveys; and operational and performance planning 
consultancy. The majority of these services and the 
revenue generated therein remain within the passenger 
bus and rail sector.  The Group's core product suite is 
used to automate and optimise the process by which 
labour schedules and rosters are created, allowing for this 
activity to be done with greater speed and with a higher 
degree of accuracy and efficiency than existing methods.  
Financial summary 
 
The Group achieved revenue of  2.65 million for the year, 
up 14.5% on our 2009 revenue of  2.31million and 
delivered an adjusted EBITDA* of  701,000 (2009: 
 711,000).   
 
Administrative costs excluding intangible asset 
amortisation and exceptional acquisition costs increased 
from  1.65m to  1.97m, due to the integration of the SIS 
acquisition and the investment in the Group's overhead 
base in anticipation of future growth. After taking into 
account intangible asset amortisation and exceptional 
acquisition costs, total administrative costs amounted to 
 2.07m (2009:  1.65m).   
 
* Earnings before finance income, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 
exceptional costs and share-based payment charges 
 
At 31 July 2010, the Group had cash balances of  2.55m 
(2009:  2.99m) and remains debt free. The reduction in 
cash against 2009 was largely due to the SIS acquisition 
and settlement of deferred consideration from previous 
acquisitions. The Group's operating cash generation 
remained strong. 
 
Trading for our core software products was stronger than 
anticipated and this partly reflects the growing reputation 
of Tracsis within transport circles but also demonstrates 
the continued and significant pressure on transport 
operators to increase operational efficiency and remove 
extraneous costs.   
 
Whilst software revenue was buoyant, our consultancy 
activity during the period was somewhat depressed and 
this was entirely in line with expectation given the on-going 
recession at large combined with the uncertainty in public 
spending (i.e. Network Rail) which was brought about by 
the change of government.  An unforeseen knock-on 
effect of this uncertainly was a delay to the retendering 
process for UK rail franchises.  As mentioned in our 
interim statement, this delay has resulted in no revenue 
being generated from franchise bidding during the period 
but it is testament to the Group that the overall impact on 
revenues was small given that we have outperformed 
elsewhere.  The Group anticipates franchise bidding 
activity will resume during 2011 once the Conservative 
government has carried out several pieces of strategic 
review work within the rail sector. 
 
Trading progress 
 
Software Licences and Maintenance 
 
Tracsis continues to operate a software lease licence 
business model with contracts usually lasting for the 
duration of a customer's franchise operations (typically 7 - 
10 years).  The Group continues to rely on close working 
relationships with all of the major train operating groups 
and employ a direct sales model which ensures our 
people and services and are closely aligned with the 
needs of the industry. 
 
At present there are 3 core software products that span 
the scheduling, rostering and performance management 
reporting functions of transport operations.  The Group 
also provides implementation, support and maintenance 
services for each product as customers undertake the 
software adoption process.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
4   |   Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report continued 
 
 
During the period the Group is pleased to report it has 
retained all previous software clients and has made 
progress in growing the customer base of all 3 key 
products.  Our customer list now includes East Midlands 
Trains (Stagecoach), South West Trains (Go-Ahead) and 
Transpennine Express (First Group).  We have also been 
successful in winning a major contract for our COMPASS 
product for use within Stockholm Metro and this is a major 
milestone given that Tracsis acquired this software as part 
of the purchase of Safety Information Systems in 
December 2009.  Along with the new software clients, the 
Group also carried out extensive revenue generating pilot 
work in New Zealand and the Republic of Ireland which 
the Directors believe should pave the way for additional 
software sales in the fullness of time. 
 
Consultancy and training 
 
Tracsis continues to provide a wide range of operational 
consultancy services to clients in the rail industry via its 
wholly owned subsidiary RWA Rail Ltd. These consultancy 
services include one-off engagements utilising our core 
software products but also encompass larger, more 
diverse projects which include the following elements: 
timetable planning and formulation; performance 
modelling; arbitration services; feasibility studies into new 
rail infrastructure and a variety of other ad-hoc 
management consultancy engagements. A significant part 
of the Groups' consultancy revenue is derived from rail 
franchise bidding where the RWA team provides a range 
of strategic operational advice on all aspects of a 
prospective bid. 
 
In line with expectation, demand for consultancy services 
was depressed during the past 12 months which reflects a 
tightening on government spending following the 
recession at large combined with the general uncertainty 
brought about by a change of government.  This situation 
led to several rail re-franchising processes which has been 
scheduled to take place in 2010 to be delayed until 2011 
or later - most notably East Coast, Greater Anglia and 
Essex Thameside.  However, looking ahead the Directors 
believe that 2011 will bring much needed clarity to the 
situation and continue to believe the transport industry will 
remain a key target market for both software and 
consultancy services.  Any further unforeseen delays will 
only provide a timing issue in relation to work which 
Tracsis expects to undertake as part of the re-franchising 
processes.  
 
Acquisition of Safety Information Systems Limited 
 
On 4 December 2009, the Group announced the 
acquisition of Safety Information Systems Limited (SIS) for 
cash consideration of  791,000 and the issue of 97,087  
 
 
ordinary shares in Tracsis. Safety Information Systems is 
a specialist provider of performance management 
software and develops and markets the COMPASS 
product suite (Combined Operational Management 
Performance and Safety System).  The COMPASS 
software is marketed to a wide variety of clients that 
operate within safety/performance critical environments 
which include passenger rail and can be used for a variety 
of critical reporting such as delay attribution and root 
cause analysis of safety incidents. 
 
The Directors believes SIS and the COMPASS suite have 
extensive growth potential within the transport industries 
and the acquisition meets the overall growth strategy of 
the Group in acquiring complementary  best-in-breed' 
solutions that can be developed and marketed to a 
homogenous client base under the Tracsis brand.  During 
the past 12 months the Group has begun the process of 
integrating the business operation of SIS with those of 
Tracsis and has hired key personnel to run SIS going 
forwards.   
 
Along with the acquisition of Safety Information Systems, 
the Group continues to evaluate other relevant businesses 
and technologies that have obvious synergies with Tracsis 
and remains focussed on strategic acquisitions as a 
means of growing the business in future. 
 
Outlook 
 
Tracsis has performed well in the past year and achieved 
organic growth and record sales during a period of 
unprecedented economic turmoil and industry instability. 
The acquisition of Safety Information Systems - our third 
to date - not only broadens the Group's product offering 
and customer base, but provides us access to entirely new 
markets outside passenger transport.  
 
Furthermore, the Group has expanded our sales, 
implementation, and technical development capability 
which has allowed us not only to retain all of our previous 
customers but to secure several new key accounts with 
operators such as South West Trains, East Midlands 
Trains and Transpennine Express.  Looking ahead, the 
Group remains well placed to continue its goal of 
becoming a leading provider of operational planning 
software and consultancy services to the transport 
markets.  As always, our thanks go out to customers, 
shareholders and staff who continue to support us. 
 
Rod Jones, Chairman 
 
John McArthur, Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
26 November 2010  
 
 
 
 
 
 