  
TRACSIS PLC   |   3 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report  
Introduction 
 
For the fourth successive year since IPO, the Group is 
pleased to report on a period of further sustained growth 
which has seen significant expansion of the business.  
Tracsis has developed several new product lines (TRACS-
RS, TRACS In-Cab and TRACS Studio), made several 
key hires into the team, and completed the successful 
acquisition of MPEC Technology Limited.  We believe the 
resulting Group now contains a good balance of 
consultancy, software and hardware offerings which have 
led to a further year of record sales and profitability and a 
growing footprint and reputation within our respective 
market. 
 
Looking ahead, the directors believe Tracsis now has the 
strength and depth of services, products and people to 
continue its growth in the face of the continuing recession 
and on-going economic pressures felt within the UK and 
abroad.  The directors also believe the business is well 
positioned within the passenger transport markets given 
its strong balance sheet; good cash flow from blue chip 
clients; and that it remains debt free.  The board remain 
excited about Tracsis's prospects as a growing public 
company and has confidence the Group will continue to 
grow in line with expectations and report further successes 
in the coming year.  
 
Business overview 
 
Tracsis is a provider, developer and aggregator of 
resource optimisation software, consultancy services and 
hardware for companies in the passenger transport 
industries.  Its primary market is within the UK rail and bus 
market although the past 12 months have seen increasing 
demand and enquiries from overseas operators based in 
Northern Europe, Australia and New Zealand which we 
believe will be key markets in years to come. 
 
Tracsis' market offering can be broadly categorised into 
four revenue streams;  
1. Resource optimisation software of people and 
vehicles (scheduling, rostering and performance 
management); 
2. Operational and performance planning consultancy 
and modelling/simulation; 
3. Passenger demand analysis and surveying; and 
4. Condition monitoring and data logging hardware for 
critical transport infrastructure. 
 
These products and services have a common theme in 
assisting transport operators run a more efficient and 
productive service.  This is achieved by the optimisation of 
resource allocation (people and vehicles) coupled with 
tools that provide for a significant enhancement to 
strategic decision making when planning future transport 
services.  Given the increasing importance of passenger 
transport markets within the UK and abroad, the directors 
believe that this will remain a key growth area for its 
products and services.  
Financial summary 
 
The Group achieved revenue of  4.08m for the year, up 
54.3% on our 2010 revenue of  2.65m and delivered an 
adjusted EBITDA* of  1.24m which was some 77% higher 
than the previous year (2010:  701,000).  We believe this 
is a tremendous result given the backdrop of continuing 
market uncertainty and recessionary pressures. 
 
Administrative costs excluding intangible asset 
amortisation and exceptional items increased from  1.97m 
to  2.41m, due to continued investment in the Group's 
overhead base and in anticipation of future growth and 
demand for the Company market offering. After taking into 
account intangible asset amortisation and exceptional 
acquisition costs, total administrative costs amounted to 
 2.51m (2010:  2.07m).   
 
* Earnings before finance income, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 
exceptional items and share-based payment charges 
 
As of 31 July 2011, the Group had cash balances of 
 4.69m (2010:  2.55m) and remains debt free.  The key 
changes in cash the Group's cash position against 2010 
were generally three fold - the purchase of new office 
premises in Derby, the acquisition of MPEC Technology 
Limited, and the successful share placing in June 2011.  
Throughout the past year the Group's operating cash 
generation has remained good with a very tight control of 
both costs and debtors. 
  
Trading Progress and Prospects 
 
Trading within the Group's core software offerings 
remained buoyant throughout the past year and the Group 
maintained all on-going software licences whilst 
successfully winning new long term business both in the 
UK and abroad.  Overall, the demand for software 
products remained higher than expected (as it did in 2010) 
and the Group continues to see significant pressure on 
transport operators to take action on improving efficiency 
whilst maintaining or improving service delivery to 
customers.  We believe these factors have combined in 
the Group's favour and look set to continue for at least the 
short to mid-term. 
 
The Group's consultancy services traded slightly ahead of 
expectation although the passenger transport markets 
continue to feel the pinch of the recession at large.  
Although the Group witnessed some projects stalling or 
being deferred, we believe there is evidence the rail 
industry is gearing up for a high level of re-franchising 
activity as announced by the Transport Minister, Phillip 
Hammond in August 2011.  We expect this activity to take 
place from December 2011 and it could continue for 
several years to come with some 6 rail franchises due for 
re-tendering in the coming 3 years.  This activity should 
bolster all aspects of the Tracsis offering and we anticipate 
further growth within the consultancy and service offerings 
in the coming year as a consequence, although there is no 
guarantee at this stage.     
4   |   Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report continued 
 
Re-location to Derby 
 
In May 2011 the Group purchased new offices in the 
centre of Derby and moved the entire Loughborough 
operation to this location.  We believe this was a 
strategically important step in the evolution of the group as 
the directors believe Derby is regarded as a  Rail Capital', 
given the high concentration of rail related businesses 
located there.  We also believe this move has assisted 
with the recruitment and retention of key personnel and 
has raised the profile of Tracsis with its target customers 
and potential acquisition targets.  
 
Share placing 
 
Earlier in the year the Company completed a successful 
fundraise of  1.95m as part of a share placing of 
4,333,333 shares at a price of 45p per share.   
 
The Company raised these funds to strengthen our 
balance sheet in light of the pending acquisition of MPEC 
Technology Limited and also to replenish cash reserves to 
enable Tracsis to react to new opportunities as these arise 
in the future.  The share placing also allowed for Tracsis to 
broaden the institutional shareholder base which was a 
key strategic goal of the Board as we continue to grow.   
 
The successful share placing is an endorsement of 
Tracsis within investor circles and the board is pleased to 
welcome several new institutions as shareholders.  
 
Acquisition of MPEC Technology Limited 
 
Towards the end of our financial year the Group 
announced the acquisition of MPEC Technology Limited 
(MPEC ).  MPEC are a specialist provider of intelligent 
data logging equipment that is used to monitor the 
condition of infrastructure assets on the railway such as 
level crossings, railway points and point heaters.  The 
technology allows for these assets to be monitored in real-
time so that maintenance regimes can be more predictive 
and preventative rather than the historic  fail and replace' 
regimes.  MPEC aims to improve efficiency through better 
planned maintenance programmes and improve on the 
overall performance of the rail network endeavouring to 
reduce the number of services being unnecessarily 
delayed due to broken or faulty equipment. 
 
The directors believe that there are good synergies with 
the hardware MPEC provide and the software currently 
being developed and marketed by Tracsis.  One instance 
of this is through combining the data gathered by MPEC's 
in-field monitors with Tracsis's performance reporting 
systems to enhance these products and improve the 
decision making capabilities for clients.  Along with these 
functional benefits, the directors are confident that cross 
selling opportunities could be created with UK Train 
Operating Companies who have expressed an interest in 
monitoring various aspects of rolling stock vehicles in real-
time.  
 
At present MPEC work exclusively within the UK rail 
sector where there is a defined and growing market for the 
technology but the directors believe there may be large 
untapped opportunities overseas.  As can be seen in the 
accounts, MPEC have traded extremely well since 
acquisition and we expect this trend to continue.  
 
Outlook 
 
Tracsis has performed very well in the past year and 
achieved record sales during a period of continued 
economic uncertainty.  The Group has grown its core 
team, made several new client wins, moved offices and 
completed its fourth acquisition whilst at the same time 
managing to deliver results ahead of expectations. 
 
Looking ahead, we believe the Group remains well placed 
to continue its goal of becoming a leading provider of 
operational planning software, hardware and consultancy 
services to the transport markets.  As always, our thanks 
go out to customers, shareholders and staff who continue 
to support us. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rod Jones, Chairman 
 
John McArthur, Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
7 November 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 