 Trafficmaster Plc
Annual Report and Accounts | for the year ended 31 December 2002
page 2 | Chairman's Statement
Trafficmaster has taken decisive action during the year 
to counter the difficult trading conditions in its core
markets. The anticipated general rise in demand for
traffic information products has failed to materialise and
Trafficmaster has taken steps to reposition the business
to take advantage of the existing and developing in-car
navigation market and to consolidate its position in the
traffic information business.
Trafficmaster has established a market-leading position
in the provision of live traffic information services and
enjoys relationships with numerous motor manufacturers,
cellular phone operators and other strategic partners.
Although this market has not developed at the pace that
had been widely predicted, we will remain active in this
market and we are well positioned to take advantage of
opportunities as they develop. 
A strategic priority in 2002 was the opening up of a
major new revenue stream through Trafficmaster's entry
into the more established navigation market. Our
intelligent navigation system, Smartnav, was launched 
in June and has been very well received by the industry,
the media and customers. Trackstar, our stolen vehicle
recovery product, enjoyed a record year of revenue
growth.
Financial Highlights
Revenues increased to  34.9 million (2001:  30.9 million).
Our US business, Teletrac, contributed full year revenues
of  16.8 million, up from  12.3 million in the period from
May to December 2001. 
Operating costs, before exceptional items, fell to  28.9
million from  38.7 million, reflecting the measures
undertaken by management to bring costs more into 
line with revenues. As anticipated, losses on ordinary
activities for the second half of the financial year were
lower than the first half, resulting in a group operating
loss before exceptional items of  9.1 million (2001:  19.6
million). As indicated in January exceptional items
of  53 million were recorded, principally in relation to
asset write-downs.
Capital expenditure for 2002 was  4.7 million down from
 17.7 million.
Net debt at the year end was  3.9 million (2001:  4.2
million) comprising bonds held by Teletrac Inc of 
 9.6 million (2001:  10.7 million) offset by cash
balances of  5.7 million (2001:  6.5 million).
Management believes that the cash balances are
sufficient for all current and planned requirements. 
The bonds held by the US subsidiary Teletrac Inc 
are due for repayment in October 2004.
Trafficmaster has taken steps to reposition the 
business to take advantage of the existing and
developing in-car navigation market - to consolidate 
its position in the traffic information business.
Sir James McKinnon
Trafficmaster has
established a market-
leading position in the
provision of live traffic
information services 
and enjoys relationships
with numerous motor
manufacturers, cellular
phone operators and 
other strategic partners. 
Chairman's Statement Chairman's Statement continued | page 3
Trafficmaster Plc
Annual Report and Accounts | for the year ended 31 December 2002
Smartnav
Smartnav, the company's unique intelligent navigation
system, was launched in the UK in June 2002. Since
launch, we have received a very positive response from
the industry, the media and customers. The product 
has developed brand recognition based upon its high
functionality and relatively low cost. I am delighted that
existing users share our enthusiasm. This is backed by
encouraging sales performance in the retail sector, where
our longer standing Trackstar dealerships have been
particularly active.
Smartnav is now available through a variety of outlets 
in the UK, including aftermarket dealerships, 
mainstream automotive dealers and specialist local
franchise organisations. We are constantly adding to 
this distribution base. Additionally, we are engaged 
in programmes with a number of OEM customers
developing distribution arrangements. 
With the successful launch of Smartnav, we intend to
consolidate our position in the rapidly growing in-car
navigation market. We believe that Trafficmaster is
ideally positioned to exploit the growth in this
developing market for the following reasons. 
Ease of use: Many existing in-car navigation products
are difficult to use whilst driving, they rely on a
cumbersome point and click user interface. Smartnav,
with its single button connecting the user to a call
centre, is simple and safe to use.
Unique traffic data: Smartnav incorporates high 
quality live traffic information into the route planning
calculation, providing an intelligent navigation system
capable of forewarning the driver of delays on his or 
her chosen routes. 
Marketing and distribution channels: Trafficmaster 
has established relationships with OEMs and has
considerable experience of marketing vehicle tracking 
and traffic information products direct to consumers 
and through retail channels.
Traffic Information
We provide numerous OEMs with live traffic information
and have maintained an active presence in the consumer
marketplace. We added MG Rover to our list of motor
manufacturer clients in the period and Trafficmaster
continues to supply BMW, Citro n, Fiat, and Alfa Romeo
with live traffic information products. 
We also have established relationships with many of the
major telecoms partners including Orange, O
2
and Virgin
and continue to develop our relationship with the RAC,
with whom we work closely in the collection and
collation of incident-based road and traffic information. 
The traffic information business in continental Europe
has not developed as previously expected and
Trafficmaster has decided to suspend all further
investment whilst considering its future plans
in those marketplaces. 
Smartnav was launched 
in June and has been 
very well received by the
industry, the media and
customers.  Trafficmaster Plc
Annual Report and Accounts | for the year ended 31 December 2002
page 4 | Chairman's Statement continued
Trackstar Limited
Trackstar, which is a leading provider of advanced
GPS/GSM stolen vehicle tracking systems, has continued
to grow rapidly with revenues increasing by over 200% 
to a total of  2.55 million. 
Trackstar II was launched successfully during 2002 and
is being fitted as standard by Renault and Subaru on
certain models. There is increasing interest from other
automotive manufacturers for this sophisticated product.
We expect Trackstar to continue to grow during 2003.
Unit sales to all sectors of the market are forecast to
grow strongly along with the recurring revenue stream
from a steadily increasing subscription base. We expect
this trend to continue as insurance companies
increasingly recognise the benefits of the product 
in protecting top-end models. 
Teletrac
Teletrac, our US fleet services business, has made
progress despite the poor performance of the US
economy. As noted in the interims, our product offering
and sales efficiency have improved the performance of
the business in the financial year. 
Revenues for the full year were  16.8 million (2001:
 12.3 million May-Dec). Tight control over costs resulted
in operating expenses falling by 10.4% in the second
half of the year to  4.8 million. This management action
has resulted in Teletrac approaching a breakeven level of
pre-tax profit on a month by month basis. Whilst this is
a strong improvement in trading performance, we 
believe that due to market conditions in the USA,
Teletrac performance will not improve significantly in 
the medium term.
Asset Write-down 
As announced in January, Trafficmaster has undertaken 
a review of the carrying value of certain assets held on
its balance sheet. Accordingly, the net asset value of 
the company at 31 December 2002 was reduced by 
 53 million. 
Many of our assets were acquired and developed to take
advantage of a traffic information market that has not
developed as expected. We have looked at our asset
portfolio with a view to assessing its value in line with
our revised view of the market and now have an asset
base that accords with our future earnings potential. The
main elements of the asset write-down are summarised
below.
Since acquiring Teletrac in May 2001, we have developed
this company to a stage where it is approaching
profitability on a consistent month by month basis.
However, in light of the medium term potential of this
business, we consider it prudent to write off goodwill 
of  13.2 million. A further  2.8 million was provided
against network and development costs. 
Germany has proved to be an extremely difficult region
in which to earn revenue from telematics products.
Owing to this slower than anticipated development of
the marketplace, we consider it prudent to write down the
assets of the German network by  16 million.
Trackstar II was launched
successfully during 2002
and is being fitted as
standard by Renault 
and Subaru on certain
models. 
Chairman's Statement continued Chairman's Statement continued | page 5
Trafficmaster Plc
Annual Report and Accounts | for the year ended 31 December 2002
We expect Trackstar to continue to grow during 2003. Unit sales 
to all sectors of the market are forecast to grow strongly, along 
with the recurring revenue stream from a steadily increasing
subscription base.
Even the UK traffic information marketplace has not
grown as rapidly as many expected. To reflect this, we
have provided a total of  12.7 million against the cost of
the network. This provision was primarily made against
the cost of the additional sensors placed on the trunk
road system in the past three years.
As a result of these actions, the Board believes that 
the carrying value of the remaining assets in the
Trafficmaster group balance sheet is now in line with
expected future earnings potential. The cost of the
write downs is substantial; however, the result is a
slimmed down group, focused on our core strengths.
Prospects
Management has taken firm and decisive action to
restructure Trafficmaster and to focus attention on 
areas of the market that provide the most growth
opportunities. Costs and working capital remain firmly
under control and we are confident that we have now
positioned the business to take advantage of the
developing in-car navigation market, whilst remaining
active in our traditional sector.
We are encouraged by the outlook for Smartnav, which
we believe has enormous potential both as an after-
market and original equipment product. In addition,
Trackstar continues to grow strongly. We look forward to
playing a major role in those sectors of the Telematics
marketplace which complement our strengths and are
exhibiting growth potential.
Sir James McKinnon
Chairman
24 April 2003