 04 Treatt PLC   Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 
Results
The Group has enjoyed a good year in 2010 with strong growth in both sales 
and profits, with operating profit up by 26% to  4.9m. Group revenue continued 
to grow for the twelfth year in succession with an increase for the year of 
12.4% to  63.3m (2009:  56.3m). Over the last three years Group revenue 
has risen by 66%. Group adjusted* earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation increased by 20% to  6.0m (2009:  5.0m) with adjusted* 
profit before tax for the year being up by 29% to a new all-time high of  4.5m  
(2009:  3.5m). Basic adjusted* earnings per share has increased by 24% to 
30.3 pence (2009: 24.5 pence) per share.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.9 pence (2009: 8.3 pence), 
increasing the total dividend for the year by 8.3% to 13.0 pence (2009: 12.0 
pence) per share. The final dividend will be payable on 4 March 2011 to all 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 28 January 2011.
Towards the end of the 2009 financial year there was a weakening of demand 
and this trend continued into the first quarter of the 2010 financial year. However, 
in January 2010 demand began to recover and sales of the Group's products 
rose sharply across the broad range of new and existing customers, reaching 
record levels in terms of both volumes and value in the third quarter. The final 
quarter of the year was significantly stronger than the corresponding period last 
year. The value of sales of orange oil products, which represent 17% of Group 
revenue (2009: 17%), increased by 12% during the year although volumes 
were unchanged. Contribution from orange oil co-products increased even 
more sharply as prices rose steadily throughout the period. By the end of the 
financial year orange oil prices had begun to reach all-time highs although this 
did not impact on the results for the year ended 30 September 2010. Over the 
course of the year, the US Dollar to Pound Sterling exchange rate had a broadly 
neutral effect on the business as it ended the year little different to where it had 
opened twelve months earlier, although there were some periods of significant 
fluctuation in between.
Following strong positive cash inflow of almost  7m in 2009, the Group's 
inventory holdings increased in 2010 as expected, both in terms of volumes, 
as inventory levels were replenished, and values, as prices rose, resulting in an 
overall cash outflow (movement in net debt) for the year of  2m. As confirmed in 
the Half Year Results Announcement, the Group's bank facilities were renewed 
without difficulty, with  6 million of US Dollar denominated debt being converted 
from a one year to a three year committed facility. 
 
Group operating profit after foreign exchange translation differences increased 
by 26% to  4.9m (2009:  3.9m). The Group's main UK operating business, 
R.C. Treatt, had another strong performance and the year also saw a 
significantly improved performance by Treatt USA. The Group's organic and 
fair trade business, Earthoil, continued to make progress although this was 
hampered by its loss-making South African subsidiary, which was disposed of 
during the year. 
The Board has reviewed the  4.3m carrying value of goodwill relating to the 
Group's organic and fair trade cosmetic ingredient business, Earthoil (as required 
by International Financial Reporting Standards). The Group acquired 50% of 
Earthoil in 2007 and obtained full ownership in 2008. The Board is confident 
of the potential of Earthoil, however it is now apparent that the development 
of Earthoil has taken longer than originally anticipated. Accordingly, a goodwill 
impairment charge of  2.4m has been made in the year, reducing profit before 
tax from  4.5m to  2.1m. The impairment charge is a non-cash item. Further 
details are provided in the Operating & Financial Review on page 6.
R.C. Treatt has performed consistently strongly over the last few years and 
2010 was no exception with total revenues increasing by 12% to  43.6m 
(2009:  38.9m). Although the financial year began slowly, in part due to the 
timing of major customer deliveries, as prices began to firm the levels of activity 
both in terms of value and the number of transactions increased rapidly and 
reached record levels in the third quarter. With its widely spread global customer 
base, the Company continued to enjoy strong sales growth particularly in the 
Far East (where sales increased by 25%) and in aroma chemicals (where sales 
grew by 16%). 
Treatt USA had a very good year seeing a significant recovery in demand from 
existing customers as well as winning an encouraging level of new business. 
Year on year US Dollar sales grew by 16%, with an improved product mix also 
providing a boost to margins. Having reduced inventory levels by  3m in 2009, 
levels in 2010 grew by less than  1m, notwithstanding the 16% increase in 
sales. The growth in specialty sales continued with another year of double digit 
growth, increasing in US Dollars by 15% (2009: 14%) across a wide range of 
products.
Earthoil results showed some progress in 2010, with sales growth of 
9%. Underlying Earthoil's performance, there have been definite signs of 
improvement in regular order intake and deliveries, coupled with strong growth 
in sales to its major customers. However, Earthoil's South African subsidiary 
continued to underperform and was therefore the subject of a management 
buy-out during the year. The Company continues to win new business, enabling 
the Group to make inroads into the cosmetics sector, which remains a long 
term strategic goal. 
Prospects
To fully set out the prospects for the current year is not easy. The most significant 
raw material purchased by the Group is orange oil, which is then processed by 
the Group with the resultant products being sold at prices which reflect raw 
material costs. Over the last 30 years the price of orange oil has fallen to as low 
as US$0.40/kg (in 1983) and peaked at US$5/kg (in 1995).
In recent times, with higher petroleum prices underpinning the price, orange oil 
has been relatively stable at around $2/kg. In 2009, there was an oversupply of 
orange oil and the price fell for a short period to under $1/kg. During 2010, as a 
result of unprecedented climatic conditions, including a drought in Brazil and a 
freeze in Florida, coupled with high demand for orange oil co-products, orange 
oil prices have reached historic highs of well over $6/kg. This volatility can lead 
to significant stock profits but also to high levels of risk in terms of managing the 
Group's supply pipeline when prices fall back.
The new financial year has started very well with both sales and margins 
significantly up on the same period last year for all three group businesses, R.C. 
Treatt, Treatt USA and Earthoil. Indeed Treatt USA achieved a record level of 
profit in October. The next twelve months could be somewhat tumultuous for the 
Group as raw material and product prices reach their peak with a significant risk 
that prices, in particular orange oil, could then fall sharply resulting in potentially 
large stock losses. The Group has many years experience of dealing with such 
situations and steps are in place to mitigate these losses where possible. 
The Group also expects to continue to see significant sales growth in the  
Far East and many other parts of the world where it sees opportunities to 
increase market share. Following strong sales growth in 2010, as businesses 
were re-stocking following a period of heavy de-stocking in 2009, demand 
for other products is expected to subside and we have seen some signs of a 
decline in orders.
Summary
In summary, the Group has performed well over its entire product range over 
the last three years through difficult times, as the world continues to eat, drink 
and buy cosmetics, regardless of economic conditions. Flavour, fragrance and 
cosmetics companies look to Treatt to provide quality products in an efficient 
manner. As a truly independent and global business, Treatt remains well placed 
to take advantage of competitive opportunities, and through its commitment to 
continuous improvement, Treatt has become a supplier of choice. 
People
Importantly, the Board would again like to place on record its thanks to all 
Group employees for their tremendous dedication and effort which has resulted 
in another good year of excellent progress. This could not have been achieved 
without a stable and committed workforce.
As reported last year, Ned Dawnay and David Appleby retired from the Board 
during the year and we were very pleased to welcome Ian Neil to the Board with 
extensive flavour and fragrance experience, having worked within the industry 
for over 25 years.
James Grace
Chairman
3 December 2010  * Excluding goodwill impairment
Chairman's Statement
A strong year with operating profit  
increasing by 26% to  4.9m