 Chairman's statement
This year has continued to be a period of significant 
change for Tribal, and one in which we have achieved a 
major repositioning of the group.
Our evolution
The year ended 31 December 2011 was a period of 
significant change for Tribal, and one in which we have 
achieved a major repositioning of the group.
Initial development as a support services business
Tribal evolved over the past decade as a diverse support 
services business, growing successfully during a period 
of economic prosperity.  Initially developed through an 
acquisition-led strategy, the group evolved to encompass 
operations in a number of markets, and under a range of 
business models.
Addressing challenges
As the economic climate has become more challenging, 
some of the businesses within the group faced difficult 
trading conditions.  During 2010 and 2011, we directly 
confronted these challenges.  Our short-term strategy 
sought to:
 exit those activities which created unacceptable risk to 
 the future financial stability of the group; 
 simplify our organisational structure;
 significantly reduce our cost base; and
 focus our future on areas of strength within the group.  
Delivering our short-term objectives
We have made good progress in delivering our short-term 
objectives.
Exiting non-core markets
We completed the disposal programme, which was 
initiated in 2010.  The disposal of our Support Services 
division, made up of the Nightingale Associates 
architecture business, the Kindred communications 
business and the Tribal Resourcing business, was 
concluded in March 2011.  In April 2011 we completed the 
sale of our Health and Government businesses to Capita 
Group PLC.
Simplifying our organisation
The conclusion of the disposal programme allowed us to 
focus on development of the former Education division.  
We have simplified our organisational structure, creating 
greater flexibility and enhancing accountability throughout 
the business.  
We are now organised into two distinct, but clearly related, 
divisions:
 Technology - providing a range of proprietary software 
 products to support the business needs of education, 
 learning and training providers; and
 Services - delivering a range of services to support the 
 improvement of education, learning and training 
 delivery by our customers.
04 Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
2010 2011
Tribal comprises  
4 divisions
Disposal of 
Nightingale 
Associates
Acquisition of 
Class  
Measures 
(US)
Disposal of 
Kindred
Disposal of 
Resourcing
Disposal of 
Health and 
Government
January Ongoing June July October March April
Education, Learning 
and Training market  
focused business
  
Education
  
Health
  
Government
  
Support Services
  
Technology
 
Services A leading provider of technology products and services  
to the education, learning and training markets
 In eighteen months, Tribal has 
transformed itself from a diverse 
support services business into a 
technology and services business, 
focused on the education, learning 
and training markets. The building 
blocks are now in place to support our 
growth strategy.  
 John Ormerod Chairman, Tribal
Developing a three year strategy
Our strategy now aims, over the medium term, to build on 
the market-leading technology assets and strong service-
related intellectual property within our business.
Cost reduction programme
Following the completion of our disposal programme, we 
undertook a further cost reduction programme, lowering 
our cost base by approximately  5.3m on an annualised 
basis.  In so doing, we have removed unnecessary layers 
of management and exited surplus properties, whilst 
retaining our focus on delivering quality products and 
services.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  05
Technology Services
Proprietary software products to 
support the business needs of education, 
learning and training providers
High value software products with high 
competitive barriers to entry, together with one-off 
bespoke solutions
Services to support the 
improvement of education
Long term service contracts based on strong 
domain knowledge together with scalable 
technology components Chairman's statement continued
06 Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
Establishing the foundations for growth
We have put in place building blocks that are fundamental 
to a well-balanced growth strategy, reducing risk and 
providing investment capacity.
Management team
We were pleased to appoint Keith Evans, formerly Chief 
Operating Officer, to become our Chief Executive in 
November 2011.  Keith has successfully led the business 
through a period of transformation, and continues to be 
supported by Steve Breach, our Group Finance Director 
who joined us in 2010.
Our divisional leadership has been refreshed.  Clive Ansell 
(Managing Director - Technology) and Janet Tomlinson 
(Managing Director - Services) have considerable 
experience leading software and educational delivery in the 
UK and internationally.
We have a committed and energised leadership team, with 
the right skills and capability for the task at hand.
People and culture
Our business depends on the expertise of our staff.  We 
are fortunate to work with a talented group of people, who 
have shown great resilience during a period of change.  
Tribal embraces a positive culture in which our people 
continue to grow, develop and innovate.  
Efficient cost base
Streamlining an organisation is a painful process, but 
has been essential to create an efficient and flexible cost 
base to support our growth plans.  Our cost base is now 
appropriate to our business' needs.
Dividends
The board has reviewed our dividend policy and believes 
it is appropriate, given the strength and prospects of the 
business, to continue to pay dividends.  The Board has 
proposed a final dividend of 0.60p which taken with the 
earlier interim dividend of 0.40p means a total dividend 
per share of 1.00p.  This dividend is well covered, and it 
is the company's intention to maintain this level of cover 
going forward, and progressively to grow the dividend in 
line with the growth in the company's underlying earnings.  
The board will continue regularly to review this policy, but 
at the current time believes re-investing surplus funds back 
into the business together with maintaining this policy is 
appropriate.
Financial stability
Whilst our reported net debt at 31 December 2010 was 
 18.5m, underlying net debt was somewhat higher for 
reasons set out in the Financial Review.  During 2011, we 
have reduced our net borrowings to  16.0m, and have a 
long-standing and supportive relationship with our lending 
banks, HSBC and Lloyds Banking Group.  As we enter 
2012, our balance sheet is more resilient, and we have 
suitable financing facilities in place for the medium term to 
support our development strategy.
Looking to the future
We look to the future with renewed confidence.
Competitive advantages
We remain cautious of the impact of uncertainties in the 
world economy.  Nevertheless, given our competitive 
advantages and the market opportunities available to us, 
we believe that Tribal is well positioned to grow its existing 
strong customer base in the UK, and to take advantage of 
a significant range of international opportunities.
Our vision
Our vision is to build a business that creates, builds and 
delivers world-class technology-based software products 
and services that help our education, learning and training 
customers deliver excellence.
Our recent success in Australia and New Zealand 
demonstrates the world-class credentials of our 
technology products.  The New South Wales Department 
of Education and Communities, one of the largest English-
speaking education systems in the world, has provisionally 
chosen our systems to deliver its Student Administration 
and Learning Management programme, which subject to 
conclusion of negotiations will roll out our systems across 
New South Wales.
Likewise, our work in Nashville, Tennessee, helping the 
local school district to improve under-performing schools, 
demonstrates the international credentials of our service 
capabilities.
Our mission
Tribal is emerging from a period of transformation.  Our 
mission is now to continue to provide market-leading 
products to our customers, to retain and recruit high 
calibre staff to support our growth, and to restore and grow 
shareholder value, in which respect we are targeting to 
more than double earnings per share within a three year 
period.   
John Ormerod, Chairman
22 March 2012 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  07
University of Sydney - Sydney 
Student Project
The University of Sydney was founded in 1850 and has 
over 3,000 academic staff and over 49,000 students. In 
a project running until October 2013, Tribal is working 
with the university to implement a pioneering new 
student management system based on our world leading 
SITS:Vision solution. 
The new student system utilises self-service web access 
to simplify the way students pay fees, access timetables 
and check exam results, as well as enabling staff to 
reduce the amount of paperwork required. 
In addition to the core solution, additional modules 
are being implemented including our Accessibility 
Management software that helps institutions to improve 
service levels to students and cater for the more 
effective management of student welfare. As well as the 
core implementation project, Tribal is working with the 
University on a change management and organisational 
transformation project as well as reviewing its information 
quality.