  
 
 Page 5 
 AVIA HEALTH INFORMATICS PLC  
 (REGISTERED NUMBER: 6470277)  
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 
 
 
Introduction 
 
The results for Avia Health Informatics plc (Avia  or the Company ) for the year ended 31st March 2012 
are presented here. The consolidated results for the year show turnover of  2.3 million (year ended 31 
March 2011:  2.1 million), which resulted in an operating loss of  0.7 million (2011: operating loss  0.5 
million). The gross profit margin in the year was 30 per cent (2011: 41 per cent).  The loss per share for the 
year was 10.40 pence (2011: loss of 12.25 pence per year).  The Company's cash balance as at 31 March 
2012 was  0.1 million (2011:  0.4 million). 
 
 
Suspension 
 
2011/12 was a very challenging year with sales activity below expectation and insufficient control over 
expenditure.  Following a positive start to the year, sales activity unexpectedly deteriorated in the latter part 
of Q1 and Q2. Sales of Odyssey TeleAssess and Odyssey FirstAssess that had been anticipated in the UK 
failed to materialise owing to changes in NHS policy and funding and deployment issues in the prison sector. 
In addition, it became increasingly clear that the Company's growth strategy lacked sufficient market 
analysis and focus.  In August 2011, trading in the Company's shares was suspended following the revenue 
shortfall impacting on the Company's financial position.   
 
Staff across the Company demonstrated considerable commitment to the Company's future and agreed to a 
salary deferment totalling  200,000.  The Executive Chairman took over direct responsibility for managing 
UK and international sales activity from June 2011, as well as operational activity for Plain Healthcare from 
September 2011.  The Company shares were readmitted to AIM on the 1
st
 February 2012. 
 
Company Strategy 
 
Avia's strategy in 2011/12 was aimed at growing its business through selling Odyssey clinical decision 
support hosted, web and mobile applications and the PathFinderRF hosted solution, working with UK and 
international partners and resellers to increase their market penetration. Sales growth continues to be 
targeted through a direct sales force and the engagement of resellers and added value partners. 
 
In June 2011 Avia's wholly owned subsidiary Plain Healthcare Ltd (Plain ) signed a contract with Nene 
Commissioning Group (Nene ) in Northamptonshire to acquire the intellectual property rights (IPR ) to sell 
and manage future development of their PathFinder software.  PathFinderRF enables NHS Commissioning 
Groups and other Primary Care Organisations to more effectively manage referral decision making and 
documentation from GP surgeries to specialist and community services.  Consideration for the acquired IPR 
will be paid solely in the form of sales royalties on the licences to use the PathFinderRF software, on a 
decreasing sliding scale over a five-year period.  Avia will fund the continued development cost of the 
software. 
 
UK 
 
A range of new software was launched during the year.  This included Odyssey CareAssess, designed as a 
hosted or locally deployed service to meet the needs of nursing and residential care homes. It enables both 
clinical and non-clinically trained staff to offer care home residents high levels of care and support in the 
event of illness or injury.  A successful pilot with care homes in Coventry demonstrated a substantially 
reduced level of referrals of residents to GPs and emergency departments.   
 
PathFinderRF was also launched.  It is aimed at Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) to support improved 
quality and cost savings through more effective GP referrals. Five CCGs purchased PathFinderRF during Q4. 
   
 
 Page 6 
In addition, we continued to sell Odyssey TeleAssess, Odyssey FacetoFace and Odyssey Reception to out of 
hours services and walk-in centres, Odyssey FaceToFace to Emergency Departments and Urgent Care 
Centres, and Odyssey FirstAssess to prisons.   
 
International 
 
Our strategy for international growth has been to identify and work with distribution partners, technical 
partners who provide interoperability with other health IT systems and strategic partners that can provide 
access to global markets.  
 
  Odyssey TeleAssess supplied and implemented with a new health insurance group client in Switzerland  
  Non-exclusive partnership agreement with K3 Healthcare / the Institute of Remote Healthcare to 
promote the Odyssey software range to providers of remote healthcare 
  New sales agent in Illinois, USA, to sell Odyssey CareAssess software to nursing homes and assisted 
living facilities in the United States 
  New Canadian reseller, The Stevens Company Limited, to sell the Odyssey range in Canada 
 
Software Development 
 
The Company has completed the development and launch of hosted services, which allows global delivery of 
its clinical content. The use of Service Orientated Architecture allows expansion of revenues both from 
Odyssey and third party applications in all target sectors. The Company has refined the delivery of the 
Odyssey user-interface for use with iPad touchscreen technology to enhance the mobility of the application.  
 
The Odyssey clinical knowledge and business logic is now available as a hosted service, enabling customers 
and users with connectivity through the internet to utilise Odyssey clinical content with a significant 
reduction in the cost of deployment. Delivering the clinical knowledge via the Cloud supported by Odyssey 
web services will enable our strategic partners, resellers and end users to access the clinical knowledge and 
business logic from any internet-connected location in the world. 
 
Board Changes 
 
Nigel Leavy FCA relinquished his role as part time Finance Director on 26th July 2011, becoming a Non-
Executive Director.  He subsequently retired from the Board on 31
st
 January 2012.  The Board wishes to 
thank Nigel for his services since the inception of the Company. 
 
On 17 August 2012, it was announced Barry Giddings, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive, had stepped 
down from the Avia board with immediate effect. It was also announced that I had agreed to become Non-
Executive Chairman and Jeremy Dale, Clinical Director, had agreed to become Interim Chief Executive with 
both appointments taking immediate effect. Further, it was announced that the Company had commenced 
the search for a full-time Chief Executive and an additional Non-Executive Director. I am pleased to 
announce the appointment of Tim Morris, Managing Director of Plain Healthcare, to the Avia Board as 
Operations Director and that the Board has decided that Jeremy Dale will remain as Chief Executive.  
 
Management  
 
The management of the Company was restructured during 2011/12 with the creation of an Avia 
Management Team, but this was replaced with a flatter and more focused management structure in August 
2012: 
 
Directors 
  Non-Executive Chairman    Roger Lane-Smith 
  Chief Executive / Clinical Director   Professor Jeremy Dale (also Chairman and Clinical 
Director of Plain Healthcare) 
  Operations Director    Tim Morris (also MD of Plain Healthcare) 
  Non-executive director   To be appointed 
 
Senior Management 
  Financial Controller / Company Secretary: Paul Preece (also Financial Director of Plain 
Healthcare) 
   
 
 Page 7 
 
In addition, following investment in the company by Advanced Computer Software plc in September 2012 
(see below) ACS has the right to appoint a non-executive director to the Board at a time of their choosing. 
 
Funding 
 
Net cash at 31 March was  0.1 million and the current cash resources of the business remain constrained 
and as a result the business remains subject to adverse trading swings. As a result of the Company's cash 
position in August 2012, together the Company's failed attempt to raise equity and/or debt funding in the 
short term, it was announced on 4
th
 September 2012 that ACS had made an interest free loan to the 
company of  350K, for a term of three years and convertible into 29.9% of the issued share  capital 
immediately following such conversion.  At the time of announcement I said that We are delighted to enter 
into the loan agreement with ACS, a fast growing, well respected and substantial business in the sector. The 
injection of capital into Avia will allow the Company to trade through the short term working capital 
constraints we have been experiencing and, following conversion of the loan, we will have as our largest 
shareholder ACS, a business with significant management expertise and financial stability - news which 
should be welcomed positively by shareholders and existing and potential customers alike. 
 
Current Trading and Outlook 
 
There are considerable opportunities for PathFinderRF and Odyssey sales as Clinical Commissioning Groups 
become fully established in England, but the NHS is in a transition period in which IT purchasing decisions 
are being delayed.  This has restrained our UK business in 2012 during Q1 and Q2.  However, we anticipate 
much stronger growth in Q3 and Q4  of the current financial year as CCGs gain their NHS authorisation.  
 
The major investment that the Company has continued to make, both in clinical and software development, 
is targeted at innovative cost-effective hosted, web and mobile delivered software solutions and applications 
in order to capitalise on new opportunities as they present themselves in the future. 
 
 
Staff 
 
I would like to thank all my colleagues and staff for their exceptional efforts and support during 2011 and 
2012. 
 
 
 
 
Roger Lane-Smith  
Chairman 
 
17 October 2012 
  