  
 
 Page 4 
AVIA HEALTH INFORMATICS PLC 
(REGISTERED NUMBER: 06470277) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 
 
Introduction 
The results for Avia health informatics plc (Avia  or the Company ) for the year ended 31st March 2013 
are presented here. The consolidated results for the year show turnover of  1.8 million (year ended 31 
March 2012:  2.3 million), which resulted in an operating loss of  0.6 million (2012: operating loss  0.7 
million). The gross profit margin in the year was 40 per cent (2012: 30 per cent).  The loss per share for the 
year was 9.85 pence (2012: loss of 10.4 pence per share).  The Company's cash balance as at 31 March 
2013 was  0.1 million (2012:  0.1 million). 
 
 
Overview 
2012/13 was a very challenging year with sales activity failing to meet expectations, substantial change and 
re-structuring in our principal market (the National Health Service) leading to delays in purchasing decision-
making and loss of opportunities, and insufficient control over expenditure in Q1 and Q2.  
 
As a result of the Company's cash position in August 2012, together the Company's failed attempt to raise 
equity and/or debt funding in the short term, it was announced on 4
th
 September 2012 that Advanced 
Computer Software (ACS ) plc had made an interest free loan to the company of  350K, for a term of three 
years and convertible into 29.9% of the issued share capital immediately following such conversion.  At the 
time of announcement I said that We are delighted to enter into the loan agreement with ACS, a fast 
growing, well respected and substantial business in the sector. The injection of capital into Avia will allow 
the Company to trade through the short term working capital constraints we have been experiencing and, 
following conversion of the loan, we will have as our largest shareholder ACS, a business with significant 
management expertise and financial stability - news which should be welcomed positively by shareholders 
and existing and potential customers alike.  This was an important development in terms of mitigating 
financial risks and uncertainties, and the Board anticipated benefit from the partnership with ACS.  At the 
2012 Annual General Meeting, shareholders voted in favour of issuing shares to ACS plc to allow the 
conversion of the loan. 
 
A programme of cost cutting measures was implemented which continued throughout the remainder of 2012 
and into 2013, resulting in a considerable downsizing in the Company's headcount together with payroll 
costs and expenses being reduced by approximately 50%. The Board, through Plain Healthcare's 
management team, re-organised all of the Company's development and operational activity into Plain 
Healthcare to maximise the focus on immediate to medium-term sales. The Board completed a detailed 
review of the Company's processes, procedures and sales strategy.   
 
Despite these attempts to improve efficiency, the Company continued to face difficulties with inadequate 
working capital.  Sales revenue remained disappointing in large part owing to the difficult conditions in its 
NHS market.  Notably, the impact of the introduction of NHS111, the new NHS national help line for non-life 
threatening situations, led to a large loss of contract renewals from customers who in turn were no longer 
being commissioned to provide out of hours General Practitioner services.  In addition, the extent of 
upheaval caused by the re-structuring from Primary Care Trusts to Clinical Commissioning Groups in the NHS 
resulted in very prolonged delays in purchasing decision-making, an issue that continues to affect the 
closure of sales.   
 
On 1 March 2013, Avia announced that performance in January 2013 was ahead of expectations and that 
the Company had traded profitably. Unfortunately this was not maintained and sales in February 2013 were 
behind the Directors' expectations due to ordering delays within the NHS, the Company's principal customer. 
It was announced that the Company's cash flow continued to be tight and that the Company was in 
discussions with its principal creditor in relation to the deferral of amounts owed.  
 
As a result of these discussions, HMRC agreed a stringent payment plan whereby the Group had to cover all 
remaining outstanding payments in addition to maintaining payments for PAYE and VAT as they fell due. The  
   
 
 Page 5 
AVIA HEALTH INFORMATICS PLC 
(REGISTERED NUMBER: 06470277) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT (Continued) 
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 
 
Overview (continued) 
Company's sales forecasts indicated that this should be affordable provided sales performance met 
expectation and did not slip.     
 
 
Highlights 
The company is proud to have been accredited by the National Institute of Care Excellence (NICE) for the 
processes and systems we use to develop and maintain the Odyssey clinical content.  This is a major 
internationally-recognised measure of acclaim which should strengthen our position in the market place. 
 
Last year, we announced a range of new software that was launched during the year.  This included 
Odyssey CareAssess, designed as a hosted or locally deployed service to meet the needs of nursing and 
residential care homes. It enables both clinical and non-clinically trained staff to offer care home residents 
high levels of care and support in the event of illness or injury.  Following a successful pilot with care homes 
in Coventry demonstrating a substantially reduced level of referrals of residents to GPs and emergency 
departments, one of the sites was awarded the Laing & Buisson Award for Early Intervention and Prevention 
2013 prize for its use of Odyssey CareAssess.  We are using this recognition to drive future sales in the care 
home sector.  
 
 
Board Changes 
On 17 August 2012, it was announced Barry Giddings, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive, had 
relinquished his role with immediate effect. It was also announced that I had agreed to become Non-
Executive Chairman and Jeremy Dale, Clinical Director, had agreed to become Interim Chief Executive with 
both appointments taking immediate effect. Tim Morris, Managing Director of Plain Healthcare was 
appointed to the Avia Board as Operations Director, and the Board decided in October that Jeremy Dale will 
remain as Chief Executive. Paul Preece remains as Financial Controller / Company Secretary (also Financial 
Director of Plain Healthcare). In addition, following investment in the company by Advanced Computer 
Software plc in September 2012, ACS has the right to appoint a non-executive director to the Board at a 
time of their choosing. 
 
 
Funding 
Net cash at 31 March 2013 was  0.1 million and the current cash resources of the business remain 
constrained and as a result the business remains subject to adverse trading swings.  
 
 
Current Trading and Outlook 
On the 24 June 2013, Avia announced that the Company had experienced further ordering delays in the NHS 
which resulted in a deferral of expected revenues. In addition the Company had experienced a delay in 
entering into an agreement to licence the Company's technology to a third party. This licence agreement 
was expected to be entered into by the end of June 2013, and to the Board believed it would provide 
immediate substantial working capital for the Company. A failure to complete this agreement in time, meant 
that the Company faced being unable to meet its current obligations. Hence, the Company therefore 
requested the suspension of its ordinary shares from trading on AIM, pending clarification of its financial 
position. 
 
On the 25 June 2013, the Company announced that it had now been informed by the third party that 
negotiations in relation to the licensing of technology had been terminated. As a result, Avia announced that 
the Directors were continuing to evaluate all available options regarding an injection of sufficient capital into  
   
 
 Page 6 
AVIA HEALTH INFORMATICS PLC 
(REGISTERED NUMBER: 06470277) 
 
 CHAIRMAN'S REPORT (Continued) 
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 
 
 
Current Trading and Outlook (continued) 
the business, whether through equity, debt or a convertible instrument, in order to enable Avia to overcome 
the working capital shortfall and allow the Company to continue to trade. The announcement also 
recognised that should the required capital not be found, it was likely that the Company, or its principal 
creditors, would seek the appointment of an administrator.  
 
All identified options were explored during the latter part of June and early July, and on 16 July 2013 the 
Company announced that in the absence of any other viable funding alternatives, the Company had entered 
into a heads of agreement with a third party for that third party to make a capital injection into the 
Company (the Heads of Agreement). Entry into the Heads of Agreement gave the third party a limited 
period of exclusivity to, inter alia; complete its due diligence on the Company. The Directors considered that 
the arrangements envisaged by the Heads of Agreement represented the most likely way for Shareholders to 
retain some value and potential for capital appreciation. 
 
On the 16
th
 October 2013 proposals put to creditors of the Company concerning a proposed CVA, were 
approved unanimously; in addition, resolutions approving the proposed disposal of Plain Healthcare Limited, 
the CVA and the Placing were passed at a General Meeting held the same day. 
 
Following the General Meeting the Company will adopt a new investing policy and will seek to acquire and 
build businesses making use of emerging technologies and advanced materials. These are typically 
businesses at an early revenue stage where the technology has been proven but not scaled up to meet 
emerging market demand. The Company focus will be on applications of graphene, nanotechnology and 
industrial biotechnology, with markets ranging from chemicals, aerospace and microelectronics to smart and 
sustainable buildings. The current board of directors have stated their intention to resign from Avia pending 
the Company's shares being readmitted for trading to the AIM Market and immediately following the 
appointment of the new board of Timothy Baldwin, Timothy Harper and Rod Venables. 
 
With the introduction of new management a new investment policy and secured funding it is the current 
board's belief that Avia is well-placed to return value and potential capital appreciation to its current and 
future shareholders. 
 
Staff 
The Company has outstandingly motivated, loyal and committed staff, many of whom are shareholders and 
have been employed for several years.  I would like to thank all my colleagues and staff for their exceptional 
efforts and support throughout the difficulties of the last challenging year. 
 
 
 
 
Roger Lane-Smith  
Chairman 
 
22 October 2013 
  