 Chairman's Statement
Triple Plate Junction PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
Dear Shareholder,
These accounts cover the first full year since your Company became a gold exploration company. During this time TPJ has expanded its
horizons from a one country, single project focus to a two country, multi project exploration company.
VIETNAM
We are extremely pleased that, as a result of the efforts of our team in Vietnam, the Company was issued two exploration licences over the
core 154 sq. km. at the highly prospective Pu Sam Cap (PSC) prospect area in Lai Chau, Vietnam. These were the first gold exploration
licences issued by the Vietnamese government since June 2001.
Granting of these licences has allowed our exploration programme to commence and we have already sent in an advance team of geologists
to establish operations and tackle the logistical challenges of working in this area. Our joint venture partners, Newmont Vietnam Pty Ltd are
actively supporting our exploration efforts at PSC. Mapping of this extensive mineralised area has commenced with a view to identification
of specific targets.
The PSC prospect area is dominated by a T ertiary alkaline volcanic-intrusive complex from which local artisan miners have been extracting gold
over a wide area from quartz-carbonate veins and brecciated wall-rocks. In the Company's AIM Admission document dated 22 December
2003, historic exploration results were published in support of the corporate strategy. This sampling is detailed in the following table:
GOLD G/T SILVER G/T
NO. OF (ARITHMETIC (ARITHMETIC 
YEAR SAMPLED BY SAMPLES AVERAGE)* AVERAGE)*
1992 Normandy 300 sq km regional geochemical 
BLEG gold anomaly
1993 Normandy 22 8.6 27
1996 VRC 103 5.3 13
1998 VRC 45 9.6 18
2003 ACA Howe 14 4.5 12
* These results are not statistically relevant and may not be representative of overall mineralization.
No systematic modern exploration work or drilling has ever been carried out at PSC. However, the Geological Survey of Vietnam has long
regarded the area as having high potential, and introduced a joint-venture company comprising Normandy Mining Limited and Anglo
American Corporation (Normandy Anglo Asian Pty Ltd) to the area in 1992. Initial reconnaissance work by that joint venture defined a very
strong, cohesive gold geochemical anomaly over an area of more than 300 sq. km centred on the PSC rocks, and applications to explore the
area were lodged in 1993.
Subsequent short expeditions to the area have confirmed the widespread distribution of gold (see table above). Normandy Anglo Asian Pty
Ltd and its successor Newmont Vietnam Pty Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation) maintained the applications
until 2003 when the applications were re-submitted by Triple Plate Junction Limited, a company owned jointly by Newmont Vietnam Pty Ltd
(49%) and Triple Plate Junction PLC (51%). 
The granting of the PSC Exploration Licenses is an important element of the Company's strategy of targeting major unexplored or under-
explored mineralized systems in frontier geological terrains.
The Company has not yet progressed the granting of the remaining three licenses at Xi Pa, A Bung and Lang Vai currently under application
by our joint venture partner Tiberon Minerals Limited (see TSX Venture: TBR) as management felt it vital to initially focus on the granting of
the core license areas at PSC.
TRIPLE PLATE
JUNCTION PLC  Triple Plate Junction PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 6
TRIPLE PLATE
JUNCTION PLC 
Geologist examining map data - Crater Mountain, Papua New Guinea.
Logging of core at Crater Mountain, Papua New Guinea. TRIPLE PLATE
JUNCTION PLC 
Triple Plate Junction PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7
Chairman's Statement continued
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
The Company has made excellent progress in PNG during the last year. Since the initial decision to target exploration opportunities in the
region in March 2004 the Company has built an impressive portfolio of exploration acreage held in joint ventures or proprietary licenses.
PNG projects
The acreage under license in PNG again complements the Company's strategy of targeting major unexplored or under-explored mineralized
systems in frontier geological terrains.
The Company's portfolio in PNG includes:
OWNERSHIP/
BLOCK/PROJECT LICENCES AREA (KM
2
)  INTEREST
Crater Mountain EL1115 41 51% earn-in
EL1353 662 51% earn-in
EL1384 10 51% earn-in
Lambuso EL1307 857 80% earn-in
ELA 1381 512 80% earn-in
Wamum EL1369-Kainantu 2,493 100%
Wau Block EL1365-Wau 184 90%
EL1370-Heiweni 2,558 90%
ELA1371-Tekadu 2,356 90%
EL1377-Manga 1,708 90%
EL1378-Sela 759 90%
Oram EL1367 1,296 100%
Wedau EL1368 443 100%
Manus Island EL1326 273 65% earn-in 
with option 
to increase 
to 70%
Where EL is an exploration license and ELA is an exploration license application.
The Company has two diamond drill programmes underway, one on the Crater Mountain project and one at Lambuso on New Ireland and has
also recently initiated a start-up exploration programme on Manus Island, a joint venture recently secured. The Company has also begun a
regional exploration programme on the remaining license areas with the objective of target identification for specific exploration programmes.
Company infrastructure and human resources in PNG
The Company has established the following infrastructure in PNG:
  A regional head office in Port Moresby.
  A logistical office in Goroka (to service Crater Mountain).
  A main exploration camp near Guasa Village at Crater Mountain.
  A satellite exploration camp on the Nevera Prospect at Crater Mountain.
Infrastructure to support the drilling programme planned for Lambuso over the coming months is currently being renovated. A warehouse is
being established at the seaport of Lae in order to improve supply chain efficiency for our exploration operations. This will help reduce
reliance on airfreight and help with the reduction of higher costs generally associated with exploration in PNG.
We have built a small, highly experienced team in PNG and are currently recruiting geologists to form the core of the regional exploration
team. We have also recruited a number of graduate geologists to support more senior personnel.
Crater Mountain Programme
Initial results from the Crater Mountain diamond drill programme are encouraging. Hole NEV-08 intersected a mineralised width of 158 m
averaging 1.4 g/t gold from 220 m to 378 m hole depth, with hydrothermal brecciation, disseminated, fracture-filled and vein sulphide
mineralization encountered throughout the entire hole length of 450 m. The results confirm a drill hole interval of 115 m of 1.8 g/t gold
reported by then BHP in the same area in 1997, and appear to significantly increase the intersected width of mineralization.  TRIPLE PLATE
JUNCTION PLC 
Triple Plate Junction PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 8
Off-loading supplies at Mamati Base Camp, Crater Mountain, Papua New Guinea.
Michael Eyal, receiving a ceremonial welcome by landowners at Mamati Base Camp, Crater Mountain, Papua New Guinea. Chairman's Statement continued
Triple Plate Junction PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9
Pyrite and carbonate-base metal dominated veins and fractures encountered in the TPJ drill-hole are multi-phased and hosted in an
extensively altered and brecciated volcanic pile and basement sediments. Gold grades within the 158 m interval averaging 1.4 g/t gold
appear to be increasing with hole depth, as evidenced by intercepts of:
  12 metres at 1.11 g/t gold from 220-232 metres
  14 metres at 1.18 g/t gold from 236-250 metres
  12 metres at 1.64 g/t gold from 262-274 metres
  58 metres at 1.89 g/t gold from 284-342 metres
  20 metres at 2.33 g/t gold from 358-378 metres
At this early stage of exploration, the extent of mineralization is unknown. A drilling programme is continuing in order to better understand
structural-lithological controls and geometry of the mineralization.
The drill-intersected mineralization occurs in the Nevera prospect area, one of five areas of interest identified in the Crater Mountain
structural corridor. The Nevera prospect is characterized by extensive argillic alteration, gold and base-metal soil anomalism over an area of
some 5 km by 2 km. Early hand dug trenches by previous explorers returned gold values of 35 m at 3.1 g/t and 54 m at 1.21 g/t, but all
surface work has been hampered by three to six metres of volcanic ash that blanketed the area in Quaternary times. 
Crater Mountain is one of a number of Pliocene to Quaternary strata-volcanoes that lie in the tectonically active New Guinea Mobile Belt.
The Mobile Belt hosts several world-class gold-copper deposits including Ok Tedi, Porgera, Hidden Valley and Wafi, and the underground
vein gold deposits of Kainantu and Tolukuma. 
Prior to commencing the current drilling programme, the Company compiled all existing data at Crater Mountain including the re-
processing and re-interpretation of airborne and ground magnetic data, geochemical data, and landsat structural and lithological data. This
work together with new geological mapping and sampling has identified four highly prospective targets within the Nevera prospect area. 
TPJ also commissioned geological consultants Sinclair Knight Merz (SKM) to examine a suite of rocks taken from the Nevera prospect. SKM
has reported that the rocks comprising dacites, sediments, intrusives, hydrothermal breccias and a diatreme breccia, reveal similarities
between Crater Mountain and the world-class Porgera deposit of similar geological age. Porgera production to date and remaining reserves
total approximately 20 Moz of gold.
FINANCING
In May 2005 the Company concluded an equity financing with institutions in London and North America raising gross proceeds of 
 11.7 million. These funds are to be spent on exploration programmes in PNG and Vietnam. The Company has a strong treasury and is in a
position to continue to explore its properties in the most appropriate manner.
PLANS FOR THIS YEAR
Management is focusing efforts into actively exploring the portfolio in Vietnam and PNG with comprehensive exploration programmes
designed on both a regional and project basis. The Company's strong treasury also gives it the potential to fast-track projects if they display
sufficient potential.
MANAGEMENT
The Board has been complemented by the development of a strong middle-management team recruited to assist with in-country
operations. This investment in human resources has proved invaluable in operations in PNG as the team's experience allows it to deal with
the idiosyncrasies of operating in challenging logistical and technical environments.
CONCLUSION
During the past year management have secured the Pu Sam Cap project in Vietnam and have built a first class portfolio of exploration
projects in PNG. The Company has also secured institutional support to enable the Company to properly explore the portfolio. 
The Directors are encouraged by initial results and believe that the systematic and comprehensive exploration programmes now underway
have the potential to yield substantial value for shareholders.
Ian Gowrie-Smith
Chairman
8 June 2005
TRIPLE PLATE
JUNCTION PLC 