 2 TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003
Turnover for 2003 on continuing activities was  527.5 million
compared with  512.5 million in the previous year , an increase
of 3 per cent. Profit before taxation, impairment provisions,
goodwill amortisation, and exceptional items was  20.0 million
(2002 -  19.2 million). No impairment provisions were made
this year (2002 -  10.4 million), goodwill amortisation was
 1.8 million (2002 -  2.1 million) and exceptional items
totalled  15.0 million (2002 -  1.2 million credit).After these
items the profit before taxation amounted to  3.2 million
(2002 -  7.9 million).
The exceptional items totalling  15.0 million (2002 -  1.2 million
credit) comprise reorganisation costs of the group's magnetic
businesses of  3.7 million; goodwill in respect of these
magnetic businesses of  10.1 million which had previously
been written-off to reserves in 1995; the loss on sale of the
business of Air Transport Avionics Limited of  0.4 million 
and associated goodwill written-off to reserves in 1994 of 
 0.8 million.A taxation charge of  3.2 million has been incurred
being at an effective rate of 23 per cent (2002 - 27 per cent).
Interest costs have reduced to  2.1 million from  3.2 million 
in 2002. Earnings per share before impairment provisions,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 10.4p
compared with 10.1p in 2002.
After a difficult first half-year I am pleased to report that the
group achieved a 19 per cent growth in profit over the first half
of 2003. Operating profit before goodwill amortisation increased
to  12.0 million from  10.1 million in the first half of 2003 and
compares with  9.3 million in the second half of 2002.
The group ended the year with net borrowings of  78.2 million
compared with  55.8 million in 2002.The increase in borrowings
was mainly due to the US$51.3 million ( 30.3 million)
consideration for the acquisition of Optek Technology Inc.
The reduction in the borrowings before the acquisition of
Optek Technology confirms the strong cash management
of the group.
During the year TT electronics has benefited from a continuing
growth in the requirement for electronic products by the
automotive industry.Automotive sales have grown by 12 
per cent and the group has received substantial new orders
amounting to over  350 million spread over the lives of the
product lines we are supplying. Sales to the telecom industry
have continued to suffer from lack of demand. Order intake,
however , has recently shown signs of improvement.As stated
in my half-year Chairman's statement we have discontinued 
our laminations business and closed our ferrite manufacturing
in the USA and United Kingdom.We are transferring our ferrite
manufacturing to India and are in the course of expanding 
our Indian factory to handle the increased volumes.
Within the Electrical sector we continue to concentrate on those
business areas which in the future will have the ability to meet
the group's financial requirements. During the year we ceased
the manufacture of generator sets in the United Kingdom and
these are now only manufactured in our Mexican facility.
We have continued to follow our policy of seeking to acquire
businesses at sensible prices which will strengthen our position
in the marketplace.As reported in my interim statement, the
net assets of Demo Tableaux de Commande SA with a book
value of  4.4 million were purchased for  1.7 million on
14 March 2003. Demo manufactures electromechanical climate
controls which complement our electronic climate control units.
In recent months there has been an
improvement in the group's order
intake and as a result TT electronics
looks forward with confidence to
better trading conditions.
The acquisition of Optek T echnology
is a significant expansion of our
successful sensor activities.
John Newman
Chairman's statement TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003 3
On 3 December 2003 Optek Technology Inc was acquired 
for a consideration of US$51.3 million ( 30.3 million) subject 
to completion accounts.The Company has its engineering 
and administrative centre at Carrollton,Texas, USA and its
manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico, the other side of the
USA border to El Paso.This acquisition represents a significant
expansion of the group's sensor activities. In the year to 
31 January 2003 Optek Technology made profits before goodwill
amortisation, interest and tax of US$4.0 million ( 2.4 million)
on a turnover of US$68.6 million ( 40.4 million). Prior to 
the acquisition Optek Technology closed its silicon wafer
manufacturing facility and consolidated all manufacturing 
in Juarez, Mexico resulting in a significant improvement 
in profitability. Optek Technology is a leading supplier of
infrared light emitting diodes.These components are used in
marketplaces served by the group including the office equipment
market where the products are used for photocopiers and mail
handling devices to monitor the edge of a moving sheet of
paper . Optek Technology also manufactures sensors for the
automotive industry particularly used for cam and crankshafts.
The reputation of Optek Technology in the marketplace leads us 
to believe that there will be opportunity for good future growth.
On 11 March 2004,TT electronics announced the acquisition
of Sensopad Technologies Ltd, for a cash consideration of 
 1.4 million together with the payment of future royalties.
Sensopad Technologies has developed an inductive sensor
technology that has both position and angle capabilities.
The group believes that this is the technology which will enable 
it to secure orders from the automotive industry in the year
2006 onwards when we commence to replace products based
on the Hall effect technology.This acquisition will ensure the
group's future growth in the automotive market.
TT electronics holds a 24.4 per cent shareholding in Pressac plc,
a manufacturer of relays, electronic and plastic components
for the automotive and telecom accessories markets. On 
7 January 2004, Sheridan Comonte joined the Board of Pressac;
in 2003 we did not have a significant influence on the affairs 
of Pressac and have therefore treated this shareholding as an
investment. Pressac has a strong presence in the European
automotive industry particularly in France.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.36p per share,
this brings the total dividend for the year to 10.05p, the same
as last year .The dividend will be paid to shareholders on the
register on 21 May and will be payable on 28 May 2004.
The requirement to adopt International Financial Reporting
Standards comes into effect with our 2005 accounts.We are
keeping the matter under review to ensure that the adoption 
of these standards runs smoothly.
The Board continues to address the issues of Corporate
Governance including the Revised Code based on the 
reports of Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith. Mr Timothy
Reed, a non-executive Director of TT electronics plc, comes up
for re-election as an independent non-executive Director at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter .
Timothy Reed, aged 63, has been a non-executive Director for
more than the nine year term recommended for guidance in the
Revised Code; he is a former corporate lawyer who has
presented a strong independent voice on the Board since his
appointment. He has seen the group evolve over recent years
and it is the opinion of the whole Board that as an independent
non-executive Director his continuing involvement in the 
group will be beneficial to the future of TT electronics plc.
Group turnover by market %
Automotive 42
Industrial 14
Telecom  6
Computer  4
Power generation 10
Power transmission 24
Group turnover by product %
Sensors and electronic systems 31
Electronic components 29
Electronic manufacturing services 6
Power and data transmission 24
Power systems 10 4 TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003
The executive and non-executive Directors recommend that
shareholders vote in favour of Timothy Reed being re-elected 
as an independent non-executive Director at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Board will be seeking shareholder approval, as set out in 
the accompanying circular , at the Annual General Meeting on
19 May 2004 for the adoption of two new share option plans
to replace the existing schemes, one of which expires in May
2004 and the other in 2006, and amendments to the current
share option schemes to allow the use of Treasury Shares. Due
to the economic downturn, particularly in the telecom industry,
the group's profits have been at lower levels.As a result the
performance criteria of the share incentive schemes have not 
in recent years been met.The Board considers that share option
plans have two principal objectives, firstly to make senior
managers of operating companies feel part of TT electronics
and share in its success and secondly to provide senior staff
based at head office with an incentive to achieve above average
performance for the benefit of shareholders.The Board intends
to discuss these proposals with major shareholders and subject
to their support the share option plan resolutions set out on
page 55 will be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting.The Board of TT electronics is recommending that
shareholders vote in favour of these resolutions.
The past two years have been a difficult trading period for
manufacturers supplying the electronics industries.The group's
workforce has responded well despite, in many companies, some
of their colleagues having to accept redundancy. I would like to
thank them for their perseverance.As the trading environment
continues to improve, the business outlook becomes better
which in turn will benefit all the group's employees.
I would like to pay tribute to Sheridan Comonte, who retires 
on 5 April having reached the age of 65. Over the past sixteen
years Sheridan's considerable knowledge and experience 
has made an immense contribution to TT electronics.
As announced in my half-year statement, Neil Rodgers 
will take over as Chief Executive on Sheridan's retirement.
The weakening of the US dollar against other currencies
creates its own challenges, but also opportunities. For the last
two years we have been cautious and whilst there has been
encouraging news we have, in retrospect, been rightly guarded
in believing it was sustainable. In recent months we have
experienced an improvement in order intake which we believe
will be maintained and as a result now look forward with
confidence to better trading conditions in the current year .
John W Newman
Executive Chairman
29 March 2004
Chairman's statement continued
Robert A Fletcher
Divisional Chief Executive
Graham M Entwistle
Divisional Chief Executive
Thomas Moore
Divisional Chief Executive
John W Newman 
Executive Chairman
Neil A Rodgers
Chief Executive ( April 2004)
Roderick W Weaver
Finance Director
James W Armstrong
Corporate Development Director
Management team