 I take over as Chairman of your Company at an exciting time  
for Tullow. 2011 has been a very good year for the Group.  
We have drilled 35 Exploration and Appraisal (E&A) wells  
with a 74% success ratio and have made further discoveries  
in Ghana and Uganda as well as opening up a major new  
basin with significant potential offshore French Guiana.  
Once again, this represents an industry-leading result for  
our exploration-led growth strategy.
Our financial performance has also been strong with  
record results for 2011. Sales revenue grew 111% to  
$2.3 billion (2010: $1.1 billion) as a result of a 41% increase  
in sales volumes and significantly higher average price  
realisations. Profit before tax was up 499% to $1,073 million 
(2010: $179 million). Profit after tax for the year increased  
670% to $689 million (2010: $90 million). Basic earnings per 
share grew 795% to 72.5 cents (2010: 8.1 cents). During the year 
we invested $1.4 billion in operations and spent $737 million  
on acquisitions. We also increased the debt facilities available  
to us to strengthen the financial resources of the Group and 
position ourselves to pursue new opportunities. 
Simon Thompson  
Chairman
 We are committed to building strong 
relationships with the countries and 
communities in which we operate,  
that will benefit all parties and  
stand the test of time. 
We have enhanced our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
processes, aligning and embedding high standards across the 
business to ensure that we continue to improve the health and 
safety of our employees and contractors and safeguard the 
environment. In 2011, we achieved the best safety performance 
in our history with our lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) of 0.38. We also continued to foster the creation of 
shared prosperity in the countries and communities where we 
operate through localisation, local content development and 
social enterprise investment, which increased 346% to  
$11.6 million in 2011. 
During the course of 2011 the Group faced some significant 
strategic and operational challenges. Progressing our major 
project in Uganda took considerably longer than originally 
envisaged. The discovery of oil by Tullow has created the 
opportunity to transform the economy of Uganda, and the lives 
of local people and communities, if wisely managed. This has 
triggered a debate, at every level, about how best to develop 
these resources in the national interest. Tullow's commitment 
to reaching an agreement that will benefit all parties and to 
building durable relationships that will stand the test of time 
was rewarded in February 2012. We signed two new Production 
Sharing Agreements (PSAs) with the Government of Uganda, 
and completed the farm-down of two-thirds of our Ugandan 
licences to CNOOC and Total. We are now ready, with our 
partners, to embark upon the development of the country's  
oil industry. First oil could be as soon as late 2012, with  
material production volumes likely to be from 2016.
In October 2011, allegations were made in the Ugandan 
Parliament that Tullow employees had bribed senior 
government ministers. The accusations were made on the  
basis of forged documents and we have worked with the UK 
Serious Fraud Office, the Metropolitan Police and the relevant 
authorities in Uganda and Malta (where the payments were 
allegedly made) to demonstrate irrefutably that the allegations 
are entirely unfounded. Tullow has an absolute commitment  
to upholding high ethical standards. Our approach is based  
not only on our legal obligations, but on the firm belief that  
our reputation for integrity underpins our attractiveness  
as an employer, a business partner and an investor in the 
countries where we operate. 
8
Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
Chairman's statement In Ghana, we have experienced technical challenges related  
to the completions of the Jubilee Phase 1 production wells.  
The cause has been identified and remedial work has already 
commenced. This work, in parallel with the Phase 1A 
development which was approved in January 2012, is expected  
to restore production capacity steadily during the year. The Plan 
of Development (PoD) for Tweneboa-Enyenra-Ntomme (TEN) 
discoveries in Ghana is progressing well and is expected to be 
submitted in the second half of 2012. The Group underpinned its 
long-term commitment to Ghana with a secondary listing on the 
Ghana Stock Exchange in July 2011, which raised approximately 
$72 million. This provides the opportunity for Ghanaian individuals 
and institutions to invest in the future of their oil industry and to 
share in the performance of Tullow's global operations.
Tullow's financial position has been significantly strengthened 
by production and cash flow from the Jubilee field. As a result, 
the Board feels that it is appropriate to increase the final 
dividend to 8.0 pence per share, which brings the total payout 
for the year to 12 pence per share. This represents an increase 
of 100% compared with 2010. The dividend will be paid on  
24 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 20 April 2012. 
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on 16 May 2012 
at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ. A 
meeting for shareholders in Ireland will be held on 30 May 2012 
at the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, No.6 Kildare 
Street, Dublin 2.
Our successful exploration-led growth strategy requires 
disciplined resource allocation and effective risk management  
to be embedded into all of our activities. The broad range of risks 
that we face are outlined in this report, starting on page 40, and 
the measures that we take to mitigate them are necessarily 
varied and numerous. However, underpinning them all is a 
corporate culture that strikes a balance between entrepreneurial 
risk-taking and prudent risk management, combined  
with outstanding people with a strong commitment to the  
long-term success of Tullow. 
Continuing this success depends upon our ability to build 
organisational capacity without compromising our unique 
culture. As we continue to grow, it is necessary to introduce 
more formal processes and procedures, but we remain 
absolutely committed to maintaining our entrepreneurial 
character and to upholding our core values of teamwork  
and commitment, entrepreneurial spirit and initiative,  
focus on results, and integrity and respect. 
At the end of 2011, Pat Plunkett retired after 11 years as 
Chairman. David Williams, Chairman of the Audit Committee, will 
retire after the AGM in 2012 after six years on the Board. Steve 
McTiernan, the Senior Independent Director, will retire from the 
Board before the end of 2012 after 10 years on the Board. I would 
like to thank them on your behalf, and on behalf of the Board, for 
their contribution to a period of outstanding growth and success 
for Tullow. In March 2012, Steve Lucas was appointed as a 
non-executive Director with effect from 14 March 2012.
In our search for two new directors, we have identified the 
personal attributes, background and experience that we require 
for the next phase of growth. We will also seek to increase the 
diversity of the Board - both gender and nationality - as part of 
this process and will conduct the searches sequentially to ensure 
that the two successful candidates bring complementary skills 
and experience to Tullow.
Executive remuneration has been the focus of considerable 
comment over the past year. At the beginning of 2011, Tullow 
granted 20% salary increases to our Executive Directors, to 
reflect the outstanding performance and growth of the company 
and the fact that increases in the previous two years were 
limited to inflation adjustments. In 2012, in common with all 
other members of staff, the Executive Directors will receive 
salary increases in line with inflation. 
As part of my induction as Chairman, I conducted the Board 
evaluation in 2011. Timely approvals for the PoD in Uganda  
and production ramp-up in Ghana are clearly key issues for  
the Board in 2012. Talent management, succession planning,  
and financial and portfolio management will also be areas of 
particular focus. In addition, we intend to continue to improve  
the quality of information and analysis available to the Board  
on political and economic risk, the competitive landscape and 
industry benchmarking. 
The early months of 2012 have seen strong oil prices driven by 
uncertainty over supply. While Tullow carefully hedges much of its 
production we remain exposed to any major change in oil prices. 
Recent forecasts expect global economic growth to exceed 3% 
this year, which is seen as a key level to underpin oil prices. Asia 
is likely to be the main driver of economic growth and almost all 
of the growth in demand for oil is expected to come from 
non-OECD countries. 
The performance of Tullow is testament to the strength of our 
people. I thank Aidan Heavey, our Chief Executive Officer, the 
Executive Directors and all Tullow employees and contractors 
for their contribution to past performance and commitment  
to the future success of the Group. Tullow has consistently 
demonstrated the ability to create new opportunities for growth, 
develop major projects effectively and generate exceptional 
shareholder returns. Despite the current economic 
uncertainties, the outlook for oil price remains good and the 
Group's exploration programme and development pipeline  
have never been stronger. With these rich opportunities  
ahead, Tullow looks forward with confidence and excitement.  
Simon R Thompson 
Chairman
More information Page
Risk management  40
Chairman's introduction  
to corporate governance  76
Board objectives and performance 78
9
www.tullowoil.com
BUSINESS REVIEW
1