 Dear Shareholder
As we continue to build organisational capacity and improve  
our management processes and procedures, we seek to strike  
a balance between entrepreneurial risk-taking and prudent  
risk management. While the Board can, and does, provide 
leadership, the good reputation of the Company depends upon 
the behaviour of every single employee and contractor, which  
is why we seek to maintain an environment where everybody 
feels responsible for the future success of the business. 
In this introduction to the corporate governance report I will 
briefly cover the Board's activities during 2012 before focusing 
on three issues: diversity, remuneration and stakeholder 
relations. In the accompanying table on page 88 and 89 there  
is a detailed update on the Board's performance against our 
2012 objectives and an outline of our 2013 plans.
Board performance in 2012
The Board set objectives in six key areas in 2012. In summary, 
we increased the Board time allocated to the discussion of 
strategy as we took a number of important resource allocation 
and portfolio management decisions in relation to new ventures 
and acquisitions and the sale of our operations in Bangladesh, 
Pakistan and the Southern North Sea. Risk management 
remains a key focus for the Group and we have decided to form  
a new EHS Committee in 2013 to ensure that adequate time is 
devoted to managing personal and process safety, occupational 
and community health and the environment, all of which are 
critical issues for Tullow and our stakeholders. 
Succession planning has been further enhanced with personal 
development plans for potential successors to key positions 
within the Group. The Board Committees continue to function 
well. Two new non-executive Directors were appointed during 
the year and a huge amount of work was undertaken by the 
CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION
Your Board remains focused on effective risk management in order to create long-term 
sustainable value for the benefit of all stakeholders. Maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance without compromising Tullow's unique culture is central to this task.
ACHIEVING HIGH ST ANDARDS OF 
GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT
Remuneration Committee, in response to shareholder feedback, 
to ensure that our executive pay is fit for purpose and aligned 
with our exploration-led growth strategy.
The Board received presentations from a number of external 
speakers - drawn from politics, NGOs, academia and the City - 
to help inform our debates on the future shape of the business. 
Each Director also has a personal development plan to acquire 
or refresh skills and knowledge relevant to our plans for the 
coming year. The time spent by the Board, set out in page 92, 
reflects these activities.
2012 Board evaluation
Immediately prior to his retirement as Senior Independent 
Director (SID), I asked Steve McTiernan to undertake the annual 
review of board effectiveness to ensure that I got honest 
feedback on my own performance at the end of my first year as 
Chairman. The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one 
structured interviews with each Director and a Board discussion 
of the conclusions and recommendations. I am pleased to report 
that as a Board we continue to make good progress in improving  
the effectiveness of our discussions, the atmosphere remains 
collegiate but appropriately challenging, and we are achieving  
a better balance between monitoring past performance and 
debating the future direction of the business. 
2013 Board objectives
The Board objectives for 2013 on page 89, and the rolling  
12 month Board agenda, reflect the priorities agreed following  
the 2012 Board Evaluation. I will undertake a mid-year review  
of progress in each area with Graham Martin, General Counsel 
and Company Secretary and the nominated Executive Director 
for Board matters, to ensure that we are on track to achieve 
these objectives.
All the Directors are agreed that the major opportunities and 
challenges facing the Company are to maintain our success in 
exploration; to optimise our portfolio of exploration, appraisal 
and development assets; to further develop trusting and 
mutually beneficial relationships with our key stakeholders;  
and to continue to build organisational capacity without 
compromising Tullow's entrepreneurial culture. 
Board membership
During 2012, David Williams, chair of the Audit Committee,  
and Steve McTiernan, SID, retired from the Board after six  
and 10 years respectively. I would like to thank both for their 
outstanding contribution during a period of remarkable  
growth and success for Tullow. 
 We are fortunate to 
have many outstanding 
people at Tullow who 
are determined to  
 do the right thing'. 
86 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
4
Steve Lucas, who joined the Board in March 2012, has taken over  
as chair of the Audit Committee. He brings a wealth of financial 
and treasury experience, as Finance Director of National Grid 
and non-executive chair of two Audit Committees, as well as 
considerable knowledge of the oil and gas industry gained at 
Shell and BG. Anne Drinkwater joined the Board in July 2012 
after a successful career at BP. She brings recent and directly 
relevant operating experience and has already made a 
significant contribution to our discussions on EHS and 
community relations. Anne will chair the new EHS Committee. 
David Bamford has taken on the role of SID, in addition to 
chairing the Remuneration Committee.
Diversity
At Tullow we fully recognise and embrace the benefits of diversity 
and regard the discussion of a broad range of views at Board level 
as an essential element in maintaining our competitive advantage. 
A truly diverse Board consists of people with different personal 
attributes, skills, experience and backgrounds, as well as 
differences in nationality, race and gender.
In the UK, the main focus has been on gender diversity and at 
Tullow the proportion of female non-executive Directors once 
again exceeds 25% and in total 18% of the Board are female. 
We will continue to consider candidates for future Board 
appointments from the widest possible pool and will only engage 
executive search firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code 
of Conduct on Diversity in the Boardroom published in July 2012. 
We have also ensured that the composition of the Nominations 
Committee reflects the level of diversity that we are seeking to 
achieve on the Board as a whole.
We regard the development of a diverse, high-calibre pipeline of 
senior executives, with Board potential, as our highest human 
resource priority. However, the challenge of dealing with a long 
legacy of under-representation of females in senior executive 
roles in the oil industry remains. Women currently represent 
19.3% of management, and we will continue to focus on 
increasing this proportion in the coming years.
Remuneration
In response to shareholder feedback and in light of political  
and public concern about senior executive pay, we are 
recommending a radical overhaul of pay for our Executive 
Directors and senior management from 2013 onwards.  
Our objective is to provide a simple and competitive package, 
strongly linked to strategy and performance, which will attract 
and retain the best talent, provide an effective incentive to 
achieve the strategic objectives agreed by the Board, and  
better align the interests of management and investors.
The new remuneration policy is set out in detail in the 
Remuneration Report on page 98. One of the main advantages  
of the new scheme is that it consists of just two elements - fixed 
pay including base salary, pension and benefits and performance 
related pay in the form of the Tullow Incentive Plan (TIP) -  
and can therefore be summarised in just three bullet points:
 Base Salary increases for Executive Directors will, in 
general, not exceed the average increase awarded to  
other UK-based employees; 
 The TIP will be paid up to a maximum of 600% of Base Salary 
(versus approximately 700% under the existing annual bonus, 
deferred bonus and Performance Share Plans combined) 
subject to the achievement of a balanced score card of 
stretching financial, operational and shareholder return-
related objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of 
Tullow's long-term strategy; and
 The TIP will be paid in cash (up to a maximum of 100%  
of Base Salary) and shares, deferred for five years (versus 
three under the current plans), subject to claw-back. 
After consulting a number of major shareholders and 
shareholder organisations, we believe that the new plan is 
appropriate for our business and fairly reflects evolving views  
on best practice in executive pay.  
More information
12 Chairman's statement
98 Directors' remuneration report
88 Board performance evaluation
Male 82%
Female  18%
Board diversity
87 www.tullowoil.com