 The Group's Surface Ship Torpedo Defence
system entered service with the Royal Navy
on schedule during the year and a contract
for a torpedo defence technology
demonstrator programme for the US Navy
was also secured. Both Lockheed Martin and
General Dynamics have selected Ultra's
torpedo defence system for the US Navy's
Littoral Combat Ship.
Sales of battlespace IT equipment
contributed to the growth of this division,
with deliveries of high capacity radios to the
US Army for its Patriot missile defence
systems and network access equipment for
all the US armed services. The award to Ultra
in the UK of a contract from the US Navy for
the development of specialist cryptographic
equipment is expected to contribute to
future growth as contracts for production
items are secured. This is the first time the
US government has contracted offshore for
the development of such equipment.
MANAGEMENT CHANGES
As noted in the Chairman's Statement, it 
is planned that the management changes
described last year will come into full 
effect after the Annual General Meeting on
22 April 2005. Peter Macfarlane will retire
from the Board at that time, having been
Chairman since 1994, and I will take over
the role. On behalf of the Board I thank
Peter for his excellent contribution to the
development of Ultra, and we wish him well
in his retirement. Douglas Caster, currently
Chief Operating Officer will succeed me as
Chief Executive.
PROSPECTS
In Ultra's main defence markets, expenditure is
increasing on battlespace IT to enable better
situational awareness, quicker command and
control, and the synchronisation of military
effects with much improved accuracy.
Modern armed forces must be equipped to
allow the rapid deployment of light, mobile
troops and to be able to exploit superior
intelligence of the military situation through
the use of battlespace IT.
The perceived terrorist threat to individuals
and to economically important assets
together with the need to protect borders
and coastlines from illegal immigrants 
and smugglers are driving an increase in
global demand for surveillance and
enforcement systems.
With its range of niche businesses, Ultra is well
placed to benefit from these market forces.
In civil markets, aerospace is continuing to
recover with both Airbus and Boeing
forecasting increased build rates, leading to
further growth in original equipment sales
and after-market support. The growth in air
traffic is strong, driving new airport
construction and refurbishment with
increasing demand for airport IT systems.
Investment in rail transport and mass transit
systems that require specialist power
equipment continues, although in the UK
this will be at a lower level than experienced
in recent years.
Following its successful 2004, Ultra enters
2005 with a strong balance sheet and a
record order book. Its proven strategy of
providing niche products, being a responsive
and competent supplier and achieving
growth, both organically and through
acquisition, underpins further progress for
the Group. Ultra's investment in new
products and in the acquisition of
complementary businesses is expected to be
funded from internal cash generation, unless
a truly compelling acquisition opportunity
demanding additional finance arises. The
Board's prime objective is to outperform the
market in terms of annual increases in
shareholder value by delivering above
average annual increases in earnings.
The outlook for the Group remains
encouraging although in 2005 there will be
some impact on sales and profit due to the
weakness of the US dollar. However, current
market conditions together with recent
acquisitions and contract awards provide the
foundations for future growth. The Board
has confidence in the continued progress of
the Group in 2005.
Julian Blogh, Chief Executive
 395m
Order book
Maintaining historic levels of firm
order cover for the coming year
was  14.7m (2003:  13.9m) giving an
operating margin* of 17.9% (2003: 17.4%).
The continuing recovery in air travel since the
terrorist attacks of September 2001 drove the
launch of new aircraft development
programmes, an increase in build rates on
existing programmes and a rise in aftermarket
support activity during 2004. An important
achievement in the year was the selection of
Ultra to supply two sub-systems on the
Boeing 787 Dreamliner  aeroplane. Ultra 
will be the integrator and supply the
electronic controls for the system that
provides electro-thermal ice protection for the
wings of the 787. In addition, Ultra teamed
with Goodrich to provide the proximity
sensing equipment for the 787 passenger
cabin, cargo and landing gear doors. Sales 
of these systems should commence in 2008,
ahead of the 787 entering service in 2009.
Sales of Ultra's HiPPAG for the US Navy's
F/A-18 E/F Super Hornet aircraft achieved
record levels. The development of HiPPAG
variants for use in the munitions ejection
systems of both the US Small Diameter
Bomb programme and the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter aircraft proceeded to plan.
In the US, Ultra is supplying its joysticks and
related  cockpit' equipment for a large
number of different types of unmanned
aerial vehicles and for many variants of
vehicle within the Future Combat System
programme. In the UK, deliveries to BAE
Systems of the indirect vision equipment for
the Engineer Tank System and development
activity on the crew controls for the British
Army's Terrier combat engineering vehicle
progressed to plan.
INFORMATION & POWER SYSTEMS
Information & Power Systems, with the
integration of Videcom into the Airport
Systems business, consists of seven businesses
that supply information management and
power products for defence, commercial and
airport applications worldwide.
Sales increased in the division by 21.1% to
 115.6m (2003:  95.5m) of which 12.7%
was organic. Operating profit* increased
34.6% to  14.8m (2003:  11.0m). The
operating margin* was 12.8%, an increase
from 11.5% in the prior year.
The airport IT systems business achieved an
excellent performance which contributed
significantly to the growth of the division.
Development work on the IT infrastructure
for BAA's Terminal 5 at Heathrow Airport
proceeded well and Ultra's flight information
display system was selected by BAA to be
used throughout all its operations. In the US,
the airport IT system at Kansas City, for which
Ultra is the integrator, neared completion and
the installation of an integrated suite of
airport IT at Oakland, California, provides
another showcase for Ultra's systems
integration capabilities. UltraTrak, the 
world-leading passenger baggage
reconciliation system, was selected for all the
international airports in New Zealand,
building on the managed service provision
now operating successfully at Heathrow and
in Australia, as well as in the US.
The division benefited from a rise in
government expenditure on battlespace IT
which resulted in new sales and upgrades 
of the latest version of the ADSI data link
processor and situational awareness 
system. Radar coastal surveillance system
contracts were secured in the UAE 
and for commercial ports in the US to
improve homeland security. There was a
high level of contract manufacturing 
activity where deliveries of battlespace IT
equipment for the British Army Bowman
programme also increased.
Rolls-Royce placed an important order for
the development of a replacement control
system for the nuclear reactors that power
the Royal Navy's submarines. In the medium-
term, this is expected to lead to further
orders for production and long-term support.
TACTICAL & SONAR SYSTEMS
Tactical & Sonar Systems, with the addition
of DNE, comprises seven businesses in the
UK and North America that supply tactical
communications and underwater warfare
equipment to military users worldwide.
Sales in the division increased to  122.1m
from  109.0m in 2003, a rise of 12.0%.
Operating profit* increased 2.7% to  13.0m
(2003:  12.7m) giving an operating margin*
of 10.7%. At constant currencies the sales
growth was 19.9% and the operating profit*
growth was 19.2%.
As anticipated, the level of sales of sonobuoys
in the year was broadly unchanged from
2003. Sales of anti-submarine warfare mission
system equipment were also flat as deliveries
to the RAF Nimrod programme ended. One of
the highlights of the year was securing a
long-term, sole source partnering contract
with the UK Ministry of Defence for the
supply and support of all the UK's sonobuoys.
Ultra's dominance of the sonobuoy export
market continued with exports to France,
Canada, Australia and Korea.
THE GROUP'S INVESTMENT IN TWO FURTHER
ACQUISITIONS DURING 2004 STRENGTHENS 
ULTRA'S POSITION IN THE GROWTH SECTORS 
OF BATTLESPACE IT AND AIRPORT SYSTEMS.
111%
Cash performance
Operating cash flow** was again
excellent at  46.9m (2003:  48.3m).
Conversion of operating profit* to
operating cash flow** was 111%
Success
Ultra's proven strategy underpins
further progress for the Group
+15.4%
Earnings per share*
Earnings per share* was 15.4%
higher at 44.1p (2003: 38.2p)
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Chief Executive's Review Chief Executive's Review
Outlook
Current market conditions coupled
with recent acquisitions and contract
awards provide the foundations for
future growth
* before goodwill amortisation of  5.9m (2003:  4.9m) ** before goodwill amortisation
** after capital expenditure and Long-Term Incentive Plan share purchase