 2
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
Highlights
This has been a year of substantial achievement. We 
report a full year profit before tax of  704,000  
(2008: Loss of  343,000), the first in the group's  
history. Revenue was  4,168,000 (2008:  2,614,000) 
an increase of 59% with deferred income of  2,673,000 
(2008:  2,142,000). 
The need to provide top quality service support for our 
customer base means that our cost base has grown, but 
we are careful to link this development to our revenue 
and avoid any unnecessary overheads. Earnings per 
share were 0.21p (2008: loss per share of 0.023p). 
Adjusted earnings per share which exclude the impact 
of a substantial deferred tax credit and the non cash 
accounting charge related to share based payments were 
0.07p (2008: 0.015p).
During the year penetration of the NHS market has 
increased, with Beating the Blues  now available in 120 
of the 153 Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) in England. We also 
made progress with the GetFit products following the 
acquisition of GetFit Technologies Limited in December 
2008. Since the year end we have announced the launch 
of a Dutch version of Beating the Blues  and a major 
contract win in Northern Ireland which will see Beating 
the Blues  available to all GPs in the province.
The UK market
The NHS remains a key market in which we have 
steadily increased our coverage. Beating the Blues , 
our National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) recommended treatment for depression, is now 
available in 120 of the 153 PCTs in England. The extent 
of underlying coverage varies from PCT to PCT. We were 
pleased to see Yorkshire and Humber becoming the fifth 
Strategic Health Authority (SHA) to complete a regional 
procurement of Beating the Blues  for its PCTs. 
In July 2009 we announced the contract renewal by 
East Midlands SHA, taking its PCTs in to a third year of 
provision of Beating the Blues . This demonstrates the 
value that commissioners, based on experience, place 
on making this available within their PCTs. Once traction 
has been gained within the NHS it is gratifying when it 
is retained. At a time of increasing public expenditure 
constraint in the NHS we continue to emphasise the 
excellent cost benefit proposition Beating the Blues  
provides for health care commissioners. 
A major contract win in Northern Ireland (NI) was 
announced on 9 October 2009 - the eve of World 
Mental Health Day - by Michael McGimpsey the NI 
Health Minister. The contract, which runs to March 2012, 
is for an initial  1.125m with potential to rise to  2m 
over its lifetime. The choice of Beating the Blues  is 
a key component of the Northern Ireland Department 
of Health's strategy of addressing mental health issues 
comprehensively. Beating the Blues  is being made 
available in every GP practice in Northern Ireland and will 
provide an alternative to prescription of anti depressants, 
or putting patients on long waiting lists for face to face 
treatment. 
In December 2008 Ultrasis acquired GetFit Technologies 
Limited which owns an award-winning range of physical 
wellness programmes. These complement our emotional 
wellbeing product range. The GetFit product set has 
already facilitated our winning business with Sodexo Inc 
in the USA, NHS West Midlands and NHS Suffolk. The 
latter entered a 3 year contract to deliver its community 
initiative, Healthy Ambitions Suffolk , the recipient 
of a coveted Royal Society for Public Health award for 
work undertaken to improve the health and wellbeing 
of the county. These successes and other opportunities 
that have opened up following the GetFit acquisition 
vindicate the strategy of adding this additional arm to 
our business. 
Impact of latest NICE Guidelines 
On 28 October 2009, NICE announced updated 
guidelines on the treatment of depression, recognising 
Computerised Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CCBT) as 
a mainstream treatment of choice for mild and moderate 
depression. Two new guidelines have been issued, one 
for depression in adults and the other for depression in 
adults with a chronic physical health problem. These new 
guidelines supersede the previous technical appraisal 
(TA097 - Feb 2006) on CCBT and now constitute the 
authoritative documents determining how people 
suffering with depression should be treated.
We believe that this initiative will be positive for Ultrasis. 
From being a pioneer in the use of a little known but 
innovative treatment for depression - CCBT - Ultrasis 
has established itself the market leading provider of a 
NICE supported mainstream therapy, in a strong position 
to meet challenges posed by current competitors and 
potential market entrants. The NICE announcement 
opens up many new opportunities for Ultrasis as it, in 
effect, affirms that Beating the Blues  has demonstrated 
both cost and clinical effectiveness. Although more than 
75% of PCTs in England are already using Beating the 
Blues  there remains significant scope to extend the 
utilisation within some of those PCTs. We believe we 
can secure wider adoption as our message of improving 
patient choice and speeding access to affordable, cost 
effective treatment is increasingly heard.
The new NICE guidelines broaden the application for 
CCBT and will significantly increase the number of 
people for which Beating the Blues  is an appropriate 
treatment. The NICE Guidelines for Depression now 
recommend CCBT for people with persistent subthreshold 
depressive symptoms (as well as mild and moderate 
depression) and also for treatment of depression in 
people with a chronic physical illness. There may be up 
to twice as many people with sub threshold depressive 
symptoms as there are people with mild and moderate 
depression and the prevalence of depression in people 
with a chronic physical health problem is also much 
higher.
International
We continue to develop opportunities in international 
markets and announced recently that our partner 
Innohealth B.V. has completed a Dutch language version 
of Beating the Blues , launched in the Netherlands in  3
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
(continued)
October 2009. In October 2008 Beating the Blues  
was recognised by the Dutch Healthcare Insurance 
Board, CVZ, as a reimbursable treatment for mild to 
moderate depression. Beating the Blues  can now be 
offered by practitioners throughout the Netherlands as 
one of their options in treating patients with mild and 
moderate depression. Quick adoption in the Netherlands 
is anticipated with Ultrasis benefitting from an exclusivity 
fee and royalty stream from Innohealth. Having 
successfully completed this first translated version we 
are well positioned to look at further opportunities in 
other markets
The completion of the Dutch translation of Beating the 
Blues and launch in the Netherlands was a significant 
milestone for Ultrasis both from a technical standpoint 
and because the quality, efficacy and cost effectiveness 
of Beating the Blues  have been accepted and adopted 
for the treatment of mild and moderate depression in 
another country. We have developed with this the ability 
to integrate other language versions much more quickly 
into our technology platform.
We are receiving increasing interest from parties in 
other countries looking to provide Beating the Blues  in 
their markets and will continue to seek to develop these 
interests into commercial opportunities. We are also in 
further discussions in the US with a number of potential 
customers and business partners. We hope to be able to 
report further progress in the coming months. 
Financial Results
The Group reports a full year maiden profit before tax 
of  704,000, the first in the group's history (2008: Loss 
of  343,000). Group revenue was  4,168,000 (2008: 
 2,614,000), an increase of 59%. Deferred revenue of 
 2,673,000 (2008:  2,142,000) provides a base for the 
next year's performance. 
In accordance with IFRS 2 the Group has incurred a 
non-cash charge of  391,000 (2008:  566,000) in 
respect of share options. Other administrative expenses 
were  3,068,000 (2008:  2,188,000) and included 
unbudgeted costs of  122,000 incurred in connection 
with arrangements for and legal advice taken in respect 
of both an Extraordinary General Meeting of the 
company called by a minority shareholder group and the 
following AGM. The remainder of the increase is mostly 
attributable to strengthening the Ultrasis team to meet 
implementation and service requirements in the NHS and 
taking on additional GetFit personnel. 
GetFit Technologies Limited contributed  197,000 to the 
Group's revenue and  91,000 to the Group's profit before 
tax for the period from the date of acquisition to the 
year-end date.
Earnings per share of 0.21p (2008: loss per share of 
0.023p). Adjusted earnings per share which exclude the 
impact of a substantial deferred tax credit and the non 
cash accounting charge related to share based payments 
were 0.07p (2008: 0.015p).
Cash generation remains very strong and at 31 July 
2009. Group cash balances were  2,858,000 (2008: 
 2,036,000). The Group remains debt free.
Outlook
Ultrasis is well established in the core NHS market and 
has expanded its product range and customer base in 
the UK market. We are now making progress in overseas 
markets. The impact of the current global financial 
climate and impending constraints on public spending on 
our markets is as yet uncertain but we are confident that 
Ultrasis will continue to develop its business, building on 
the market leading position it now enjoys for its portfolio 
of cost effective therapies and its sound financial base. In 
2010 we will seek growth organically, by penetrating new 
markets and, should an appropriate opportunity present 
itself, by strategic acquisition.
Gerald Malone Nigel Brabbins 
Non Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
3 November 2009