  
  1   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
I am pleased to announce the Group's results for the year ended 31 March 2007. The Group 
generated revenues of  19.55m, compared to  17.65m in 2006, operating from 59 stores at 
31 March 2007 (2006: 60 stores) located across Northern and Central England. This 
increase in revenue, despite a small decrease in store numbers, is a further vindication of 
our strategy of switching Group focus from new store openings to maximising profitability 
from existing stores. We are now reaching the end of this consolidation process, which has 
seen the closure of some of our poorer performing stores and the introduction of new 
franchisees to others. During the year, three new stores have been opened in Ripley, 
Stockport and Coventry and the recent recruitment of a dedicated Franchisee Recruitment 
Manager is expected to facilitate the sourcing of new franchisees in the coming year.  
 
The Group will now look to build on this solid foundation by continuing to roll out corporate 
stores and its franchise concept into new markets across Northern and Central England.  
 
Financial review 
 
Revenue increased by 10.7% to  19.55m (2006:  17.65m), reflecting the increased sales 
from individual stores during the year generated by improved marketing, closure of poorer 
performing stores and the recruitment of high quality new franchisees. Network sales across 
the Group, including the value of retail sales by our franchisees (to give a measure of the 
Group's turnover on a more comparable basis to a conventional retailer), increased to 
 54.27m (2006:  48.58m). 
 
Like for like sales were up 11.7% compared to the previous year. Given United Carpets' 
franchise structure, like for like sales are not the best measure of the Group's financial 
performance, however, they do provide a good steer on the overall trading performance. 
Within the like for like sales performance the core floor coverings business achieved a 
13.5% like for like increase on the previous year whilst bed like for like sales decreased by 
2.8%. However, a new product range within the beds department, combined with a 
restructuring of the incentive scheme for staff on sales of beds has seen significant 
improvement in bed sales in the first three months of the new financial year. For the 15 
weeks since the year end, total like for like sales have increased by 20.9%, although this is 
against weak comparatives in the same period last year and we have yet to enter our key 
sales period during October and November.  
 
Following a Group reorganisation, certain costs previously included within cost of sales have 
been reclassified as administrative expenses. Cost of sales for the prior year have been 
reduced by  702,000 and administrative expenses increased by the same amount. 
Consequently, on a comparable basis, gross margin has increased slightly from 70.6% to 
71.0% with the benefits from improved product margins and better stock control being offset 
to some extent by a reduction in the proportion of franchise related income to total revenue 
as corporate stores have accounted for a greater proportion of turnover.  
 
Distribution costs increased in line with the increase in turnover from corporate stores and 
administrative expenses increased by 8.5% reflecting increases in rental costs and 
marketing as the network grew in the first half of the year in comparison to the same period 
in the previous year and further strengthening of the management team to support future 
growth.  
   
  2   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 
increased by 23.6% to  1.433m (2006:  1.159m). During the period the company incurred 
exceptional costs and a loss on disposal of fixed assets totaling  347,000 relating to the 
closure of 4 stores and 1 relocation and a further  57,000 as a result of goodwill 
amortisation. As a result, profit before tax was  1.03m.  
 
Earnings per share were 0.71p (2006: 0.66p). The Board recommends a final dividend of 
0.5p per share (2006: 0.5p) which together with the interim dividend of 0.25p per share 
(2006: 0.25p) paid in January makes a total ordinary dividend of 0.75p per share for the year 
(2006: 0.75p). Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be 
paid on 7 December 2007 to those shareholders whose names are on the register on  
2 November 2007. 
 
Operations review 
 
The Group ended the financial year with 59 branded stores across Northern and Central 
England. With the exception of 11 corporate stores, the remainder were all franchises 
operating under United Carpets' bespoke franchise model, which aims to combine the 
advantages of a multiple retailer with the entrepreneurial drive of an independent. As the 
Group continues to expand so its economics will improve, in particular, from more cost 
effective advertising, as well as the ability to leverage the other benefits of increased scale.  
 
Last year was one of consolidation in which we sought to maximize revenues from individual 
stores to provide a solid foundation for expansion of the franchise in 2007. Poorer 
performing branches have been closed and 12 new franchisees have been appointed over 
the year in addition to the opening of three new branches in Ripley, Coventry and Stockport. 
The appointment of a Franchisee Recruitment Manager will help us to recruit the quality 
individuals the Group will need in order to drive our next phase of expansion. 
 
As part of a drive to improve returns from the existing store portfolio the company has 
implemented a series of measures aimed at improving customer service and retail 
techniques. A central part of this strategy has been the appointment of Ray Tricker as Retail 
Operations Director in January 2007. Ray has focused on increasing the quality of customer 
service through a series of training days, in store visits and increased sales incentives for 
store staff which, in turn, has driven our growth in sales and the level of upselling on popular 
items.  
 
The Group is currently in the process of reviewing its sourcing and distribution systems in 
order to ensure greater efficiency in supplying the right stores with the right products, cutting 
costs associated with large individual store inventories and increasing understanding of 
trends in customer tastes. A centralised depot has already been set up in order to handle 
deliveries of beds and customers choose from a wide selection of examples within individual 
stores after which they receive their delivery from the central depot within a forty eight hour 
period. Any future expansion in store numbers is expected to generate further efficiencies 
through greater central control of product sourcing and distribution.   
   
  3   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Floor coverings 
 
The majority of Group revenues are derived from the sale of floor coverings, predominantly 
carpet, laminate and vinyl flooring through franchised stores and the Group's own corporate 
stores. Trading has been strong throughout the year, helped by an active housing market, 
increased advertising, improved store layout and a greater emphasis on customer service, 
backed by regular training days to ensure best practice is shared across the Group. Over the 
course of the year, there has been a 13.5% improvement in like for like sales.  
 
The Group continues to carry out significant advertising in targeted areas where it has 
sufficient critical mass and will look to increase its area of network coverage in 2007 in line 
with the growth of its store portfolio.   
 
Beds 
 
Beds are sold through the majority of the store network with franchisees earning a 
commission on sales. Recently, this part of the business has not performed to its full 
potential and like for like sales over 2006 showed a 2.8% decrease. However, restructuring 
of the incentive scheme for salespersons, the sourcing of a new product range with higher 
margins and greater opportunity for upselling and innovative use of store layout has seen an 
11.6% improvement in like for like sales in the first 15 weeks of the new financial year. By 
combining these in store improvements with the centralised depot for bed distribution, which 
removes the necessity for individual stores to carry large stocks of beds, the Group aims to 
build its market share of these products, alongside its core brands of floor coverings.  
 
Store opening programme 
 
At the end of the year, we operated 59 stores, of which 11 were corporate stores and 48 
were franchised.  Our strategy throughout this year has been to reduce the number of store 
openings and to increase focus on consolidation of our existing position and improving the 
quality of individual franchisees/store managers and customer service across all our stores.  
 
During 2006, we successfully opened three new stores in Ripley, Stockport and Coventry, 
reassigned 12 stores to new franchisees, closed four stores and relocated one store. Of the 
11 corporate stores, six are considered to be core corporate stores to be retained to enable 
ongoing training and product development, one is likely to be closed and four will be 
assigned to suitable franchisees. 
 
In the three months since the end of the financial year, we have successfully opened a 
corporate store in Wetherby and a franchised store in Northenden with Ilkeston due to open 
shortly and we aim to pursue a policy of steady growth in the number of outlets throughout 
2007.  
 
People 
 
The Company has performed well during the period and much of this achievement is due to 
the hard work of the people employed throughout the Group.  Staff training and development 
has been one of the key drivers in the improved financial performance of the Group in 2006 
and we will continue to invest in this area going forward. The Board thanks all employees for 
their dedication and commitment and looks forward to building on this during 2007. 
 
 
   
  4   
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Outlook 
 
Since the year end, trading has continued to be positive with total like for like sales for the 15 
weeks to 12 July 2007 up by 20.9%, albeit against weaker comparables due to the World 
Cup and exceptionally hot weather in the previous year. The Group has also been affected 
by the extensive flooding in Northern England, which caused the Rotherham store to close 
for 12 days. However, in general, the Board has been encouraged by this start to the first 
half of 2007 and believes that it shows the Group has adopted the correct strategy to 
support future growth.   A key focus during 2007 will be to ensure that new stores and 
franchisees maintain and build on the level of store quality and customer care that has been 
achieved during the consolidation period of 2006.  
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Chairman 
 