  1 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
 
Chairman's statement  
 
 
I am pleased to report on a positive performance by the Group for the 12 months ended 31 March 
2011. Against a very challenging market environment, the Company delivered increases to network 
sales and profits. This was a reassuring performance at a time when customers have become 
increasingly cautious. The need to have the right offers in each of our stores has become 
increasingly important and we have focused primarily on continuing to deliver value for money to our 
customers. Over the period, total store numbers increased slightly up from 82 to 86 at the year end 
and we have continued to focus on expanding the number of franchised stores. The business has 
demonstrated that it has firm foundations and is able to deliver a good result in a tough market. 
 
Financial review 
 
Network sales across the Group, including the value of retail sales by our franchisees (to give a 
measure of the Group's turnover on a more comparable basis to a conventional retailer), increased 
2.4% to  71.6m (2010:  69.9m). Revenue, which as in previous years includes marketing and rental 
costs incurred by the Group and recharged to franchisees, was level at  27.5m (2010:  27.5m). 
 
Reflecting consumer caution in the period under review, like for like sales across the whole of the 
network were 1.4% lower than the previous year. Like for like sales improved during the second half 
of our financial year and, we believe, compare favourably to competitor performance in our sector 
and across the wider retail spectrum. 
  
Given United Carpets' franchise structure, like for like sales are not necessarily the best measure of 
the Group's financial performance but they do provide a good steer on the overall trading 
performance. Within the like for like sales performance, the core floor coverings business was flat 
whilst our beds business experienced a 13.5% decline, reflecting the difficulty of selling higher priced 
items such as beds in this market.  
  
Gross margin for the year of 66.6% compares to 66.2% in the prior year and 66.3% in the first half. 
This reflects the increased proportion of franchise related income to total revenue, principally as 
more corporate stores were franchised, and a small improvement in Flooring gross margin offset, to 
some extent, by a slight reduction in Beds gross margin and an increased proportion of Warehouse 
sales which operate at relatively low gross margin. 
 
Distribution costs include staff costs at the corporate stores and the reduction in comparison to the 
prior year principally arises from the reduction in the average number of those stores. 
 
Administrative expenses increased by 2.6%, principally reflecting increased rental costs due to the 
increase in overall store numbers in comparison to the prior year, and included  0.2m of exceptional 
costs related to certain loss making stores (2010:  0.4m). 
 
Profit before tax and exceptional items was  1.48m (2010:  1.46m). Basic earnings per share 
increased to 0.98p (2010: 0.84p). 
  
The balance sheet continues to be robust with net funds of  2.5m at the year end (2010:  2.1m). 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 0.5p per share (2010: 0.5p), which together 
with the interim dividend of 0.25p per share (2010: 0.25p) paid in January makes a total ordinary 
dividend of 0.75p per share for the year (2010: 0.75p). Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 2 December 2011 to those shareholders whose names 
are on the register on 4 November 2011. 
 
 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC   2 
 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Operations review 
 
At the year end, the Group had 86 United Carpets branded stores across its core areas of operation 
in Northern and Central England, up from 82 stores at the beginning of the financial year. Of these 
stores, 14 were corporate stores and the remainder were all franchises operating under the United 
Carpets' bespoke franchise model, which aims to combine the advantages of a multiple retailer with 
the entrepreneurial drive of an independent. 
 
During the period we focused on continuing to refine our offer so that it matched our customers' 
requirements during a period of economic and political change. At the heart of our offer to customers 
is delivering value for money alongside extensive ranges of good quality flooring and beds. Led by 
eye catching price points we continue to use advertising campaigns to reinforce these customer 
messages on value and service. The campaigns run throughout the year on regional television 
channels in Northern and Central England and are further supported by radio, print, and direct mail 
marketing. As a consequence within our target markets, United Carpets is a well known and trusted 
brand. 
 
A key focus during the period under review has been to further enhance the customer analysis 
available to franchisees. With the objective of better understanding customer visits and spending 
patterns, a new back office retail system has been introduced across the network and footfall 
counters have been installed in nearly every store. The new retail system,  InnStock', has shown 
immediate benefits in terms of capturing additional customer information as well as analysis of 
employee sales performance enabling franchisees to respond quickly to changes and opportunities. 
Footfall counters have also introduced a greater level of analysis of customer patterns, enabling 
stores to be individually judged by conversion rates which can then be compared across the Group. 
 
Our commitment to delivering superior customer service remains a key part of our strategy. To that 
end, we continued our programme of mystery shopper exercises to shape a more accurate picture 
of customer views and experiences that can then be used to further improve customer service 
levels. 
 
Franchising 
 
We began the year with 70 franchised stores. During the period 4 new franchised stores have opened 
and 1 has closed temporarily due to a fire. We have taken back 13 franchised stores into the corporate 
arm and 12 corporate stores have been franchised. As a result, at the end of the period, the Group had 
72 franchised stores.  
 
Since the period end we have re-located a franchised store in Mexborough, franchised a further 2 
corporate stores and converted 5 franchised stores into corporate stores.  The net result of these 
actions is that the number of franchised stores has decreased to 69 currently. 
 
Retail 
 
The majority of Group revenues are derived from the sale of floor coverings, predominantly carpet, 
laminate and vinyl flooring through franchised stores and the Group's own corporate stores. Similar 
to the overall performance of the Group, sales from this division were weaker throughout the first 
three quarters of the year, but started to recover in the last quarter.  
 
Having started the year with 12 corporate stores, 2 new corporate stores opened during the period in 
Manchester and Birmingham, 13 franchised stores were taken back into the corporate arm, 12 
corporate stores were franchised during the year and a corporate store in Chester was closed giving 
14 corporate stores at the period end. 
 
UNITED CARPETS GROUP PLC 
   3 
Chairman's statement (continued) 
 
 
Of the 14 corporate stores, 2 are considered to be core, to be retained to enable ongoing training 
and product development, with the Group seeking to franchise the remainder with quality 
candidates. Since the year end, we have successfully franchised 2 corporate stores, taken back 5 
franchised stores and closed a corporate store in South Emsall giving us a total of 16 corporate 
stores currently. 
 
Beds 
 
Following a difficult first half (against tough comparatives), Beds sales improved significantly in the 
second half to end the year with like for like sales down 13.5%; a disappointing performance for this 
division. The beds division with its higher average cost per item, tends to suffer more than flooring 
when there is a drop off in consumer confidence but we are confident that the division will recover as 
the wider market improves.  
 
Warehouse 
 
Our in-house cutting operation continues to expand with turnover increasing from  3.3m to  4.2m as 
franchisees increasingly appreciate the opportunity to deliver a quick, efficient service at a more 
attractive price point for customers and, as importantly, at an improved margin. 
  
People 
 
As always the Board is extremely grateful to everyone connected to the Company for their significant 
contributions over the year. The results achieved in the period are entirely due to the efforts of the 
team including our staff, franchisees and our supplier partners and we look forward to continuing to 
work together to develop the business. 
 
Outlook 
 
Looking ahead, we believe our increased ability to analyse transaction data through the use of 
improved systems and additional technology will enable us to increase store performance across the 
whole of our store network with a particular focus on measuring the effectiveness of our marketing 
and our ability to convert customer visits into sales. We will continue to refine the process of 
identifying good prospective franchisees for stores although new store openings are likely to be 
limited in the near term reflecting the current market environment. 
 
The performance of the business has been satisfactory and arguably quite resilient when compared 
to the wider retail market. Trading since the year end was initially very tough but has improved in 
more recent weeks with like for like sales just positive on Flooring and 14.8% down on Beds to give 
a total like for like sales decline of 1.3% for the first 15 weeks of the new financial year. Given the 
volatility seen in the year under review it is hard to extrapolate much from a short period of trading 
and we remain cautious about the remainder of the year in the absence of any significant 
improvement in consumer confidence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Cowgill 
Chairman 
 
 
6 September 2011