 United Utilities Group PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
04
18397.04 1/06/2011 Proof 10
Chairman's and chief executive officer's statement
Dr John McAdam
Chairman
Steve  Mogford
Chief executive officer
Overview 
In line with our strategy of focusing on core activities, United Utilities 
completed its non-regulated disposal programme in November 2010. 
The last four years have seen United Utilities reshape its portfolio 
from a group with a wide ranging set of activities and interests into a 
regulated UK water and wastewater business. 
 
We believe this enhanced focus on the regulated business will enable 
us to deliver further operational performance, customer service 
and efficiency improvements. We remain confident of delivering 
outperformance over the 2010-15 period, with significant financing 
outperformance already secured.
We have made good progress in the first year of the new five-year 
regulatory period and are pleased to report a sound set of financial 
results. We have continued to make high levels of investment in our 
water and wastewater assets providing further benefits for our 
shareholders, customers and the environment. 
Dividend
In line with our policy, the board is proposing a final dividend for the 
year ended 31 March 2011 of 20 pence per ordinary share. Together 
with the interim dividend of 10 pence, the total dividend relating to the 
year is 30 pence per ordinary share. The final dividend is expected to be 
paid to shareholders on 1 August 2011.
Looking ahead, we plan to continue with our policy of targeting real 
dividend growth of RPI+2 per cent per annum through to 2015. 
Operational performance
We continue to work hard to improve our operational performance and have 
made further progress during the year . We are pleased that more customers 
than ever before are telling us that they are satisfied or very satisfied with 
our service and we have achieved an overall customer satisfaction rate of 83 
per cent for 2010/11. In addition, this year we reduced by over three quarters 
the number of customer complaints assessed by the Consumer Council for 
Water . We know, however , that there is still more we can do in this area and it 
remains a key priority for us.
The commitment demonstrated by our employees during the unprecedented 
cold spell that we experienced in December 2010 was exemplary. This 
outstanding effort has resulted in us achieving Ofwat's leakage target for a 
fifth consecutive year . This is a remarkable achievement given the significant 
impact of the extreme weather on our leakage levels and we would like to 
take this opportunity to say thank you to all our employees and contractors 
who worked tirelessly to achieve this result.
In order to enhance further the visibility of our operational performance 
and help drive continuous improvements, we have reviewed our key 
performance indicators (KPIs) against which our stakeholders can 
assess our progress. As part of our aim to deliver best service to 
customers, we will continue to measure asset serviceability and 
customer satisfaction, and intend to introduce Ofwat's new service 
incentive mechanism (SIM) when fully implemented. Our drive to deliver 
lowest sustainable cost will be supported through our KPIs which cover 
relative efficiency and water leakage. We also have KPIs to measure 
environmental performance and corporate responsibility. 
Delivering our regulatory contract
We have made a good start to the new regulatory period and investment 
in our assets has continued at high levels, helping the business meet 
strict environmental standards and deliver an improved service for our 
customers. Regulatory capital expenditure, including infrastructure renewals 
expenditure, in our water and wastewater business amounted to over  
 600 million during the year . This substantial level of spend is consistent  
with our planned investment programme over the 2010-15 period, as we  
aim to deliver a smoother spend profile to optimise efficiency and reduce 
risk. We are pleased to have made good early progress in the delivery of 
outputs.
Corporate governance and corporate responsibility
We have consistently demonstrated a commitment to adopting 
the highest standards of corporate governance at board level and 
throughout the company. The board closely monitors new developments 
and requirements in this area.
In light of the group's strategic focus on its core water activities, we have 
simplified the board structure such that directors' membership of the United 
Utilities Group PLC and United Utilities Water PLC boards is now identical.
We continue to listen to the views of all our stakeholders and endeavour to 
develop, manage and operate in an environmentally sustainable and socially 
responsible manner . This includes a continued focus on water efficiency, the 
impact of climate change and responding to the needs of our customers.
 
In recognition of the company's continued focus on corporate 
responsibility, we retained our  World Class' rating, as measured by the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. unitedutilities.com
business review
05
18397.04 1/06/2011 Proof 10
United Utilities Group PLC
Chairman's and chief executive officer's statement
Health and safety is paramount and we believe that everybody in United 
Utilities has a part to play in maintaining a safe working environment. 
We acknowledge that our health and safety performance in 2010/11 
has been below our target and we will continue to focus on this area.
Regulatory developments
Privatisation of the water industry has generally been considered a 
success, with companies having invested over  90 billion to maintain 
and improve assets, customer service and the environment. Some 
20 years after privatisation, there are currently a number of reviews 
being undertaken to assess options for the future development of the 
industry. This includes a UK Government review of Ofwat and a Water 
White Paper is expected to be published later this year.
Whilst it is too early for us to know the outcome of the various reviews 
that are taking place, we will continue to work very closely with the 
key politicians and regulators to represent the best interests of our 
investors, customers, broader stakeholders and the industry as a whole.
People
The people in United Utilities are key to the delivery of the highest 
levels of service to our customers and we would like to thank them for 
their dedication and continued hard work. We believe that a committed 
and motivated workforce is central to delivering our vision to become 
the UK's leading water company and we remain fully focused on 
maintaining high levels of employee engagement.
On behalf of the board, we say thank you and farewell to Philip Green 
who has made a tremendous contribution to United Utilities during the 
last five years. Philip led the reshaping of the company's strategy and 
capital structure and he leaves United Utilities on a sound footing. We 
wish him all the best in his future challenges.
We would also like to thank Charlie Cornish for his contribution to the 
group over the past seven years, most recently as managing director, 
Utility Solutions. Charlie left the group as we completed the non-
regulated disposal programme and we wish him well in his new role as 
chief executive of Manchester Airport Group.
We welcome Russ Houlden who joined us in October from T elecom New 
Zealand as chief financial officer. His combination of experience within 
finance and treasury will prove invaluable to the company, along with 
his extensive experience of operating in a regulatory environment and 
managing large capital expenditure programmes.
Environment
Key to the group's strategic objectives is the goal to operate in a more 
sustainable manner. Given our long life assets, we take a long-term view 
of our operations. In line with requirements under the Climate Change 
Act 2008, in January 2011, we published our response to the Secretary 
of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs detailing the work 
we are already undertaking and the plans we are putting into place to 
adapt to the challenge of climate change. We continue to look at ways 
of reducing demand for water to help ensure the continuity of water 
supplies for our customers.
We recently completed the construction of our West East Link water 
pipeline, which will enable us to transport water over 55 kilometres 
in either direction between Merseyside and Greater Manchester. This 
is one of the largest projects of its kind ever undertaken and upon 
commissioning will improve further our ability to manage water supply 
across our region and therefore our resilience to climate change.
Customers
During 2010/11 our household customers have benefited from an 
average real reduction in their water bills of 4.3 per cent, which equates 
to around  16 per customer per annum. Despite this reduction in 
average customer bills, we have continued to invest heavily in our 
assets in order to ensure that we can continue to provide our customers 
with high quality drinking water to meet all their daily needs and 
environmentally responsible wastewater collection and treatment. 
Our water and wastewater service currently costs households 
approximately  1 per day on average. We believe this continues to 
represent excellent value for money for our customers. We recognise 
that we need to maintain the affordability of customer bills, in what 
continues to be a tough economic environment, and we continue to fund 
our charitable trust, providing  5 million per year to help customers who 
are struggling to pay their water bills.
Outlook
We believe that, with the continued focus on the core regulated 
activities, we are well positioned to meet the challenges of the current 
regulatory period and beyond, with the aim of delivering benefits for all 
of our stakeholders. The board is encouraged by the progress we have 
made in the first year of the new regulatory period and is confident we 
can build on this as we progress through the remainder of the period. We 
hope our shareholders, employees and customers will continue to share 
in United Utilities' success.
 
Dr John McAdam Steve Mogford
Chairman Chief executive officer