 6
UTV Media plc
Report and Accounts 2009
Introduction
The strong underlying performance of your company in the 
severest recession in a generation is evident in this report. 
Your company responded to the unprecedented downturn in 
advertising revenue across the media sector by disposing of loss 
making activities, restructuring various parts of the business, 
imposing a general pay freeze and further tightening cost control. 
This delivered group operating profit of  23.7m (2008:  28.3m) 
Strong cash flow and strict working capital management also 
proved very effective, with net debt being substantially reduced 
by  19.1m to  88.5m (2008:  107.6m). Overall, and in the context 
of the most challenging market conditions we have experienced, 
your company emerged from 2009 with pre-tax profits before 
exceptional items from continuing operations of  18.1m (2008: 
 20.7m).
Results from continuing operations
Group revenue, from continuing operations, was  112.1m (2008: 
 119.7m). Within this, the effect of acquisitions boosted turnover 
by  3.9m, while foreign exchange movements added  2.2m.
Continuing group operating profit, including associates, before 
exceptional items, was  24.0m (2008:  28.6m), with radio 
operating profit of  16.7m (2008:  18.9m) accounting for 70% 
of the total. Television operating profit declined to  5.3m (2008: 
 7.7m) and new media operating profit was maintained at  2.0m. 
Net interest and finance charges were significantly lower at 
 5.8m (2008:  8.1m), and we incurred a small loss on foreign 
exchange of  0.1m (2008: Gain  0.3m). Pre-tax exceptional costs 
on continuing operations of  0.6m (2008:  4.5m) comprised 
restructuring costs in GB radio and television and our share of 
business closure costs in radio Ireland. 
Dividend
Your Board has reviewed dividend policy in light of changed 
credit conditions and the economic downturn. A key priority is 
to realign the group financial structure with new market norms 
and, consequently, to further reduce net debt. We recommend, 
therefore, a dividend of 2.00p (2008: 5.30p) for the year, which 
would allow most of the cash flow generated from operations to 
be utilised in paying down borrowings. The dividend will be paid 
on 15 July 2010 to all shareholders on the Register at the close of 
business on 28 May 2010.
Radio
Revenue from continuing radio operations was  68.0m (2008: 
 70.2m), representing more than 60% of group turnover. Of that 
amount,  43.2m (2008:  45.3m) was generated in our GB Radio 
division and  24.8m (2008:  24.9m) was derived from our Irish 
radio operations.
With the continued deterioration of the advertising markets, we 
implemented a further cost reduction plan which resulted in 
some redundancies and a reappraisal of all expenditure. We also 
adopted a robust approach to radio stations which could not be 
brought to profitability within a reasonable timeframe and as a 
result we disposed of Valleys Radio and Central Radio in our GB 
Radio division. By contrast, we saw an opportunity to generate 
profits within such a timeframe and to complement our already 
strong sports-led offering to advertisers by acquiring the loss-
making Sport magazine for a nominal sum. This publication was 
quickly integrated into our existing sales operation, its cost base 
was significantly reduced and revenue of  1.8m was generated 
during the period. As we forecast in our business plan for the 
magazine, it made a small loss in the period of  0.3m. Overall, 
our GB Radio division delivered operating profit of  9.4m (2008: 
 10.6m). On a like for like basis, advertising revenue from our GB 
radio division was down by 8%. 
Market conditions were also difficult in the Irish radio market. 
Revenue of  24.8m was maintained with the favourable impact of 
foreign exchange movements accounting for  2.2m and the full 
year effect of the acquisition of FM104 in April 2008, accounting 
for an additional  1.9m of revenue. Excluding these elements, 
Irish radio advertising revenue was down by 16% on a like for like 
basis. Cost reduction was also a key feature of our radio business 
in Ireland, mitigating the revenue downturn and contributing to an 
operating profit of  7.0m (2008:  8.0m).
UTV Board of Directors
Chairman's Statement
Your company responded to 
the unprecedented downturn 
in advertising revenue across 
the media sector by disposing 
of loss making activities, 
restructuring various parts 
of the business, imposing a 
general pay freeze and further 
tightening cost control.  UTV Media plc
Report and Accounts 2009 7
Television
Conditions in the television market were difficult with turnover 
for this division down by  5.5m to  32.5m (2008:  38.0m). 
The Dublin market place was particularly challenging with our 
television advertising revenue from there falling 33%. Again, 
a focus on cost control mitigated much of this downturn, but 
television operating profit still dropped by  2.4m to  5.3m (2008: 
 7.7m).
New Media
Our new media division was not immune to the effects of the 
recession but delivered a very satisfactory outcome. The higher 
margin business of web development and business internet 
services helped to offset some of the competitive pricing issues 
in broadband and telephony. Both turnover and operating profit 
were maintained at  11.5m and  2.0m respectively.
Cost reduction programme
I referred in last year's Report to the cost-cutting plan which we 
were implementing to counter the impact of the recession. This 
was executed across the group in 2009 and in total we achieved 
cost savings of over  6.0m in the year under review. 
Financing
Despite reduced profits, we achieved debt reduction of  19.1m 
(18%) during the year. We also confidently managed tightening 
debt covenants, although operational flexibility was sometimes 
constrained by this. Our budgets indicate further debt reduction 
in 2010 and continuing compliance with tighter covenants. 
However, to ensure optimal operational flexibility we have agreed 
terms with our banks for the continuation of covenants at current 
levels for 2010 and thereafter on the original reducing basis, 
deferred by one year. This is in return for a modest increase 
in interest margin up to a maximum of 2.85%, ratcheting 
downwards, which your Board believes is an attractive rate in 
the current market.
Prospects
The macroeconomic environment continues to be of concern 
and recovery may be fragile. Uncertainty in the economy impacts 
negatively on advertisers' expenditure commitments and hence, 
the advertising market remains very short term.
However, trading in the first few weeks of 2010 has been 
more encouraging with the UK television market, in particular, 
showing some signs of improvement. We have shared in this 
improvement, but continuing weakness in the Irish market has 
affected the overall performance of our television advertising 
revenue which, nevertheless, is expected to be up by 2% in the 
first four months. Softer comparatives in the second and third 
quarter, combined with the positive impact of the World Cup 
should provide some momentum in the next six months, though 
visibility on this is limited.
Greater confidence can be attached to revenue forecasts for 
talkSPORT in a World Cup year. Already, talkSPORT appears to 
be gaining some advertising and sponsorship traction and in the 
first four months of 2010 is expected to achieve revenue growth 
of 16%. talkSPORT was also successful recently in winning two 
exclusive Premier League broadcast rights packages and these, 
coupled with the World Cup and record audience figures, should 
ensure a stronger revenue performance in the year ahead.
The revenue decline in our local radio stations in Great Britain 
slowed considerably in the first few weeks of 2010, and the 
first four months is expected to be down by 3%. Again, softer 
comparatives and any improvement in the wider economy should 
prove to be positive for our stations during the rest of the year. 
Revenue from Sport magazine is expected to have doubled in 
the first four months and the publication is now achieving profit 
targets. Overall, revenue in our GB radio division is forecast to be 
up by 6% on a like for like basis in the first few months of 2010.
Our Irish radio division experienced a slower rate of decline in 
turnover in the early weeks of 2010 and is expected to record a 
revenue reduction of 6% in the first four months. 
Revenue in our new media division has held up reasonably well 
in the first four months and is trading broadly in line with the 
previous year.
People
The severity of the recession has put enormous pressures on 
management and staff across the group. Redundancies, pay 
freezes and general cost cutting have been painful and it is to 
the credit of all concerned that the group has weathered the 
economic storm so well. I wish to thank the Board, management 
and staff for their continuing efforts to maintain the success of 
the company. 
John B McGuckian
Chairman
13 April 2010
Chairman's Statement
I referred in last year's Report to the cost-
cutting plan which we were implementing to 
counter the impact of the recession. This was 
executed across the group in 2009 and in total 
we achieved cost savings of over  6.0m in the 
year under review. 