 Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
4
The Listing of Vedanta Resources plc on the
London Stock Exchange in December last year
was a watershed for the Group. Thanks to 
the growing awareness among international
investors of the potential of the Indian
economy, and thanks equally to the strong
growth prospects of the Group, we were 
able to raise US$825 million, net of expenses. 
This was an amount we judged sufficient 
to complete the capital programmes at our
existing operations, and to bring our two new
mega-projects to full production. That outcome
constituted the second largest listing on the
London Stock Exchange in 2003 and the first
primary listing there of an Indian company, 
a tribute to the initiative of Anil Agarwal in
building the Group.
At the time of the Listing, we committed ourselves 
to a four-pillar strategy which, if successfully
implemented, will give the Group a growth profile
unrivalled in our industry. Sound progress has been
made since then and so far there have been no
material set-backs. 
The first pillar is to achieve OPTIMUM OPERATING
EFFICIENCY at our existing operations. Committed
capital expenditure, totalling around US$400 million,
will enable us to modernise, de-bottleneck and expand
the output of our plants, with beneficial impact on 
our unit costs. Progress this past year was particularly
evident at our zinc operation, HZL, where costs have
come down significantly, particularly helped by control
of energy input costs. The new copper smelter at
Tuticorin is now mechanically complete after some
disappointing delays. The new acid and power plants
are in use, and full start up will occur as soon as the
authorities issue the final permits. We expect to receive
these in a few weeks.
The second pillar of our strategy is to COMPLETE
OUR TWO MEGA-PROJECTS, the 250,000 tpa
Korba aluminium smelter at a capital cost of US$900
million, and the 1 million tpa Orissa alumina refinery
(capital cost US$800 million). First metal output 
at Korba is planned for March 2006; successfully
achieved, this will constitute a rapid construction
programme by international standards. At Orissa,
production is scheduled to commence by March
2007. Our studies suggest that the bauxite resources
and regional potential could sustain substantially
larger outputs in the years ahead. Good progress is
being made on both projects. The civil engineering
works at Korba were completed ahead of the
monsoon and some 120 of the 288 pots were in
place by the end of May 2004. At Orissa, the designs
and plans are well developed and civil engineering
work has begun on the site and the surrounding
facilities. The project involves some 40 engineering
packages and orders for around half of these have
already been placed. Our project managers have
embraced the challenges of delivering these projects
on time and within budget, and remain confident of
successful delivery. We are considering the possibility
of introducing a partner into the Orissa project, 
to join us in developing the substantial regional
potential to its full capacity in the decades ahead.
The third pillar of our strategy is to release the 
value trapped within the Group structure, by
CONSOLIDATING OWNERSHIP. Here, satisfactory
progress has been achieved in the six months since
Listing. We have made two purchases of Sterlite
shares. The first of 4.98% in January 2004 for 
US$58 million and then 2.4% in April 2004 for
US$21.4 million and we recently announced terms
for a US$440 million rights issue in Sterlite, all of
which are likely to increase our holding. Studies are
currently under way to establish how further
consolidation might best be achieved. 
Another opportunity open to us is our option to
acquire the Government's 49% holding in BALCO. 
A valuer is to be appointed by the Government and
the Board will then be in a position to report back to
shareholders.
Increased ownership of assets with growing profits
is a happy outcome. As detailed in the Financial
Review which appears on pages 16 to 21,
consolidated Group operating profit for the year
ended 31 March 2004 was US$237 million, up
107% from US$115 million in the previous year.
Our EBITDA margin has climbed from 23% to 25%,
and our Return on Capital Employed has reached
16.8% (14.4% in 2003). As our capital projects are
completed - effectively tripling our pre-Listing capital
base - and start contributing to Group cash flows,
the financial benefits to our shareholders should be
material. On the basis of this year's results and future
prospects, and in keeping with the announced
progressive dividend policy, the Directors are
recommending a dividend of 5.5 US cents per share,
representing a dividend for the four months from
Listing to the end of the financial year equivalent to
16.5 US cents for the full year. This dividend reflects
our confidence in the cash flows and stability of the
Group, and translates to a yield of 3.16% at current
market prices.
The fourth and final pillar of our strategy is to seek
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES
where we believe we have the necessary skills 
to add value. We remain preferred bidder for 
Chairman's Statement
Brian Gilbertson Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
5
Konkola Copper Mines, which was indicated as a
possible investment in our Listing Particulars. We 
are in the final stages of evaluating an acquisition
structure that should bring substantial benefits to 
our shareholders.
The currently planned investment programme will be
funded from the IPO proceeds, from the Free Cash
Flow and an increase in debt, which is covered by
our balance sheet. We expect our gearing to remain
at prudent levels, rising towards 40% during the
investment phase.
Shortly after the year end the general election in
India brought a new coalition Government into
power. There was much market uncertainty in the
immediate aftermath of that unexpected change.
Initial statements by the incoming Government 
on its privatisation policy have not alleviated investor
concerns and we hope for greater clarity in the
months ahead. Although Vedanta's growth targets
over the next few years will be determined almost
entirely by its already committed projects, in the
longer term we would welcome further investment
opportunities, including privatisations, in an
economy that has such potential.
We should also recognise that the outcome reflects 
a well-functioning democratic process in what is the
world's second most populous nation, and brings 
to power a Government committed to improved
economic circumstances for the vast numbers that
are poor. Such improvement can only come from
growth in the overall economy; and that in turn 
will fuel demand for Vedanta's commodities -
aluminium, copper and zinc - without which growth
in a modern economy is not possible. 
In the light of our progress since Listing, the
trajectory of the Vedanta share price has been most
disappointing. Issued at  3.90, the shares have 
since traded well below that level. In my judgement,
Vedanta is today a very undervalued share, and 
this situation will inevitably correct itself as we
methodically deliver the key results of our corporate
strategy over the next two years.
Our Listing carries with it the commitment to 
the highest standards of corporate governance.
Responsibility for delivering on this commitment
rests in the first instance with the Board of Directors.
The one week delay in reporting our results was
therefore most disappointing to the Board, as it 
was to shareholders. We have undertaken to review
our reporting structures and authorities to prevent
any recurrence. 
On 22 May 2004, Mr P Chidambaram resigned from
the Board, following his appointment as Finance
Minister in the new Indian Government. I would like
to thank him for his contribution and I am sure that he
will play a pivotal role in the continuing development
of India. I am very pleased to welcome as new
Directors, Mr Naresh Chandra (who has had a
distinguished career in Government in India, with
much recent experience in governance matters) and
Mr Jean-Pierre Rodier (the successful former Chairman
and Chief Executive of Pechiney, a leading aluminium
producer, who also has wide previous experience in
copper and zinc). In preparation for Listing we
appointed Mr Peter Sydney-Smith as Finance Director,
formerly Finance Director of BPB. 
These Directors will strengthen and complement 
the skills and experience of the Board, and bring
sound judgement to our future deliberations. 
The appointment of these Directors gave us the
opportunity to further strengthen the Board
Committees and bring our Board structures in line
with the new Combined Code. This reaffirmed our
commitment to best practice corporate governance.
I commend the Vedanta executive team, and our
employees throughout the Group, for the sound
progress achieved since Listing. Their talents and
commitment will be the critical ingredients in
delivering on the ambitious targets that are set 
for the year ahead.
Brian Gilbertson
Chairman
18 June 2004
Chairman's Statement continued
At the time of Listing 
we committed ourselves 
to a four-pillar strategy
which, if successfully
implemented, will give
Vedanta a growth profile
unrivalled in our industry. Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
6
Creating a world-class metals 
and mining group
Our goal is to generate strong financial returns and
create a world-class metals and mining group. 
Our strategy is to:
1
3
2
4
Finance greenfield growth: 
Two large greenfield projects, the 250,000 tpa GAMI-based aluminium smelter at
the Korba complex and the proposed 1.0 million tpa alumina refinery in Orissa,
offer attractive economics and future growth; 
Consolidate the Group structure: 
Vedanta will seek to increase its direct ownership in the underlying Businesses; and
Optimise the performance of the existing assets: 
Vedanta's plans for its Businesses will de-bottleneck plants, improve efficiency,
expand output and drive down unit costs. Major projects include a new power
plant and zinc smelter at Chanderiya, expansion of the Rampura Agucha zinc mine
and the expansion of the Tuticorin copper smelter;
Leverage established skills: 
Vedanta will seek further growth opportunities in India, including the Government's
privatisation programmes and also outside its traditional Indian base, in operations
where its proven transactional, operating and turnaround skills can provide a
competitive advantage. Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
7
A growth profile unrivalled
in our industry...