  08 Vedanta Resources plc  Annual  Report  2010
Chairman's Statement
cash  flow  has  positioned  us  well  to  deliver  in  these  unprecedented  markets.  This  has  enabled  us  to  continue  to  grow  production  and  invest  in  our  industry-leading  growth  programme.  With  this  background,  I  am  delighted  that  Vedanta  is  once  again  proposing  an  increase  in  its  final  dividend  to  27 .5  US  cents  per  share,  a  10%  increase  compared  to  FY  2009.  Financial Performance
We  delivered  strong  results  in  2010,  which  once  again  benefited  from  our  low  cost  position,  diversified  revenues  and  record  production  growth  across  all  our  businesses.  Revenues  rose  by  21%  to  US$7 .9  billion  and  EBITDA  rose  by  42%  to  US$2.3  billion  during  the  year.  Basic  earnings  per  share  increased  187%  to  US$2.20.  We  generated  a  healthy  US$1.8  billion  of  free  cash  flow,  representing  79%  of  EBITDA.  Our  balance  sheet  and  liquidity  remains  strong.  During  the  year  we  raised  US$4.2  billion  of  long-term  capital  through  a  mix  of  debt  and  equity  to  refinance  debt  maturities  and  for  general  corporate  purposes.  Gearing  as  at  31  March  2010  was  7 .5%,  net  debt  was  US$0.9  billion  and  our  Group  cash  position,  including  liquid  investments,  was  US$7 .2  billion.  We  remain  committed  to  retaining  investment  grade  credit  metrics.
Organic Growth and Operational 
Performance
FY  2010  was  an  outstanding  year.  Production  grew  across  all  commodities,  costs  were  kept  under  control,  and  we  made  excellent  progress  with  our  organic  growth  programme.
During  the  year  we  spent  US$3.5  billion  on  our  organic  expansion  programme.  In  Q4  Hindustan  Zinc  commissioned  the  1  mtpa  zinc  concentrator  and  210  ktpa  zinc  smelter,  becoming  the  largest  integrated  producer  of  zinc  in  the  world  with  capacity  of  1.064  The  large  and  coordinated  stimulus  from  governments  globally  has  secured  greater  stability  in  financial  markets  and  a  return  to  economic  growth.  Commodity  prices  and  industrial  demand  have  recovered  and  we  enter  the  2011  financial  year  with  much  greater  optimism  to  when  we  entered  2010.
Our  structurally  low  cost  position  across  commodities,  excellent  liquidity  and  strong  I  am  delighted  to  report  another  excellent  set  of  results  in  a  challenging  year  for  our  industry  and  the  global  economy.  The    2010  financial  year  began  with  developed  markets  in  recession  and  commodity  prices  and  industrial  demand  at  multi-year  lows.  Emerging  markets  -  especially  India  and  China  -  proved  more  resilient  to  the  economic  downturn,  with  continued  economic  and  metals  consumption  growth.  July 2009
Sterlite follow on ADR 
- raised US$1.1 billion
June 2009
Sesa Goa acquires Dempo 
Group's Goa mining assets
Our Year in Review
September 2009
Revival of 1980 MW 
IPP at Talwandi Sabo
  We  delivered  strong  results  in  2010,  which    once  again  benefited  from  our  low  cost    position,  diversified  revenues  and    record  production  growth  across    all  our  businesses' .
Vedanta_21000250-1_PLC_AR-2k9-2k10_4 Col Text.indd   8 14/06/10   10:37 PM Vedanta Resources plc  Annual  Report  2010  09 
www.vedantaresources.com
March 2010
Commissioned 210 ktpa  
zinc smelter and 1mtpa 
concentrator
Completed KDMP mid  
shaft loading at KCM 
Company Overview
mtpa.  KCM  achieved  a  significant  milestone  by  commissioning  the  mid-shaft  loading  station  ( MSL ')  in  March  2010.  The  MSL  commissioning  is  a  significant  milestone  towards  KDMP  expansion  and  will  result  in  an  increase  in  the  hoisting  capacity  of  the  mine.  At  Jharsuguda,  production  ramp  up  and  commissioning  of  the  balance  pots  of  the  500  ktpa  aluminium  smelter  is  progressing  well.  We  are  also  making  good  progress  at  our  other  aluminium  projects.
We  also  announced  a  number  of  additional  projects  to  increase  capacity  across  our  businesses.  A  doubling  of  our  copper  custom  smelting  capacity  at  T uticorin  to  800  ktpa  with  associated  160  MW  power  plant  will  further  reduce  our  costs  and  put  us  amongst  the  lowest  quartile  cost  custom  smelters  in  the  world.  We  revived  the  1,980  MW  thermal  power  plant  project  at  T alwandi  Sabo  in  the  state  of  Punjab  to  take  advantage  of  the  exciting  opportunities  offered  by  the  power  sector  in  India.  Earlier  in  the  year  we  also  announced  iron  ore  mine  production  expansion  to  50  mtpa,  placing  us  on  course  to  become  one  of  the  top  five  iron  ore  producers  in  the  world.  We  are  on  track  to  increase  production  progressively  over  next  two  to  three  years  through  a  combination  of  increased  mining  and  logistics  capacity  enhancement  initiatives.  Additionally  we  initiated  our  375  ktpa  pig  iron  expansion  project.
The  tragic  collapse  of  a  power  plant  chimney  that  was  under  construction  at  BALCO  through  our  subcontractor  SEPCO  was    an  unfortunate  incident  and  investigations  have  revealed  this  was  caused  by  severe  thunderstorms  and  lightning.  We  have  taken  immediate  steps  to  compensate  and  support  the  affected  families,  and  strengthened  monitoring  and  systems  at  our  project  sites  to  ensure  this  does  not  happen  in  the  future.
Acquisitions
During  the  year  we  expanded  and  consolidated  our  Iron  Ore  business  by  acquiring  VS  Dempo  ( VSD'),  one  of  the  largest  exporters  of  iron  ore  in  Goa.  VSD's  Goa  mining  assets  include  processing  plants,  barges,  jetties,  transhippers  and  loading  capacities  at  Mormugoa  port.  Our  results  have  benefited  in  terms  of  record  iron  ore  production  and  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  we  are  also  benefiting  from  synergies  at  Sesa  Goa.
Dividend and Share Buyback
We  remain  committed  to  our  progressive  dividend  policy.  The  Board  has  recommended  a  final  dividend  of  27 .5  US  cents  per  share,    an  increase  of  10%  which  will  be  paid  on    4  August  2010  to  shareholders  on  the  register  at  9  July  2010.  This  takes  the  total  dividend  for  the  year  to  45  US  cents  per  share,  an  increase  of  8.4%.
We  continue  to  look  for  opportunities  to  enhance  shareholder  value  by  buying  back  shares  and  increasing  our  stake  in  key  subsidiaries  at  attractive  prices.  We  spent  US$549  million  in  buying  back  shares  of  Vedanta  and  our  subsidiaries,  invested  a  further  US$111  million  in  preference  shares  of  a  subsidiary  and  increased  Vedanta's  buyback  programme  from  US$350  million  to  US$825  million  during  the  year.  Sustainability
Vedanta  has  a  long  standing  commitment    to  sustainable  development,  and  we  believe  that  business  today  has  greater  responsibility  than  ever  before  to  enhance  society's  overall  well  being.  We  continue  to  proactively  foresee  social  and  environmental  factors    that  will  be  influencing  our  businesses  in  the  long-term  and  prepare  for  those  changes  now,  so  that  we  can  emerge  as  a  more  effective  and  stronger  company.  We  have  a  track  record  of  exceeding  our  own  performance  year  on  year  in  energy  and  water  usage,  recycling  and  reuse  of  waste  innovatively,  and  engaging  and  working  with  communities  towards  building  a  sustainable  business.  Ensuring  the  safety  of  all  our  employees  is  a  key  priority  for  us,  and  the  Board  remains  focused  on  improving  the  performance  in  this  crucial  area.  We  have  also  remained  focused  on  actively  engaging  with  our  key  stakeholders,  enhancing  our  reporting  and  increasing  transparency.    As  we  expand  our  footprint  globally,  we  will  continue  to  build  on  our  strong  legacy  in  the  sustainability  space.  Outlook
The  recovery  in  demand  and  commodity  prices  appears  well-founded  and  the  medium-  and  long-term  outlook  for  our  commodities  remains  strong.  We  are  well  placed  to  benefit  from  a  sustained  recovery  given  our  structurally  low  cost  position,  presence  in  growing  economies  and  the  organic  growth  programme.  Our  priorities  are  focused  on  delivering  a  significant  increase  in  capacity  across  our  businesses  and  strengthening  our  low  cost  position.  We  are  both  optimistic  and  well  placed  for  the  future.  Finally  on  behalf  of  the  Board  I  would  like  to  thank  our  over  30,000  employees  who  have  contributed  to  the  excellent  performance  during  the  year.  Our  unrivalled  growth  and  delivery  at  benchmark  standards  will  help  us  maintain  sustainable  growth  and  maximise  shareholder  value.
Anil Agarwal
Chairman
5  May  2010
November 2009
Announced Iron 
Ore expansion to 
50 mtpa
October 2009
Announced 400 ktpa copper 
expansion with 160 MW CPP 
at Tuticorin
Vedanta_21000250-1_PLC_AR-2k9-2k10_4 Col Text.indd   9 14/06/10   10:37 PM