  
VERONA PHARMA PLC 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S JOINT STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
2011 has been another important and busy year for Verona Pharma. The Company made further good 
progress with its lead drug project, RPL554, and demonstrated clinical efficacy with its second project, the 
novel anti-cough drug, VRP700. Progress was also made with its NAIPs (novel anti-inflammatory 
polysaccharides) programme. The Company continued to pursue every opportunity to license out RPL554 to 
an appropriate pharmaceutical partner. The Board continued to maintain a firm control over the Company's 
finances and ensure the operation of a proven financial model for drug discovery that enables resources to 
be applied to maximum effect for the discovery and development of new drugs. 
 
RPL554 
 
During 2011, the Company continued to add valuable clinical data to its lead project, RPL554, which is 
being developed for the treatment of COPD, asthma and other diseases of the respiratory tract. 
  
RPL554, belongs to a class of drugs known as a dual phosphodiesterase (PDE) 3/4 inhibitor. It is unique in 
that it could provide combined prolonged bronchodilation and anti-inflammatory effects in one molecule. 
Both effects are essential for sufferers of respiratory diseases, and there is currently no other drug that 
provides both effects in a single molecule. In addition, none of the existing asthma drug therapies are ideal 
as many have limitations with respect to their effectiveness, dose-limiting side effects and, in some cases, 
concerns over long term use. In terms of current drugs for COPD, there is room for substantial improvement 
and a drug with combined bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory actions would be a significant step forward 
in the treatment of this progressive and pernicious disease.  
 
The Company successfully completed three further clinical trials with RPL554 during the year, 
demonstrating the effectiveness of this drug as a bronchodilator in both patients with asthma, and in those 
with mild to moderate COPD. One of the trials in subjects with mild to moderate asthma also demonstrated 
that the bronchodilator effect obtained with RPL554 was maintained over a 6 day treatment period with 
once daily dosing. In that trial, and other trials, RPL554 continues to provide excellent bronchodilator 
activity in mild asthmatics without any major untoward side effects, including gastrointestinal disturbances 
which are commonly encountered with other PDE4 inhibitors. The clinical trials in mild asthmatics were 
conducted in Leiden, The Netherlands, at the Centre for Human Drug Research (CHDR). The trial in 
patients with COPD was conducted at the University Tor Vergata in Rome, Italy. These further positive 
clinical trials strengthen the RPL554 clinical data package.  
 
VRP700 
 
During 2011, the Company successfully completed a first clinical proof of concept study at the University of 
Florence, Italy for its cough drug, VRP700. VRP700 is a potential first-in-class drug which suppresses the 
cough initiating signals in nerve endings located in the air passages and lungs. Currently, the treatment of 
cough is directed at the underlying illness e.g. a cold, sinusitis. Many patients self-medicate with over-the-
counter cough and cold medicines and only receive mild relief. However, for more severe cases, where 
patients may cough up to 60-80 times an hour, there are no truly safe (non-morphine-based) or effective 
treatments.  
 
The small clinical study completed at the University of Florence produced exciting results in that VRP700 
markedly reduced coughing in a group of patients with severe, persistent cough. When administered by 
nebuliser, the drug was highly effective without any untoward side effects.  
 
 
 
 
4
48435_Verona Pharma Report_.  01/05/2012  17:08  Page 4  
VERONA PHARMA PLC 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S JOINT STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 
 
 
NAIPs 
 
The Company has continued to obtain and evaluate NAIPs from various sources with the intent of 
identifying potential clinical candidates for development as an anti-inflammatory drug. The NAIPs 
programme was derived from studies of heparin, which has been shown to be an anti-inflammatory drug in a 
range of diseases, but cannot be widely used since its anti-coagulant effect is an unwanted side effect. 
Through its collaborations with Glycores SpA and Glycomar Ltd, the Company has access to a range of 
NAIPs without anti-coagulant effects that it is evaluating as potential drug treatments for common chronic 
inflammatory conditions such as asthma and hay fever. Progress of the NAIPs programme has been limited 
as the Company has focused its resources on advancing the RPL554 and VRP700 programmes.   
 
FINANCIALS 
 
The loss for the current year decreased by 9% or  0.17m to  1.72m (2010:  1.89m).  
 
Total research and development expenditure, which was expensed as incurred, was  0.94m (2010:  1.15m). 
The decrease in research and development expenditure was due to a decrease in expenditures for the 
RPL554 programme by  0.22m to  0.75m (2010:  0.97m). The decrease in expenditures for the RPL554 
programme is primarily due to: (a) a reduction in the scope of development of the RPL554 series during 
2011; and (b) certain clinical trial related costs such as manufacture of drug batch and clinical trial protocol 
design were incurred in 2010, but the trials were actually carried out in 2011. The Company also received a 
research and development tax credit of  0.12m in the year which is included under taxation.  
 
The main area of expenditure in 2011 has been on the Phase II trial to test the duration of bronchodilator 
action with daily doses of RPL554, given over a period of 6 days, in patients with mild asthma. The Phase 
I/II clinical trial of RPL554 to evaluate the safety and bronchodilator effectiveness of higher doses of 
RPL554 in patients with mild asthma was commenced in 2010 and completed in February 2011. A majority 
of the cost (approximately 80%) was incurred in 2010 with the balance being incurred in 2011.  
 
Administrative expenses for the year were  0.90m (2010:  0.75m). The increase of  0.15m over the 
previous period was primarily due to an increase in share based payment charge of  0.14m as a result of 
extending the expiry date of 10 million directors' options.  
 
As at 31 December 2011, the Company had approximately  2.5 million in cash and cash equivalents.  
 
OUTLOOK 
 
All current evidence indicates that RPL554 has the potential to be an important new respiratory drug that 
could capture a significant market share in terms of utility in the treatment of asthma and COPD. The 
Company recently announced that it has contracted the Medicines Evaluation Unit (MEU) of the University 
of Manchester, UK to carry out a trial to demonstrate anti-inflammatory effects of RPL554 relevant to the 
treatment of COPD. This trial is expected to complete the profile of RPL554 as a new class of drug with 
dual bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory actions in a single molecule - a first-in-class in the treatment of 
respiratory disease, and a major boost for patients. The trial is planned to commence shortly and the 
preliminary results from the trial are expected in Q4 2012. In the meantime, Verona Pharma continues to 
seek the most appropriate partner to develop RPL554 into a marketed medicine. Whilst the global economic 
conditions and the state of flux of the pharmaceutical industry are impacting the licensing market, the 
Company is optimistic that it will find a suitable partner to ensure that RPL554 takes its rightful place in the 
treatment of one or more of the most common chronic respiratory diseases. The notable success of the 
clinical demonstration of VRP700 in the treatment of severe, intractable cough provides another significant 
opportunity for the Company. In the first place we plan to expand on our original clinical observations so as  
5
48435_Verona Pharma Report_.  01/05/2012  17:08  Page 5  
VERONA PHARMA PLC 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S JOINT STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 
 
 
to define the drug's utility and at the same time fully explore these unique actions so as to ensure the fullest 
commercial protection. A larger multi-centre trial has been planned for VRP700 in patients with intractable 
cough in 2012 which will enable the Company to enhance the value of this project.  
 
While our current focus is on RPL554 and VRP700, we continue to explore other areas for potential new 
drugs in the area of respiratory medicine. Thus we plan to further develop our NAIPs project and keep a 
 weather eye' open for new and unique opportunities for potential drugs for use in the respiratory field.  
 
Verona Pharma will continue to maintain a low cash burn rate, which is possible due to its minimized cost 
base. The Company is very positive about its progress to date and looks forward to updating the market on 
further developments in due course.  
 
We would like to thank our staff, consultants, advisors and collaborators for all of their dedicated effort in 
the past year and for sharing our mission to research, discover and develop drugs of benefit to those millions 
of sufferers from asthma, allergic rhinitis and other respiratory diseases. We also wish to express the most 
sincere gratitude to our shareholders for their continuing support of our endeavours. 
 
PERSONAL NOTE FROM MICHAEL WALKER 
 
On a personal footnote, it is time for me to hand over the leadership of Verona Pharma. After a thorough 
search and careful consideration, the Board has appointed Dr. Jan-Anders Karlsson as the Company's new 
CEO, with effect from 1
st
 of June 2012.  Dr Karlsson has considerable scientific and commercial experience 
in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector and has participated in the journey of a number of drug 
projects from discovery through to clinical development and commercialisation.  He has held senior 
positions within both big and small pharma, and until recently was the CEO at S*Bio, a Singapore and US 
based biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of novel small molecule anti-
cancer drugs.  It is a pleasure to welcome Dr Karlsson. I am confident that I am leaving the Company in 
very capable hands.  
 
I am proud of what Verona Pharma has achieved during my time as CEO.  It has been very exciting and 
very successful in terms of the drug discoveries we have been able to make.  There are not many small 
biotech companies who have spent so little, and achieved so much in terms of successful clinical trials.  I 
wish to thank every shareholder, plus all others associated with Verona Pharma, whether as employee, 
consultant, advisor or collaborator, for all of their effort and support in helping the Company get this far. I 
sincerely believe that Verona Pharma will receive the rewards that it richly deserves.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
Professor Clive P. Page    Professor Michael J. A. Walker  
Chairman   Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
48435_Verona Pharma Report_.  01/05/2012  17:08  Page 6