 Avon Rubber p.l.c.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
investing in innovation
08
Chairman's Statement
I 
joined the Board in 2007 and assumed the Chairmanship this year at an exciting time for Avon. 
The Board has a clear strategy on how to take the business forward in both Protection & Defence 
and Dairy. In fi nancial terms we have made further progress in 2012, recording increases in operating 
margins, profi ts and earnings per share. Operating margins have increased by 0.6% to 10.9% with an 
operating profi t of  11.6m (2011:  11.1m) and diluted earnings per share were up 9% at 25.4p (2011: 23.3p).
While it is pleasing to report that fi nancial measures are moving 
in the right direction, it is more exciting to share with you some of 
the strategic progress we have made in 2012.  After three years of 
 turnaround', at the beginning of the year the Board recognised 
the need to accelerate investment in new products, technologies, 
systems and people. This phase of Avon's development started 
in 2012, with the Board expecting to see the benefi t of these 
investments starting in the second half of our 2013 fi nancial year.
In Protection & Defence, our order intake for the year was up 42% on 
the previous year.  Our long term contract with the US Department 
of Defense (DoD) is now in its fi fth year. We supplied 193,000 M50 
mask systems during the year (and nearly 825,000 systems in total) 
and enter 2013 with an order book for 148,000 mask systems and 
associated fi lters which gives us order coverage through the fi rst 
three quarters of the year. The consumable spare fi lter business 
has less visibility, but we enter 2013 with orders for 130,000 pairs 
of fi lters which covers the fi rst quarter. Uncertainty remains in the 
US regarding budget cuts and the threat of sequestration. Whilst 
we cannot claim to be immune to this risk, the fact that we are an 
established programme, delivering to schedule and have good 
visibility of orders going into 2013 gives us a reasonable degree 
of comfort. 
The M50 mask has successfully entered service with the US Marines 
and Air Force and we expect orders for the US 
Army to commence in 2013. The M50 and 
the enhanced Special Forces M53 and its 
commercial variants have established 
themselves as the 'must have' masks 
both in the US and internationally.
We are also working with the US Air 
Force and Navy to develop and test 
new products to meet their specifi c 
requirements.  
The non-DoD side of the business splits 
into two, the North American fi rst responder 
market and the Rest of World military and law enforcement 
market. In North America, while budget pressure certainly exists, 
we off er the respirator of choice for law enforcement, which 
enables us to displace incumbent product and grow our market 
share. Competition is more intense in the fi re market, where our 
investment in new products to meet new industry regulatory 
standards to be introduced in 2013 will create opportunities.
In Rest of World markets again we are the CBRN respiratory 
protection provider of choice and we continue to build business, 
particularly in the Middle East. The timing of end user procurement 
remains diffi  cult to predict, but we enter 2013 with a record non-
DoD order book of  15m, of which half is for delivery in 2013.
Our ability to convert profi t into cash has enabled us to increase 
investment in our innovative new product development 
programmes, laying the foundation for further growth. During 2012 
we have invested in new products and technologies and operational 
improvements. Our programme to expand and enhance our product 
range (Project Fusion) remains on time and on track with the fi rst 
new product due to be launched in the fi rst half of our new fi nancial 
year. Further product introductions are expected to provide organic 
growth from late 2013.  
Our Dairy business has made signifi cant progress this year. 
The business has demonstrated through the launch of its Impulse 
Mouthpiece Vented Liner (now branded ImpulseAir) that the 
industry is receptive to new technology which improves farm 
effi  ciency and animal health. The product ended the year with a 
16% market share in North America and this success has given us the 
confi dence to invest further in product development resource and 
to start work on the next generation of products.
We have also identifi ed the opportunity that exists in emerging 
markets, especially the BRIC nations, where the growing demand 
for food and the growing middle class has led to an increase in 
demand for dairy products. This, together with the recognition that 
the automation of the milking process has animal health and milk 
quality benefi ts, is driving the demand for our consumable product. 
David Evans, Chairman, Avon Rubber p.l.c.
 Strong cash generation has enabled us to invest in 
innovative new products and technologies and to 
enter new markets. This positions the Group 
to deliver further growth  Avon Rubber p.l.c.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
investing in innovation
09
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
We established a sales and distribution facility in China during 2012 
and have plans to open similar facilities in Brazil and India over the 
next three years.
We are also investing  2m in upgrading our IT systems. The Group 
will roll out Sage X3 across its sites in 2013 and 2014 to provide an 
integrated Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) infrastructure to 
support business growth. 
We have been able to make much of this investment because of 
our strong cash conversion during the year, which has also reduced 
net debt to  8.7m (2011:  11.8m). Our balance sheet is robust and 
with long term funding in place, the Group has the debt capacity to 
support further growth. 
Group results
Revenue decreased by 1% to  106.6m (2011:  107.6m) with 
Protection & Defence down 4% to  74.6m (2011:  77.4m) due to 
lower fi lter sales to the DoD and Dairy up 6% to  32.1m (2011: 
 30.2m). Although volatile during the year, foreign exchange 
translation has not had a material impact on the Group's results in 
2012 with the US $/  average rate being $1.58 (2011: $1.60).
Operating profi t before depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
rose 4% to  16.4m (2011:  15.7m). Operating profi t rose 4% to  11.6m 
(2011:  11.1m). 
Operating profi t in Protection & Defence was maintained at  7.5m 
(2011:  7.5m) refl ecting better operational performance which off set 
a 4% decrease in revenue.  Dairy profi ts continued to grow with 
operating profi t increasing by 9% to  6.0m (2011:  5.5m) refl ecting 
increased sales of our higher margin Milkrite products. 
Interest costs were 50% lower at  0.2m (2011:  0.5m) refl ecting the 
lower level of borrowings.
The Group adjusted eff ective tax rate fell from 29% to 28% to give a 
profi t for the year of  7.8m (2011:  7.1m) which equates to earnings 
per share of 26.9p (2011: 25.2p). On a fully diluted basis earnings per 
share rose 9% to 25.4p (2011: 23.3p).
Net debt reduced to  8.7m (2011:  11.8m), against committed bank 
facilities of  23.9m, the majority of which run to March 2015. 
Dividend 
Based on the Group's improved profi tability, cash generation and 
the confi dence the Board has in the Group's future prospects, the 
Board is pleased to propose a 20% increase in the fi nal dividend to 
shareholders of 2.4p per ordinary share (2011: 2.0p).  This, combined 
with the 2012 interim dividend of 1.2p, makes a full year dividend of 
3.6p (2011: 3.0p). 
Employees
We have challenged our employees to change signifi cantly over 
the last few years. This has been required to support the Group's 
progression from a traditional manufacturing business to a customer 
and technology driven, sales and marketing led organisation.  As 
we progress, we are focused on creating a culture of innovation to 
ensure the Group is able to take full advantage of opportunities in 
developing new technology and new markets while maintaining the 
manufacturing excellence for which the Group is so highly regarded. 
We recognise that this is not an easy process but our people have 
responded positively and I thank them for this on behalf of the Board. 
Opportunities
Over recent years we have successfully focused the business in our 
chosen areas of Protection & Defence and Dairy, realigned our cost 
base and dealt with a number of legacy issues. The nature of our 
challenge has changed with management now fi rmly focused on 
growth and margin enhancement. We are seeing that the global 
leading positions we already have in our markets are resulting in 
further opportunities for growth.  We continue to invest in innovative 
new technologies and products and in building our brand and 
market reach to bring these opportunities to fruition.  
Board changes
After retiring as Chairman at the last Annual General Meeting, the Rt. 
Hon. Sir Richard Needham remained as a Board Director to ensure a 
smooth transition but will retire from the Board at the next Annual 
General Meeting. I would like to express my sincere thanks to 
Sir Richard for his signifi cant contribution to the success of the 
Company over the last 6 years. 
I am delighted that Richard Wood will join the Board on 1 December 
2012.  Richard retired as Chief Executive of Genus plc in 2011 having 
led their expansion into new markets over the previous decade. 
Richard brings substantial experience of the industry in which our 
Dairy business operates and is a valuable addition to the Board.
Outlook
We have a clear strategic direction and expect to make further 
progress despite an uncertain outlook for global defence spending. 
In our Protection & Defence business, being the technology leader, 
operating in global markets, investing in people and products 
and having an appropriate cost base has allowed us to deliver 
substantial growth despite the weak economic environment since 
2008.  We continue to benefi t from the security of the long term DoD 
contract and increased market share in the US fi rst responder and 
foreign military and law enforcement markets. We are accelerating 
investment in new products and technologies and expect to 
continue to deliver further operational effi  ciencies.   
The Dairy business remains well positioned in a market with long 
term growth potential. Our cost base is appropriate and stable and 
we have opportunities to further enhance profi tability through 
developing our strong Milkrite brand, our global distribution 
capability and innovative new products. 
David Evans 
Chairman
21 November 2012