 Chairman's Report  
2 
 
Vertu Motors plc 
 
Since flotation in December 2006, the Group has established itself as a major player in the United 
Kingdom automotive retail sector.  The Group operates 74 franchised and three non-franchised 
sales operations. Indeed, our four year record is already impressive: 
 
Vertu:  2008 - 2011 a four year track record of growth 
 
   Feb 2008 Feb 2009  Feb 2010  Feb 2011  
Number of Outlets  44  42 59  75  
Turnover *  ( m)  677  761  755  946  
Gross Profit % *  11.5%  11.7%  12.4%  11.9%  
Adjusted Operating Profit %  *  0.45%  0.72%  0.99%  1.03%  
Adjusted PBT ( '000)  1,834  3,471  6,856  8,369  
Group Share of UK New Retail Private 
Market   
1.4%  1.8%  1.7%  2.4%  
 
* Continuing operations 
 
The Board has maintained a consistent strategy since flotation to grow a scaled motor retail 
dealership Group driving performance improvements through the implementation of consistent 
business processes and systems.  The recruitment, development and retention of high 
performing motor retail professionals is of paramount importance and the Board has developed 
its business model to ensure the culture of the Group is entrepreneurial and consistent with the 
encouragement of top performers.  This has led to the Group delivering increasing profits, 
growing market share and generating strong operating cashflows throughout the recessionary 
period of the past few years. 
 
Our objective has been to enhance the experiences of our customers and, in turn, secure 
significant gains in vehicle sales market share in our local territories.  This increasing local vehicle 
parc coupled with high levels of customer retention then drives higher aftersales activity levels.  
This virtuous circle of growth has allowed the Group to deliver improvements in profitability.  The 
Board believes operational gearing benefits will further accelerate profitability as the United 
Kingdom economy recovers over the next few years and new car volumes rise over this period.  
Over two million new cars are needed to be sold per annum to maintain the current size of the 
total UK vehicle parc and in 2011 the market is expected to be below this level.  Going forward 
the SMMT have forecast the new car market to naturally return to above 2 million units in 2012.  
Following a contraction in the sector these higher levels of new car sales will be sold and 
maintained by a smaller number of dealerships than prior to the recession. 
 
It is also clear that the current focal point for retail demand is cars with low running costs 
particularly through increased fuel efficiency.  While the shift in demand has been moving in this 
direction for some time, the above inflation increases in fuel and insurance have now accelerated 
this trend.  The Group is positioned with manufacturer partners who are focused on delivering this 
market requirement.  In 2011 the Group will commence retailing electric vehicles for the first time 
with Renault and Nissan and in 2012 with Vauxhall.  
 
The Group has delivered against its stated strategy in 2010/11 through successfully increasing 
the number of sales outlets operated from 59 to 77 since 1 March 2010.  This includes two 
additional outlets opened since the year end.  A significant number of the businesses acquired in 
the year have the potential for performance improvements over a three to four year period to 
deliver higher margins and returns.  These turnarounds are a key element of the Group's strategy 
to deliver shareholder value and to generate future earnings growth.  Dealerships acquired in the 
year ended 28 February 2011 generated a loss of  1.0m, due in part to the peak trading month of 
March being excluded from the results given the timing of the acquisitions undertaken. Chairman's Report (continued) 
3 
 
Vertu Motors plc 
 
The Group's robust balance sheet position with net cash of  13.6m at 28 February 2011 and 
committed debt capacity of an additional  35 million enables further expansion of the Group to be 
undertaken from existing resources.   
 
Going forward the Group's growth strategy remains in place, as we look to benefit from our strong 
balance sheet and the structural growth opportunities available to acquisitive motor retail 
businesses in what remains a highly fragmented market.  The Board is committed to continuing to 
build a sustainable, scalable business to deliver shareholder value. 
Financial Commentary  
Revenue in the year increased to  998.9m (2010 :  818.9m) reflecting both the impact of 
acquisitions made during the period and growth in the underlying business.  Like-for-like revenue 
increased  37.4m in the year reflecting both increases in vehicles sales prices and the number of 
vehicles sold.  Gross margins strengthened in the second half after having fallen from the very 
high levels seen in the first half of last year.  The mix of sales from the dealerships acquired 
during the year had a significantly lower proportion of low margin fleet business.  This trend will 
continue to strengthen margins for the enlarged business.   
 
Adjusted EBITDA increased to  12.1m, compared to  10.5m in the year ended 28 February 
2010.  Profitability growth included a  2.4m increased contribution from acquisitions made in the 
year ended 28 February 2010.  This was partly offset by the losses of  1.0m relating to 
acquisitions made in the current year.  The core business saw profits flat despite the return to 
more normal, lower used car margins compared to the unprecedented high levels in the prior year 
and the ending of the Government Scrappage Scheme in the summer of 2010.  Importantly, 
aftersales operations saw a like-for-like increase in profitability of  1.5m year on year.  EBITDA 
and profit before tax were  10.0m (2010 :  9.0m) and  5.3m (2010 :  4.6m) respectively.  
Exceptional costs of  2.8m (2010 :  1.9m) were incurred in the period predominantly reflecting 
losses on property held for resale and costs related to the refinancing of the Group's borrowing 
facilities and the restructuring of the associated hedging arrangements. 
 
The Group has continued to focus on working capital management in the period and generated 
 12.0m of operating cashflow.  Strong cash generation has resulted in the Group having a net 
cash position of  13.6m at 28 February 2010 despite significant investment in new businesses in 
the period.  The Board intends to continue to fund the acquisition of additional motor retail 
dealerships from these resources and from its available committed loan and working capital 
facilities of  35m.  
 
Current Trading and Outlook 
The Group has traded ahead of the Board's expectations in March and April reflecting a stronger 
than budgeted new car and aftersales performance offsetting slower used car sales. Cash 
generation has also been significantly ahead of the Board's expectations. 
 
March is the most important month for the profitability of UK motor retail as a consequence of the 
plate change and its impact on new car demand.  UK new car registrations to private buyers in 
March and April fell by 18.6% year on year partly reflecting the impact of the Government's 
Scrappage Scheme in the prior year.  The Group's like-for-like new retail volumes declined 10.4% 
and therefore the Group gained market share.  Substantial bonus income from manufacturers 
was earned by achieving manufacturer targets at high levels, and overall profitability in new cars 
was ahead of the Board's expectations albeit, as anticipated, behind last year's levels on a like-
for-like basis. 
  Chairman's Report (continued) 
4 
 
Vertu Motors plc 
Current Trading and Outlook (continued) 
 
The fragility and unpredictability of retail consumer demand in March and in April, as witnessed 
elsewhere in the consumer facing economy, was apparent with the Group's like-for-like used 
retail volumes down 9.0% year-on-year. The impact of this higher than expected volume shortfall 
has been partially mitigated by higher margins being achieved. 
 
Aftersales profitability since the year-end has exceeded the Board's expectations, running ahead 
of prior year and budgeted levels, and continues to benefit from the customer retention initiatives 
being executed by the Group. 
 
There is a degree of uncertainty over the impact of disruption of new vehicle supply over the next 
six months due to the natural disaster which occurred in Japan on 11 March. The Board 
anticipates that certain manufacturers will see a curtailment of new vehicle supply and the Board 
will continue to assess the short term impact of this as a clearer picture emerges. This, together 
with the underlying subdued consumer environment and pricing pressures on new cars coming 
from commodity price rises is likely to dampen the growth of the new car market in the short term. 
In contrast, used vehicle pricing is likely to be boosted by any new vehicle supply constraints 
which may enhance used car margins. Aftersales remains resilient and an area of opportunity. 
  
The Group has made significant progress executing its growth strategy having undertaken a 
significant number of acquisitions which have been fully integrated into the Group's management 
systems and processes.  16 dealerships were added to the Group's portfolio during the year to 
February 2011, and a further two since the year-end.  These dealerships are showing a 
consistent trend of enhanced performance with the scope for significant margin enhancement as 
they generate retail margins closer to the core Group average over time.  This, combined with the 
resilience of the Group's used car and aftersales operations, gives the Board confidence about 
the Group's prospects for the remainder of the financial year. Investment in growth remains at the 
top of the Board's agenda and the Group is considering a number of additional acquisition 
opportunities which are likely to lead to further expansion of the Group's number of sales outlets 
in the coming months.   
 
Dividend 
As the cash generation of the underlying business grows, the Board has established the payment 
of dividends with a maiden interim dividend of 0.2p paid in January 2011 and a final dividend of 
0.3p recommended to be paid in July 2011.  The dividend strategy will be progressive going 
forwards with an interim and final component. 
 
 
P R Williams 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 