 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
John McDonough CBE
Chairman
I am pleased to be able to report on a successful 
first year for Vesuvius plc (the Company ). There 
is no doubt that your Company has benefited 
from the independent status and greater focus it 
has enjoyed since its creation as a result of the 
demerger of Cookson Group in December 2012. 
This is reflected both in our very solid trading 
performance and in the strategic progress 
achieved. 
Since the demerger, the Board has taken 
important further steps structurally to transform 
the business. In the first quarter of 2013, we 
completed the restructuring of the Fused Silica 
business and in May we completed the disposal 
of the Precious Metals Processing division. As 
a result, Vesuvius is now a fully focused molten 
metal engineering company, principally serving 
the global steel and foundry industries. We enjoy 
global leadership positions in those markets, 
providing technologically advanced products 
and services that are critical to our customers' 
efficiency and therefore their profitability.
The benefits of this greater focus and strong 
competitive positioning can be seen in our 
financial results for 2013. Against stable but 
relatively subdued market conditions overall, our 
profit performance improved over the prior year 
with, importantly, our margins benefiting from 
the internal performance improvement initiatives 
that have been implemented. Cash generation 
remained strong, and our balance sheet is robust.
Strategy
The Board is responsible for setting the strategic 
direction of your Company, and for ensuring 
that the business model, remuneration and 
all associated key performance indicators are 
aligned to its successful delivery. 
Our strategy, which remains consistent with that 
set out at the time of the demerger, is to capitalise 
on our leading position in molten metal flow 
engineering to create sustainable shareholder 
value. We aim to do this by:
 	 reinforcing our technology and innovation 
leadership positions
 	 enlarging our addressable markets through 
the increasing penetration of existing and new 
value-creating solutions
 	 leveraging our strong positions in developing 
markets to capture the growth opportunities 
that they represent
 	 improving our cost leadership and our 
margins, and
 	 building organically, and where appropriate 
through carefully evaluated acquisitions, 
an increasingly comprehensive product and 
technical services offering.
Our flexible business model is capable of 
delivering attractive levels of profit and cash over 
the cycle and in the face of changing market 
conditions. Firm financial and capital discipline is 
a central strategic priority. 
Further detail on our strategy, and on its 
execution during 2013, is set out within the 
Strategic Report on pages 10 to 47. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 10.25 pence per share for 2013. This would 
result in a total dividend for the year of 15 pence 
per share, an increase on Vesuvius' share of 
the full year Cookson Group dividend for 2012 
of 5.3%. The final dividend, if approved at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 
23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register 
at 25 April 2014.
c hairman's Statement
A successful first year for Vesuvius plc
Vesuvius plc
 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 06
www.vesuvius.com 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
Vesuvius is a cash generative and well-invested 
business. Our dividend policy aims to deliver 
long-term dividend growth, provided that 
this is supported by underlying earnings, cash 
flows, capital expenditure requirements and the 
prevailing market outlook. 
Capital Discipline
Alongside dividends, capital discipline plays a 
part in our commitment to delivering superior 
returns to our shareholders. Having completed 
the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing 
division for  56.8 million in May 2013, the 
Company returned some  30 million of those 
proceeds to shareholders by way of an on-
market share repurchase programme which 
concluded in September, with the balance 
being applied to the reduction of net debt. 
Consequently, during the year we returned  
 70 million to shareholders as a result of the 
payment of dividends and the repurchase of our 
shares. 
In December, we further strengthened our 
financial position through the issue of  
c.US$100 million of US Private Placement 
loan notes with a good mix of maturities out 
to 2028. With our balance sheet strength and 
cash generative characteristics, we remain in a 
strong position to fund attractive future growth 
opportunities. 
Reporting
The Board has concluded that this Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable, 
and that it provides the necessary information 
for shareholders to assess the Group's strategy, 
business model and performance, as well as our 
approach to and performance in the important 
areas of gender diversity, human rights, 
environmental impact and specifically our direct 
carbon emissions. Further detail on these can 
be found within the Strategic Report referred to 
above.
Board Composition 
A substantially new Board of Directors was 
appointed in late 2012 as a result of the 
demerger and strengthened further on 1 March 
2013 by the appointment of Nelda Connors as a 
Non-executive Director. Having served nine years 
as Non-executive Directors of Cookson Group plc 
prior to the demerger, both John Sussens and Jan 
Oosterveld retired from the Board, as planned, 
at the close of the Annual General Meeting on 4 
June 2013. I would like to thank them for their 
considerable contribution to the successful start- 
up of Vesuvius plc. John Sussens was succeeded 
as Senior Independent Director by Jeff Hewitt 
and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
by Jane Hinkley. There have been no further 
changes to the Board since that date. With our 
strong diversity and appropriate mix of skills and 
experience, I am confident that the Board has 
operated effectively in its first full year.
In September 2013, Henry Knowles was 
appointed as Company Secretary and General 
Counsel, succeeding Richard Malthouse. On 
behalf of the Board, I thank Richard for his 
important contribution to the Company over 
many years.
The composition, responsibilities and operation 
of the Board, and Directors' Biographies are set 
out within the Governance Report on pages 54 
to 60 and 50 to 51, respectively. 
Governance 
The Board is responsible for setting Group 
strategy and charging the executive with 
the delivery of that strategy, including the 
management of resources and associated risks 
and controls. Given the broad international 
spread of the business, the Board considers that 
risk management is a significant priority and 
consequently places considerable emphasis on 
this area within its overall governance agenda. 
Throughout 2013 we have operated under a 
robust governance structure which also complied 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. We 
continue to evolve our governance arrangements 
to comply with emerging best practice and we 
firmly believe that strong corporate governance 
is central to the delivery of sustainable long-term 
shareholder value.  
The Board is committed to embedding the 
right culture throughout the Group and the 
Company's Code of Conduct clearly sets out the 
values and behaviour that we expect from all our 
people. Further details are set out on page 39 of 
the Strategic Report.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 
11.00 am on 15 May 2014 at the Lincoln Centre, 
18 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London. The Notice of the 
Meeting and explanatory notes accompany this 
Annual Report. I look forward to the opportunity 
to meet as many of our shareholders as possible 
at that time.
Our People
Our success over the past year has been in 
large part down to the talent and efforts of our 
people. We continue to invest in our people - in 
their training, development (see pages 39 to 
43), and in their health and safety on which 
we continue to place increasing emphasis, as 
reported on pages 32 and 33.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all our people for their significant contribution 
to a very successful first year as a stand-alone 
company.
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
4 March 2014
07
www.vesuvius.com 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
08
www.vesuvius.com
Vesuvius plc
 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.vesuvius.com
08 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive's Review 10
Financial Review 13
Key Performance Indicators 17
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 18
Strategy 20
The Vesuvius Business Model 22
Steel Division 24
Foundry Division 29
Safety 32
Innovation 34
Lean Manufacturing 36
Quality 37
Corporate Responsibility 39
Our Values 40
Human Resources 41
Sustainability 44
The Strategic Report set out on pages 10 to 47 contains a fair review of our businesses, our strategy, 
our business model and the associated principal risks and uncertainties. We also deliver a review of our 
performance during our first full year as an independent company and set out an overview of our markets. 
Details of our people, values and approach to Corporate Responsibility are also contained in the report. 
This section shows how we are well positioned to grow and to deliver superior returns  to shareholders.
Fran ois Wanecq   Chris O'Shea 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
Picture:   Magnum Photos
Strategic r eport 09 s trateg Ic r eport
www.vesuvius.com
09