 3
Chairman's Statement
During the period under review, the Group has made much progress with the launch of new
products and focus on marketing. These two initiatives have had a positive response from some
of the largest European companies and brands, which has demonstrated the scale and potential
that exists beyond the UK market. Initial orders are being negotiated with some of Europe's
major drinks and catering companies.  Indications are that the Company's new products and
services are perceived by these, and other organisations, as a practical means of enhancing the
performance and control of their vending assets.
I am encouraged by the significant progress that has been made in both technical and marketing
terms up to, and following, the trade launch in May 2002 of vOpen, our completely new family
of telemetry products. Since the launch, the Company has accelerated its relationship building
with customers and supply partners, attending a number of trade shows and hiring new sales
staff.
A thorough reappraisal of Vianet's strategy and business model took place during the year. This
confirmed the validity of the Company's strategy of targeting the European vending market for
telemetry services but entailed making fundamental improvements to the business model in
terms of product design, manufacturing cost and market positioning. It was also clear that it
would take longer than originally thought to generate significant contracted revenues. As a
consequence the Company needed to raise further funding which, I am pleased to say, was
successfully accomplished in July 2002 despite adverse stock market conditions.
Management and Staff
The year saw major changes to the management team. Ian Orrock joined the Board on 12
November 2001 as Chief Executive and Alastair Kerr joined as Finance Director on 29 January
2002. Ian Orrock has been the principal force behind Vianet's strategic repositioning and
fundraising and has also assumed direct responsibility for driving sales and marketing following
the resignation, in August 2002, of the Sales and Marketing Director recruited earlier in the
year.
The Company has expanded the sales team through the appointment of two sales managers
with extensive experience in the European vending industry, has recruited an Implementation
Manager with experience of project management and software products, and since the year-
end two multi-lingual support staff have joined.
Many of the Company's staff are shareholders, most participate in the Company's Share Save
Scheme and almost all have share options. Individually they are highly skilled and, as a group,
they are strongly motivated to the common goal of Vianet's commercial success. The significant
progress achieved over the past year in all areas is founded on their belief in the Company,
coupled with hard work and creativity. On behalf of the Board, I wish to record our appreciation
of the staff's contribution in readying Vianet for commercial success. The average employee
headcount for the year ended 30 September 2002 was 22, (2001: 20) and is currently 25.
Financial Results
The loss before tax for the year ended 30 September 2002 was in line with expectations at
 1,955,446 (year to 30 September 2001:  2,155,336 loss) on sales of  13,124 (2001:  32,952).
The trading results reflected the cessation of the old legacy systems and the development of the
new vOpen product family which was completed in the year. Interest income was  17,906
(2001:  99,638). 4
Chairman's Statement
Financial Results (continued)
The resultant loss per share was 6.3 p (2001: loss per share 11.5p). The comparative results
have been extracted from the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2001. The
Company had approximately  1,595,000 of net cash at 30 September 2002.  No dividend is
payable.
Funding
The Balance Sheet was strengthened by the proceeds from the Placing and Open Offer in July
2002. A total of  2.3 million was raised, exceeding the target set by the Board. Expenses have
been carefully managed throughout the year and while the current rate of cash burn is increasing
as a result of more marketing and product rollout activity it is anticipated to sustain the Company
through to the commencement of volume rollout.
The Company has held encouraging discussions with its bankers about the funding of significant
and rentalised contracts. The bank has confirmed an overdraft facility to support the Company's
short term working capital requirements. Negotiations are ongoing with the bank regarding it
supporting the working capital requirements of major contracts and extended payment profiles
by substantially funding the manufactured cost of goods.
Operations and Engineering
A key differentiator from some competitors is that Vianet's engineering and product development
is all performed in house.
At the beginning of the current year Vianet had a number of legacy evaluation units still active
across various projects in the field. Results confirmed that Vianet's legacy technology worked
and delivered a viable service. These original systems, which helped to validate the vending
market's potential, were de-commissioned over the summer in order to focus on launching the
vOpen systems.
The hardware and software engineering of vOpen, while addressing the same target market
and product concept, bears only a limited resemblance to Vianet's legacy systems. The new
system is a great step forward. Cost of goods and of installation for the new product and service
offerings have been greatly improved. The Company has reassessed its telecommunications
supply arrangements, achieving significant cost savings with improved operational cover
extended into most European markets. A new long-term manufacturing supply partnership has
recently been agreed.
Vianet's new product offerings, accessed via the Internet, are infinitely scaleable and are designed
to delegate the management and reporting of vending applications to the users themselves. The
systems fully integrate with corporate databases and enterprise systems thus enabling a fully
integrated and more easily managed service at the corporate level.
The new products and services greatly improve the vending channel performance of global
brands and local operators alike. Services are typically available under a long-term contract
over which period users gain a substantial economic benefit and competitive advantage. 5
Chairman's Statement
Strategy
The strategic focus, manifested in May 2002 with the new vOpen product family, positioning
Vianet as a market-facing vending services company rather than a technology based vendor,
has been well received by the market. Vianet's strategy of seeking long-term customer
partnerships in the European vending sector with global brands, operators, machine
manufacturers and certain niche players remains unchanged and has recently been reinforced
by positive market response.
The original Vianet concept of using proprietary telemetry technology supported by a relational
database to enhance users' management of vending assets and products remains in place.
A uniquely significant investment across European vending recently came to a conclusion with
the introduction of the Euro. The Euro has been the primary preoccupation for all European
brands and vending companies. There are some 3.3 million vending machines in Continental
Europe where the industry's investment to upgrade coin acceptors for the snacks, drinks and
coffee market alone cost around  475 per machine. Preparation for and implementation of the
Euro has undoubtedly deferred the European market's take up of vending telemetry. Based on
input from across the market, the Company is confident that the vending industry is now ready
to embrace telemetry and that Vianet's new vOpen products and services are positioned at the
forefront of development.
Outlook
There is no doubt that the original Vianet concept for vending telemetry remains valid although,
with hindsight, the Company was ambitious about timescales and failed to account for the
demands of the Euro introduction in vending budgets. Significant and fundamental changes
have now been made to the way in which we do business and address the expanding European
vending market.
The experience of the Company continues to be that the timescales for prospects to commit to
these contracts is lengthy and, at times, frustratingly slow. However, the Company has
benchmarked its new products against the market and believes it is increasingly seen as a
European reference point for vending telemetry.
The Company is commercially focused, has new leadership and a highly motivated team to
take us forward. Positive feedback from major European brands indicates the value and timeliness
of Vianet's new products and services. I am confident that the Company can fulfil its potential
as a leading telemetry specialist in the European vending market and most importantly that the
major brands now have the funding and a clearly recognised need for the new products and
services we offer.
John M May
Chairman
10 January 2003