 4
Chairman's Statement
dear Shareholder,
It is my pleasure to once again review Victoria's achievements for the year. We are close to achieving first gas sales in 
Logbaba, Cameroon, which will transform Victoria into a revenue generating exploration, gas production and distribution 
company. this has been a year like no other at Victoria, not without its challenges, but overall 2010 has been a truly 
transformational year. 
Review of the Ma Rkets f inancial distress in the global economy, which began in the second half of 2008, continued throughout the year. this led 
to unprecedented efforts from governments around the world to provide fiscal stimulus programmes, designed to bring 
stability and liquidity to the market and to restore economic activity. despite some encouraging signs, the uncertainty has 
continued and it looks likely to remain for the foreseeable future. 
f or some independents the lack of liquidity, allied to the fragility of the banking markets, proved too great, resulting in a 
number of failures and distressed sales. f or companies able to raise funds, the cost of borrowing has increased substantially, 
even for the highest credit rated companies. 
In this context, it is noteworthy that Victoria was able to raise US$51million this financial year to finance the Logbaba 
drilling programme. 
Logbaba , Ca Me Roon Progress at Logbaba from the second half of 2009 to date has been exceptional. Last year I said that I had not seen a 
project so favourably positioned for swift development and monetisation. despite some obstacles, our achievements this 
year have reinforced this view.
the Company has drilled and completed two successful production wells, concluded all engineering studies for bringing 
gas to market and secured key gas sales contracts. We are now within sight of having a gas treatment plant and pipeline 
to distribute gas from the field. 
My colleague, r adwan hadi, provides more detail on our drilling campaign in his review of operations but I wish to 
make a few comments. f irstly, delivering two out of two successful high pressure, high temperature production wells, 
La-105 and La-106, in an area largely devoid of oil and gas infrastructure is a great achievement. Both wells have been 
completed as producers, and tested at rates of up to 55 million standard cubic feet per day (MMscf/d) and up to 22 
MMscf/d for La-105 and La-106 respectively.
Production from the wells will be capable of meeting anticipated market requirements until the next drilling programme. 
recently , we were able to announce a five fold increase in Proved reserves to 49 Bcf, while Proved and Probable reserves 
more than doubled to 212 Bcf. these reserve upgrades represent the potential of an area covering only 10% to 20% of the 
licence block. having defined new leads in other areas of the block, we were also able to announce prospective resources 
in excess of 1 tcf. We are the first Company to drill onshore in Cameroon for over fifty years. although we experienced 
some drilling difficulties that led to significant cost overruns, I remain confident that during our next anticipated drilling 
campaign in 2012, we will capitalise on our experiences and deliver even greater success.
all other aspects involved with bringing Logbaba gas to market have exceeded our expectations.
In July this year, we announced a reduction in capital expenditure saving in excess of $20 million with regard to facilities, 
pipeline costs and civil expenditure to achieve first gas sales. this was achieved by a restructuring of the project into 
three distinct phases, where all non-critical expenditure was deferred. f urthermore, our proposal to employ high density 
polyethylene pipe as a replacement to steel pipe complies with all necessary project safety and technical standards while 
saving considerable capital. f inally, we have deferred full purchase of the treatment facilities for a minimum of two years 
from first gas sales.
Concerning sales, our gas marketing team has signed key industrial customers, including some multinational firms, for 
gas delivery in 2011. this is an ongoing process and the Company expects many more customers to be signed up during 
the rest of this quarter and into 2011. discussions with douala industrial customers have been extremely positive and  5
indicate the potential for significant market growth. the Company anticipates achieving daily gas sales of approximately 
8 MMscf/d by the end of 2011 with potential to increase to 100 MMscf/d within five years.
Victoria has established first mover advantage in the Cameroon and Central african gas market and we shall own and 
control our own pipeline. Industry in douala is handicapped by high energy costs and unreliable delivery. f or some 
industries, each outage can cost tens of thousands of dollars in material wastage and lost time. Consequently, many of 
our customers are interested in utilising Logbaba gas supply as their prime energy source via gas powered generators on 
site. o ur contracts allow customers to lock into fixed prices for five years at substantially lower rates than currently paid. 
Importantly for Victoria, this also means we are not exposed to the fluctuations in gas prices in other markets and in this 
regard, we could be seen as a utility company.
f rom a macro perspective, power supply in Cameroon is inadequate, hampering the prospect of foreign investment and 
expansion from existing industries. the government plans to increase power supply from an estimated current working 
capacity of 600 MW to 2,000 MW by the year 2020. Victoria is well placed to provide gas to thermal power projects 
currently being planned in douala. 
f inally, the Company awaits the issue of the exploitation a uthorisation and domestic t ransport a uthorisation licences. 
a project delay is anticipated whilst the State hydrocarbons Corporation (Snh), the Ministry of Mines and t echnology 
and the Presidential office undertake various levels of due diligence before these permits can be issued. It must be 
remembered that this will be the first such licence issued in Cameroon. however, we remain confident that these permits 
are imminent and that Victoria has fully complied with and satisfied all requests to date. We now expect to deliver first 
gas in Q1 2011.
w est Medvezhye , Russia West Medvezhye (West Med), strategically located in the n enets region of Siberia with a licence area covering 1224km
2
, 
represents an asset with major hydrocarbon potential. It lies just west of the super giant Medvezhye field where over 70 tcf 
of dry gas has been produced. f urther to our discovery well 103 drilled in 2006, the exploitation licence area has C1 and 
C2 (r ussian classification) recoverable reserves of 14.4 million barrels of oil equivalent and C3 resources of 170 million 
barrels of oil equivalent approved by the r ussian Ministry of n atural resources. In addition, independent reserve auditors 
deGolyer and Macn aughton have calculated best estimate gross prospective recoverable resources of approximately 1.1 
billion barrels for the entire West Med Licence block.
d uring the past twelve months, Victoria completed a winter road and carried out passive seismic and geochemical studies 
to further delineate the field and to allow us to target more prospects for drilling. We are now integrating the new passive 
seismic and geochemical studies with existing data sets. Initial indications are highly encouraging with three further 
prospects identified. the Company plans to drill two more wells by 2012. 
Victoria is actively evaluating all of its options concerning the future development of West Med.
k e Me Rk o L, k azakhst an In the 2009 a nnual report and a ccounts, the directors made a provision of $35.5 million against the carrying value of 
the Kemerkol asset subsequent to our licence being revoked by the economic Court of the a tyrau o blast of Kazakhstan. 
We continue to fight our corner within the constraints of the Kazakhstani legal system and still remain hopeful of a 
positive outcome but Kemerkol's long-term economic importance within Victoria's overall portfolio of assets has been 
minimised. 
o the R PRoje Cts Victoria extended its option in n ovember 2009 to acquire f alcon Petroleum Limited (f alcon), a private company with 
50% of a Production Sharing agreement (PSa) covering one block in Mali and 90% of a PSa covering three blocks in 
ethiopia. t otal acreage in the two PSas covers approximately 46,000 km
2
. While these areas are relatively unexplored, 
both are highly prospective regions of africa. Block ab1 in ethiopia has oil seeps, confirming an active petroleum system. 
f urther subsurface exploration will greatly enhance our understanding of f alcon's potential and identify target locations 
for exploration drilling. the Company has an agreement with f alcon to extend the option for a further year and is 
planning to run a passive seismic surveying programme in ethiopia before the year end.  6
Chairman's Statement continued
In addition, Victoria has also applied for five blocks in Liberia's third offshore bid round and we hope to know the results 
of this bid by the end of the year.
Victoria's strategy remains to grow organically and via acquisition into a profitable company. the Company now has 
total recoverable Proved and Probable reserves of 35.6 MMboe and significant potential, with prospective resources of 
over 1.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent. We will endeavour to maximise shareholder value through further development 
and appraisal work on our existing assets. f urthermore, the Company will continue to appraise new opportunities and 
commercial transactions, where our technical expertise and experience gained to date, particularly in africa, can be used 
to an advantage. 
In conclusion, thank you to all employees and advisers of the Company and my fellow directors for their hard work this 
year. Most of all, I thank Victoria's shareholders for your continued support. I shall continue to update you on progress via 
our quarterly letters and as news breaks. 
Kevin Foo 
Chairman