 Virotec International plc 
 
 
 
2  
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
   
Dear Shareholders 
I am pleased to present the Group's financial report for the year ended 31 December 2007.   
The Group achieved turnover for the year ended 31 December 2007 of AUD$3.52 million compared with 
AUD$1.57 million for six months ended 31 December 2006. The loss for the year was AUD$13.4m, 
compared to a loss of AUD$7.6m for the six months ended 31 December 2006. The comparative information 
provided is only for the six month period to 31 December 2006 due to the change in the financial reporting 
period from the end of June to the end of December as a consequence of the change of domicile of the Group 
to the UK with Virotec International plc becoming the group holding company in August 2006.  
The Group's balance sheet for the year remains strong with net assets of AUD$17.4m, limited borrowings and 
significant investments in two listed companies (Hydrodec Group plc and The Greenhouse Fund Limited), 
which are recorded at book value in the balance sheet at AUD$9.7m whilst their current market value is in 
excess of AUD$57m. The cash balance at year end was AUD$0.4m, however this does not include 
approximately AUD$2m relating to the sale of Hydrodec Group plc shares in December 2007, which was 
accounted for as a receivable at year end and subsequently received in January 2008. 
The Group continued to provide environmental remediation and waste treatment services through the 
application of Group patented technologies in the following areas: 
Environmental Remediation 
  ViroMine  Technology - applications developed for the mining industry.  
  ViroSoil  Technology - applications developed for the agricultural, fertiliser and aquaculture 
industries.  
 
Drinking Water, Wastewater and Solid Waste Treatment 
  ViroFlow  Technology - applications developed for the treatment of drinking water and 
wastewater and solid waste from industrial sites.  
  ViroSewage  Technology (referred to as ViroFilter  Technology in the UK) - applications 
developed for the sewage industry.  
 
The Group's operations are conducted in three geographic areas: Australia and Asia, Europe and the USA. 
 
Australia and  Asia 
 
In Australia and Asia, the Group's environmental remediation operations continued to grow, with a record 
year in terms of revenue. The turnover for the region for the period ended 31 December 2007 year was 
AUD$2.16m, compared with AUD$0.89m for six months ended 31 December 2006. The Group has operated 
for the longest period in the Australian market which has been the proving ground for its core technologies. 
The various environmental remediation and waste treatment applications have been commercially developed 
in Australia which has proven the viability of the aforementioned technologies. The Group now has significant 
market presence and forward orders in this region, and will continue to increase both its revenue and 
profitability in the coming year. 
 
In March 2008, Virotec announced a significant new contract has been entered to supply solid waste treatment 
services to Nyrstar Hobart Pty Ltd (formerly part of Zinifex Ltd) using its ViroFlow  Technology. The 
contract is to treat mercurous filter cake and is expected to generate up to $3.5m in revenue in 2008.  Work 
on the contract has commenced and is expected to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2008. 
 
Europe 
 
In Europe, the primary focus to date has been within the United Kingdom. The turnover for the year ended 31 
December 2007 was AUD$0.56m compared to $0.55m in the six months ended 31 December 2006. Initially, 
the Group targeted water companies with its ViroFilter  Technology for phosphate removal from municipal 
wastewater. This technology had been successfully trialled by an independent body, the Water Research 
Council, and has now been verified by one of the UK's largest water companies. Due to customer budgetary  Virotec International plc 
 
 
 3
cycles, this part of the market has taken longer than expected to penetrate. During the period, a new general 
manager for the UK operations was appointed and the business is now expanding into other areas of waste 
treatment, including hazardous solid waste management, that have been successfully realised in Australia and 
which are expected to generate more immediate sales in the UK. 
 
The operations in Italy have been scaled back, with a view of finding a licencee to manage the sales and 
marketing effort in the region.  All production assets from Italy have been transferred to the USA where 
production for all geographical will be now based. 
 
United States of America  
 
The turnover in the USA for the year ended 31 December 2007 was AUD$0.8m compared to AUD$0.13m 
for the six months ended 31 December 2006. The USA is considered to be our largest target market and 
three key industries have been identified for near-term focus by the Group. 
 
1. Drinking Water from Wells - The Group has spent a significant amount of time addressing the regulatory 
issues associated with drinking water, particularly where contaminants include radium, uranium, gross alpha 
and/or arsenic. The Group has two ViroFlow  Technology filter systems installed at the date of this report. 
  
2. Phosphate Removal from Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO) Lagoons - In June 2007, the 
Group was contracted to treat 13 lagoons for the largest hog farmer in the world. The treatments have been 
completed and it is expected that further contracts to treat additional lagoons will follow. These results will 
allow part of our ongoing sales efforts to target other CAFOs.  
 
3. Wastewater Treatment Plants - To date a number of wastewater treatment plants have been contracted to 
use ViroFlow  Technology to treat their waste lagoons for phosphate and odour reduction. These 
treatments have been successful and the Group now has important reference sites to demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the technology to other companies in the region.   
 
In 2007 the sales effort in the USA was based in Colorado and South Carolina, where the Group operated 
through its 66% owned joint venture, Virotec Aquasolve. Due to the disappointing result in 2007 an extensive 
review of the operations was conducted by the Group. 
 
Following this review the Board dismissed existing management of Virotec Aquasolve and commenced 
proceedings against them to recover assets which they consider to be misapplied.  The majority of fixed assets 
have been secured and the cash balances expected to be recovered are not material in the context of the 
Group as a whole.   
 
Following the restructuring,, all USA operations are now being managed directly by CEO, Dr Lee Fergusson, 
and are now both financially and operationally structured to more closely resemble Virotec's Australian 
operations, which are now trading profitably.  
 
Investment in Associate 
 
Virotec holds 54,500,000 ordinary shares in Hydrodec Group plc (Hydrodec ) representing 28.1 percent of 
its issued share capital. In addition, under a royalty agreement, Virotec is entitled to receive five percent of 
revenues generated by the Hydrodec technology. 
 
At present, production of Hydrodec's Superfine  transformer oil at its Australian facility is at near full 
capacity and demand continues to be strong, driven primarily by an export order from a Turkish distributor 
which was announced on 8 November 2007. 
 
On 29 January 2008, Hydrodec announced it had made progress in the USA with the construction of its first 
production plant in Ohio. A decision was also made to accelerate the planning and construction of a second 
plant in Mississippi, which is expected to be fully operational by the third quarter of 2009.   
 
In a trading update, announced on 28 February 2008, Hydrodec stated that it had reached a price agreement 
with, and secured a conditional commitment from, a transformer oil buyer in the US to purchase more than 
50 per cent. of the maximum production capacity of the Ohio plant, plus a firm expression of interest in 
increasing purchase quantities upon the commissioning of the Mississippi plant.   
 
On 11 March 2008, Hydrodec announced its preliminary results for the year to 31 December 2007 which 
showed a pre-tax loss of  2.3m (2006:  2.8m) and a decrease in net operating cash outflow to  0.6m (2006: 
 2.1m).   Virotec International plc 
 
 
 
4  
 
Investment 
 
Virotec holds 30,000,000 ordinary shares in The Greenhouse Fund Limited (Greenhouse ) representing 
approximately 20 percent of its issued share capital. Greenhouse is a Jersey domiciled, closed-ended 
investment company established to invest principally in sustainable environmental technologies to create a 
portfolio of investment holdings in the Environmental Sector.  
 
Since inception Greenhouse has invested in the Environmental Sector acquiring five Bauxsol  Technology 
sub-licences from Virotec and now owns approximately 57% in Molectra Australia Pty Ltd, which is licensed to 
commercialise an advanced technology based on a sustainable process that re-cycles used vehicle tyres and 
recovers materials from them, including crumb rubber, oil and carbon.  
 
As a result of a conservative accounting treatment this investment has been written down to market value at 
31 December 2007 resulting in an impairment loss of AUD$3.5m being recorded in the current year. 
 
Dividend 
 
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend as they believe their resources will provide a greater 
return by being re-invested in its business operations.  
 
Bid Approach 
 
As advised to the market on 30 January 2008, Virotec was approached in relation to proposals that might 
result in an offer being made for the Company. On 4 April 2008, Virotec  confirmed that discussions were on-
going with one party, and that Hydrodec had informed Virotec that it had purchased 7.75m shares (2.93 per 
cent. of the issued share capital) and noted its intention to make an offer at around 12p for the Company and 
that it had support of shareholders holding just below 30 per cent. of the issued share capital. Hydrodec 
announced that it had increased its holding to just over 3 per cent. and that its all share offer would be on the 
basis of 1 Hydrodec share for every 3.75 Virotec shares. Further it stated that it was seeking the 
recommendation of the Virotec Board.  
 
Virotec is progressing these discussions at a good pace and the Board of Virotec hopes to be in a position to 
enable proposals to be put before shareholders as soon as due diligence and the legal requirements have been 
completed. 
 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Brian Sheeran 
Executive Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 