 02 Vislink Annual Report 2005
We believe the Group is well placed 
to meet the growth opportunities in its
established professional television and
marine security markets. 
CHAIRMAN'S
ST A TEMENT
 
Bob Morton, Chairman. 03 Vislink Annual Report 2005
Introduction
I am pleased to report that the Group has had a very successful
year and achieved record profits.
MRC, the US broadcast business, had its best ever year for
operating profit, orders and sales, benefiting from an increase in
orders for its core business and incremental business from the
2GHz re-channelisation programme in the US. Link Research,
acquired in February 2005, has been successfully integrated 
into the Group and has made a significant contribution to
operating profits. Advent, the UK satcoms business, achieved a
strong increase in order intake in the second half of the year.
Hernis, our specialist marine CCTV business, also had a record
year for order intake and sales, generated by the strong demand
for its market-leading products.
Results for the year
The Group's orders received increased by 92 per cent to
 95.50 million (2004 -  49.72 million) whilst revenues
increased by 25.4 per cent to  85.07 million (2004 - 
 67.83 million), including incremental orders and sales 
from Link of  3.66 million and  3.67 million respectively.
The Group's adjusted operating profit, being operating profit
before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment of
goodwill and rationalisation costs, increased by 227 per cent 
to  8.35 million (2004 -  2.55 million).The adjusted profit
margin improved significantly to 9.8 per cent of sales 
(2004 - 3.8 per cent).The reported operating profit was 
 7.14 million (2004 -  0.19 million).
Pre-tax profit rose to  6.37 million (2004 -  0.31 million loss)
and our return on capital employed was 21.0 per cent (2004 -
9.3 per cent).The Group's cash generation in the year was strong
and the Group ended the year with net cash of  2.16 million
(2004 - net debt of  2.35 million).
This outstanding performance was achieved while continuing to
invest for the future, with our research and development costs
increasing to 5.8 per cent of sales (2004 - 4.5 per cent).
Earnings and dividends per share
Adjusted earnings per share increased 173 per cent to 3.30 pence
(2004 - 1.21 pence) and basic earnings per share were
2.66 pence (2004 - 1.12 pence loss). As a result of our increased
profitability and stronger cash position, the Board is pleased to
recommend a significantly increased full-year dividend up by
150 per cent to 0.50 pence per share (2004 - 0.20 pence).
Business strategy
The security challenges around the world have resulted in an
increased demand for our marine CCTV , microwave and satellite
technologies that have military, public safety, security and disaster
recovery applications.The Group's strategy is to maintain its
strong position in existing professional television and marine
CCTV markets, whilst continuing to develop its sales channels
into the worldwide military, government and security markets to
provide organic growth.
We will continue to evolve our product offering to meet the
specific needs of these new growth markets, including IP enabled
communications and video surveillance systems.The new product
development programmes are expected to deliver market-leading
products with built-in upgrade capabilities to secure future
revenue streams and extended product life cycles.
Within the broadcast business the acquisition of Link Research
has secured the intellectual property rights that are used in both
MRC's and Advent's products.Towards the end of 2005 Link
launched its market leading low delay, high definition (HD),
wireless camera system.The transition to HD within professional
television markets will create future growth opportunities for the
Group beyond the US standard definition 2GHz re-channelisation
programme.
Employees
I would like to thank the Board, management and employees for
their outstanding contributions to a very successful year.
Outlook
We believe the Group is well placed to meet the growth
opportunities in its established professional television and marine
security markets. With current trading significantly ahead of last
year and a strong order book the outlook is very encouraging.
The Board looks forward to the future with confidence.
A L R Morton
Chairman
March 29, 2006 04 Vislink Annual Report 2005
MOVING FORWARD
 
MICROWAVE RADIO COMMUNICA TIONS
 
VISLINK CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE
 
MRC, the US broadcast business, is the leading
manufacturer of microwave systems for television
operations worldwide and a key supplier for 
US homeland security and military operations. 
MRC, located in Massachusetts, USA, has delivered
significant growth and increased profitability year 
on year since acquisition by the Group in 2000.
Hernis, the marine security business, designs and
manufactures specialist integrated CCTV systems 
for the oil and gas, and shipping industries and is the
market leader in the growing LNG (Liquefied Natural
Gas) vessels and terminals market. Hernis, located
in Norway, has been consistently profitable.
HERNIS SCAN SYSTEMS
  05 Vislink Annual Report 2005
ARE DRIVING OUR PERFORMANCE
 
OUR CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE
ADVENT COMMUNICA TIONS
 
LINK RESEARCH
 
Advent is part of the UK broadcast business and 
is market leader in the manufacture and integration
of satellite newsgathering systems and a proven
supplier of COTS equipment for tactical military
communications. Advent, located in the UK, 
is developing a product range to meet the 
growing demand for video and data in television 
and security markets.
Link acquired by the Group in 2005, is part of the 
UK broadcast business and a market leading
supplier of wireless camera systems used in live
television broadcasts. Link is also a successful
supplier of OEM encoder technology intrinsic to
many MRC and Advent products. Link, located in 
the UK, is a proven broadcast technology innovator . 06 Vislink Annual Report 2005
Vislink had record profits in 2005. We believe the Group 
is well placed to meet the growth opportunities in its
established professional television markets, including the
2GHz re-channelisation programme in the US. In addition, 
the Group is aligning its businesses to meet the challenges
and reap the full benefits of the emerging security and military
markets' use of its technologies. The Group will continue to
drive organic growth by developing significant market share
for existing and new products in target markets.
CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE
 
LinkXP wireless camera system in action.
(Image courtesy of Reuters/ Kieran Doherty)
MOVING FORWARD
  07 Vislink Annual Report 2005
The 2GHz re-channelisation programme in the US involves
over 1,000 broadcasters migrating from analogue to digital 
and changing their bandwidths to make room for new
advanced wireless services. MRC has a leading market share 
in providing the technology to re-equip these broadcasters.
2GHZ RE-CHANNELISA TION PROGRAMME
 
MRC portable transmitters are used
extensively by US broadcasters. 08 Vislink Annual Report 2005
Hernis had a record year for orders received and sales 
in 2005. A key driver for Hernis has been its success in 
winning business in the growing market for LNG (Liquefied
Natural Gas) vessels and loading terminals. Hernis also
continues to benefit from the growth in oil and gas exploration
and the introduction of the International Ship and Port Facility
Security (ISPS) Code.
RECORD REVENUES FOR HERNIS
 
Hernis camera systems operate 
in hazardous environments.
MOVING FORWARD
  09 Vislink Annual Report 2005
The Group is focused on the growing demand for its
technologies from emerging security and existing military
markets. With governments and businesses operating 
in a higher risk and more security-aware environment, 
we will continue to evolve to meet their market needs. 
This is being achieved with products such as IP-enabled
communications via satellite and digital microwave video
surveillance systems.
NEW MARKET OPPORTUNITIES
 
Advent's satellite communication systems
are used extensively by the UK military.
(Image courtesy of BAE Systems) 10 Vislink Annual Report 2005
The Group is committed to investment in research and
development in order to enhance our market share and
competitive advantage. Our goal is to develop products 
that drive future demand, such as Link's ground-breaking
ultra low delay High Definition TV (HDTV) wireless 
camera system which was used during the 2006 Winter
Olympic Games in Turin.
PRODUCT INNOVA TION
 
Printed circuit board inside Link's 
HD wireless camera system.
MOVING FORWARD
  11 Vislink Annual Report 2005
The acquisition of Link Research has been successful. 
The Group has been able to reap financial and organisational
benefits from the natural synergies with Link. These include
the intellectual property rights to technologies used in many 
of MRC's and Advent' s products and an enhanced research and
development capability. Link has also grown sales to global
customers for both its Standard Definition (SD) and High
Definition (HD) wireless camera systems.
SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITION
 
Link HD wireless camera system.