 02 Annual Report 2006
The directors present their report and the audited accounts of
the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Chairman's & Chief Executive's
Statement
We are delighted to report another year of strong progress for
The Vitec Group in revenue, profits and earnings per share due
to underlying growth in our markets and continued operational
improvements. Our efforts to find attractive acquisitions were
also successful, with four businesses joining the Group during
2006.
Results
2006 revenue grew 14%, to  222.3 million (2005:  194.9
million) of which around 11% was organic, reflecting Vitec's
strong positions in markets that are growing well and the
continued emphasis placed on new product development.
Constant currency organic growth was higher, at 12%, as the
lower US Dollar reduced reported figures. While the first half
saw particularly good progress, partly due to the rental
contracts for the Winter Olympics, it was pleasing that the
second half also showed significant growth over what had
been a very good second half in 2005. 
Imaging & Staging (previously Photographic) grew 24%, of
which 18% was organic, with constant currency organic
growth even stronger at 19%. This was driven by a buoyant
market for accessories for professional photographers and
cinematographers, with sales of lighting stands and bags also
performing well. We saw continued benefits from the
significant and ongoing growth in sales of digital SLR cameras
to the keen amateur segment, which generates sales of our
accessory products. Our distribution arm, Bogen Imaging,
which sells both Group and other premium third party
products, had a good year and was augmented in June by
bringing our Japanese distribution in-house. The Staging
Systems business continued to expand and in November
acquired Tomcat Global, bringing significant scale and
international reach to this part of the Company.
Broadcast Systems saw revenues increase at each business
unit. The ongoing investment by broadcasters in High
Definition TV is proving of benefit to us. Following an
excellent finish to 2005, overall sales growth in 2006 was
10%, of which 8% was organic (10% in constant currency),
with particularly good results in Camera Dynamics. Petrol,
acquired in January, performed very well during the year. At
the end of October we acquired Autoscript, whose advanced
teleprompting products we had already been distributing to
several countries.
Broadcast Services, operating principally in the USA, saw
revenue growth in US Dollars of some 1%, but flat revenue on
translation to pounds Sterling. This division benefited from a
successful set of contracts for the Winter Olympics and FIFA
World Cup.
With the further increase in revenue and continued progress
on operational improvement, Group profit before tax and
significant items* increased 31% to  24.1 million (2005:
 18.4 million). In constant currency terms profit before tax
and significant items* grew 35% and, excluding acquisitions,
the reported growth was 28% in pounds Sterling and 32% in
constant currency. 
The reported tax rate for the Group fell again by 2% to 40%
and as a result basic earnings per share before significant
items* rose to 35.3p (2005: 26.0p), an improvement of 36%.
After significant items* profit before tax was up 32% to  22.6
million (2005:  17.1 million) and earnings per share rose to
32.6p (2005: 22.9p before discontinued operations).
Cash generated from operations of  28.7 million (2005:
 29.8 million) remains strong. While working capital control
remains good, 2006 saw increased expenditure on
acquisitions and on capital projects, including the expansion
of Camera Dynamics' Costa Rican facility.
Strategy update and future development
The Group's strategy is summarised in the phrase 'Consolidate
- Leverage - Grow'. After an initial phase, during which
multiple locations and smaller business units were
consolidated into a divisional structure to give economies of
scale, the focus shifted to leveraging our skills and exploiting
our routes to market in pursuit of growth. While continuous
improvement activities are ongoing, the emphasis is on
generating growth through ongoing research and development.
We continue to review a number of potential acquisition
opportunities, some of which are material and would hope
that, as in the recent past, a number would complete in the
coming year.
We believe the consolidation of our individual brands into
stronger businesses provides a sound platform for future
growth - each of them has the scale to develop innovative
products and services and to deliver them effectively
worldwide.
We aim to grow ever closer to our end customer, providing
them with better tools and services to do their jobs, while at
the same time looking for complementary areas into which the
Group can expand and utilise its industry-leading expertise.
Research, development & engineering
An ongoing part of our success is due to continuous
innovation by Vitec's staff, developing both new products and
new services.
Within Imaging & Staging and Broadcast Systems the Group
spends approximately 4.5% of revenue on new product
development,  8.7 million in 2006 (2005:  7.8 million).
Vitec's businesses are known for the quality and reliability of
their products and there is an exciting pipeline of new ideas for
the future. During the year our businesses won a number of
awards for innovation, a sign that the Group's products remain
very relevant to our customers and a testament to the strength
Directors' Report
*Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the
underlying trading and financial performance achieved by the Group and in
making projections of future results. These items are quantified and explained
in the Financial Review and in Note 5. 03 The Vitec Group
of our R&D capability. Around 25% of sales in 2006 (2005:
19%) were derived from products launched in the last three
years.
Within Broadcast Services, continued innovation of its video
and audio services is as important. 2006 saw the launch of
the 'LTR' programme in the US. Bexel has traditionally offered
rentals - this Long Term Rental programme offers our
customers the advantages of a lease from a bank, but with the
benefits of additional service options from Bexel.
Acquisitions
During the year we made four acquisitions: Petrol broadcast
camera bags in January; Bogen Imaging Japan, a photographic
distribution business, trading from June; Autoscript prompting
systems in October; and in November Tomcat Global, the
leading manufacturer of aluminium truss and staging systems,
perhaps best known for their projects for the Rolling Stones
and U2 tours. These businesses are all complementary to the
existing activities of the Group and increase the range of
exciting products we can sell to our customers, often through
in-house distribution.  We also acquired a minority stake in
Media Numerics Ltd, which has launched a revolutionary
digital audio network for use at live events.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant post balance sheet events.
2006 dividend
With improved results and positive trends in our markets the
Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.1p per share,
resulting in a full year total of 16.5p (2005: 15.5p), an
increase of 6.5%. Subject to approval by shareholders, the
final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2007 to shareholders
on the register on 4 May 2007.
Using adjusted earnings per share before significant items*
the dividend is covered 2.1 times (2005: 1.7 times), whilst
after significant items* it is covered 2.0 times (2005: 1.5
times). 
Board changes
As previously announced, Sir David Bell will step down from
the Board following the Annual General Meeting in May 2007.
David joined the Board as a non-executive director in 1997
and  has provided us with ten years of excellent service and
wise counsel, helping us navigate the Group through a period
of considerable change. 
We are delighted that Maria Richter joined the Board as a
non-executive director on 28 February 2007. Maria's
background is in corporate finance in the US and she has
significant experience with deals involving companies, both in
the US and South America, which complements the skills of
the Board and will be of use as the Group expands.
Our thanks
The continued success of Vitec is due primarily to the
dedication and skill of all of our colleagues throughout the
world - the Group is now seeing the fruits of the efforts they
have expended over the past years, for which we thank them.
Outlook for 2007
2007 will not see any benefit from major events for our
broadcast businesses. However, given the increasing
importance of Vitec's photographic and live entertainment
businesses, combined with the contribution from the
acquisitions made in 2006 and further operational
improvements within Broadcast Systems, the Board looks
forward to further growth in 2007.
Gareth Rhys Williams
Chief Executive
Michael Harper
Chairman 