 2    Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
Chairman's statement
This year your Company has delivered adjusted operating profit of 
 11.8 billion and generated  5.7 billion of free cash flow before licence 
and spectrum payments, helped by foreign exchange movements and 
despite pressure on revenue in challenging economic circumstances. 
This has allowed us to buy back  1 billion of shares and pursue a 
progressive dividend policy. The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 5.20 pence, making a total for the year of 7.77 pence. 
Regrettably, the share price has declined by 17% since the beginning 
of the year, from 154.3 pence to 127.5 pence, but has nonetheless 
outperformed the FTSE100 which has declined by 24% over the same 
period. We have seen continuing growth in proportionate customer 
numbers to 303 million at year end, as well as growth in mobile voice 
minutes of use and particularly data services.
There is considerable evidence that the economic crisis has had a 
significant effect on the environment in which we operate, across our 
various markets. Inevitably, during rapid economic decline and rising 
unemployment, our customers - enterprise and consumer - are 
looking carefully for ways to reduce their expenditure. We have 
responded to the pressure on household and business expenses with 
pricing plans designed to address customers' needs.
So the telecommunications sector is not immune from the impact of 
the global recession but it has demonstrated a greater degree of 
resilience than certain other parts of the economy. The services we 
provide have assumed increasing importance in the day to day lives of 
our customers. We see this particularly in the way in which our services, 
particularly data services such as email and internet access, offer new 
flexibility in the way people lead their business and personal lives. 
When more stable economic conditions return, this new flexibility 
should also support more sustainable growth, unlocking important 
potential social and ecological benefits. 
In addition to the impact of the economic downturn, we continued to 
see pricing pressure lead to reductions of around 15% year on year in 
Europe. The period of rapid growth in new mobile customers in much 
of Europe is now over and we need to adjust our resources accordingly. 
We are well on our way to delivering the  1 billion reduction in 
operating costs to which we are committed. We will maintain this focus 
over the coming year and expect to deliver on our commitment  
by the following financial year. Sadly, this involves reducing our 
workforce but we nevertheless remain intent that Vodafone should 
continue to be a good place to work.
With prudent control of capital expenditure and reductions to 
operating expenditure, your Company is positioning itself to benefit 
from the re-invigoration of the economy when it comes, driven by 
strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position, and the diversity 
and geographic distribution of our customer base.
Your Company will continue to promote innovation in products and 
services across the range of our markets. For example, over 6 million 
people are now using the Vodafone Money Transfer system (branded 
M-PESA in Kenya) in Kenya, Tanzania and Afghanistan. In total, they 
are sending approximately US$200 million a month, mostly as small 
transactions of less than US$20. With over 4 billion people owning 
mobile handsets, we believe that for the majority of the world's 
population, mobile is likely to be the primary means of access to the 
internet. Higher speed networks in markets such as South Africa and 
Egypt increase the speed and range of internet access. Using 
economies of scale to work with handset manufacturers has 
allowed approximately eight million customers to gain access to 
communications through our ultra low cost handsets during the year, 
at the same time helping to make Vodafone the second largest 
handset brand in India.
In our developed markets, we will continue to enhance our customers' 
communication capability, with innovative products such as netbooks 
and laptops with embedded SIM cards to connect directly to higher 
speed mobile data networks. We continue to see very strong growth 
in mobile data usage, over 100% in our European markets. Our industry 
is undergoing an important change away from the predominance of 
voice traffic; within a few years most of the traffic on our European 
network will be data. We will promote services, particularly for small 
and medium enterprises, which increase workforce flexibility and 
enable greater efficiency and cost control.
The rapid economic decline has inevitably led to calls for greater 
regulation and some have questioned whether an open competition 
based economic model is sustainable. We continue to believe that it is.  
Your company is driven by strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position and a diverse and 
geographically spread customer base.
Sir John Bond 
Chairman 90
110
130
150
170
3400
May 2009 April 2008
  Vodafone Group   FTSE 100 index
4200
5000
5800
6600
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009    3
We have engaged with governments and policy-makers to urge them 
not to lose sight of the benefits in terms of investment, innovation and 
customer service which competition brings, of which the mobile 
industry is a leading example. We believe that a descent into 
protectionism and national preference would damage the prospects 
for the industry and for our ability to serve our customers' needs. 
Regulation and taxation of the telecommunications sector continues 
to have a significant impact on our business, our customers and our 
shareholders. We have worked to ensure that legislators and regulators 
appreciate the need to maintain a balance between the short term 
benefit to the consumer and the long term interest of the consumer 
in investment and innovation.
Your Board refreshed the Company's strategy in November 2008 and 
set strategic priorities which it believes will help your Company come 
through the economic crisis. The review did not lead to any radical 
change of direction but put renewed emphasis on operational 
performance, tight control of costs, free cash flow generation and a 
cautious approach to further footprint expansion. The past year has 
seen us expand into two new markets (Ghana and Qatar), slightly 
increase our shareholding in Polkomtel in Poland and attain majority 
control of our long-standing joint venture Vodacom in South Africa. 
An important step towards in-market consolidation came with the 
agreement to merge our operation in Australia with the fourth largest 
operator, Hutchison 3G Australia, underlining the value creation which 
such consolidation can bring.
The past year has seen our new Chief Executive, Vittorio Colao, who 
succeeded Arun Sarin at last year's AGM, put his deep knowledge of 
the mobile industry to good effect in steering your Company through 
economic recession. I am delighted that your Board has also been 
joined by a leading African businessman, Samuel Jonah. As we 
increase our interest in Africa, with the integration of Ghana 
Telecommunications into Vodafone, and our increased shareholding 
in Vodacom, Sam will bring invaluable insights to our work. Since 
the end of the financial year, Michel Combes, the Chief Executive of 
the Group's Europe Region, and Steve Pusey, the Group Chief 
Technology Officer, have been appointed to the Board with effect 
from 1 June. Their appointments will help ensure that there is a good 
balance on the Board of both executive and non-executive directors 
and I am confident that they will be major contributors to the future 
of your Company. 
Finally, your Board has continued to fund the work of The Vodafone 
Foundation, which is an important way of supporting the communities 
and societies where we make our profits. We invested  48 million in 
The Vodafone Foundation programmes during the 2009 financial year. 
The Vodafone Foundation and the network of national affiliates in our 
markets continue to achieve high recognition for the contribution 
they make. Highlights from The Vodafone Foundation programme 
over the past year include World of Difference, which helped 
individuals from 12 of our markets to take a year to work for the charity 
of their choice; a public health mobile data gathering system 
(episurveyor ) helping to prevent the spread of disease in 22 African 
countries; and the mHealth Alliance, announced in February 2009 
with the Rockefeller Foundation, which will promote the use of mobile 
technology in finding solutions to healthcare challenges.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Vodafone staff around 
the world for their tremendous work and commitment against a 
difficult economic background. 
Your Board is pleased with the resilience of the Company and confident 
that the Company will be well positioned for economic recovery when 
it comes.
Sir John Bond
Chairman
Executive summary
Vodafone - 13%  FTSE 100 -20% 
Total shareholder return April 2008 to May 2009
Vodafone share price +7 % vs FTSE 100 