 12
Vividas Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chairman's Statement
Chairman's
Statement
In the year to 30 June 2006, we have seen the development 
of what is essentially a new industry; video streaming. Vividas is
focused upon being a major player in that industry and our focus
has moved away from our traditional disc-related products into 
this new area. 
Substantial progress was made in developing the business, 
its products and technology as well as introducing a new business
model to facilitate scalability. The change in business model and
new products became effective at the end of the financial year
and as such we have reached an important point where these
major releases are now available and generating revenues. 
As discussed below, a number of these, including Vividas Live
Streaming and Managed Virtual Proxy, are real advances for 
the video streaming industry and have broad and immediate
applications. Resellers and Channel Partners that continue to 
be signed since the end of the financial year are expected to
generate revenues in the second half of the current financial year.
The Board believes that the Company has technologies and
products which can be successfully marketed worldwide, but to
ensure we have the capability to deliver the strategy and bring the
products that are now fully available to market, we are intending 
to raise new capital as discussed below.
Capital Raising and Licence Agreement
The Board is pleased to announce that the Company has today
conditionally placed 7 .65m new Ordinary shares at 40p per share
and warrants for 0.22m new Ordinary shares exercisable at 40p 
per share with JHG Investments Models S.L.U (JHG ) of Spain,
raising  3. 1m (gross), subject to approval by shareholders at an
Extraordinary General Meeting to be held on 1 4 November 2006.
JHG is a company incorporated in Spain and wholly owned by
Mr Javier Hidalgo. Mr Hidalgo is the son of the President of the
Globalia Corporacion Empresarial S.A and is its Director General.
Globalia is one of the largest, privately owned, family businesses
in Spain, with sales of  2.6 billion and net assets of  11 2m
operating primarily in the transport, travel and tourism sectors.
Globalia owns the largest private Spanish airline business, Air
Europa, and has other operations in the areas of airline ground
handling services worldwide, wholesale travel tour operators
including Travelplan, hotels, travel agencies and a car hire
business. JHG's current business operations include a 5. 1 4%
holding in Globalia and majority shareholdings in various
companies including, Globasol Inversiones, dedicated to the
promotion of solar energy plants in Murcia, Spain, fashion, event
and music businesses, as well as a commercial real estate business.
As part of the investment by JHG, a Newco will be incorporated 
in which Vividas will have a 33% interest and JHG a 67% interest.
Vividas will also have a licensing arrangement with the Newco 
to supply its technology whilst JHG will bring its extensive contacts
and experience to the Newco. 
The funding provides the platform required to deliver the Board's
growth plans. Further details of the issue will be sent in a circular 
to shareholders on 23 October 2006. The Board intends to
recommend acceptance of the proposal by shareholders at the
forthcoming EGM to approve the issue of share capital.
Results 
Group turnover increased by 72% to  962,000 with sales 
from streaming products increasing from  100,000 to  67 4,000.
This result was achieved despite the delay of three months to the
end of June 2006 in the release of the new Vivcast On-demand 
Encoders, which allow customers to create their own video in
Vividas format and quickly deploy video over the Internet. 
Operating loss before amortisation was  2,72 1,000 compared
with a loss of  1,247 ,000 for the prior year primarily due to the
expansion into North America and Europe announced last year
and continued product development. Net finance income was
 1 10,000 due to the cash inflow from the equity issue in March
2005. Loss before tax and amortisation increased to  2,6 1 1,000
and loss before tax was  2,771,000. Loss per share before
amortisation increased by 20% to 1 1.58 pence.
Business Review and Product Development
In the year, the cumulative number of streaming customers
increased from 60 to 205, with a significant increase in the final
quarter as products became commercially available. Prestigious
new customers included Honda and Village Cinemas in Australia,
Ford, PwC and Zurich in Europe, and Sony Pictures in North
America. Business was principally in the areas of corporate
communications and advertising but is now being complemented
with the new Live and Pay Per View (PPV ) products as well as
income from licensed encoders. 
Product development has continued at a significant rate; 
the Vivcast On-demand Encoder as well as the Live, PPV 
and High Definition streaming products have now been
commercially released. 
The Live product, which has been demonstrated to many 
large corporations, is now moving into trial periods, notably 
for one of USA's major TV networks, for the live streaming of
European Football Championship Qualifiers.  13
Vividas Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chairman's Statement
The utilisation by a major network is a very important milestone 
for Vividas and hopefully will attract other major broadcasters 
to adopt the technology. The advances that this product brings 
in both technology and cost savings to broadcasters and major
corporations is extremely attractive and the revenue potential 
of this product can now be clearly demonstrated.
Since year end, a further enhancement to our Corporate TV
product has been released. Called the Managed Virtual Proxy
(MVP ), the solution enables companies to deploy video over
their corporate networks simply and efficiently without having to
implement a multicasting system. The Vividas Web TV solution has
also been commercially released, which will enable broadcasters
to meet their TV over IP strategies. Vividas now has a full product
offering that, further supported by the increased funding, will
enable the Company to market and deliver a far superior product
range, both directly and through our Channel Partners, than any 
of our competitors.
Strategy
Since the announcement in March 2006 of the strategy to
develop sales relationships via Resellers and Channel Partners,
good progress has been made. This strategy has enabled the
Group to develop key partnerships enabling the partners and
systems integrators to give Vividas credibility as well as access 
to their established relationships. These partnerships further enable
Vividas to offer the full integrated solution which is often required
by larger organisations.
Resellers and Channel Partners have been signed in all three
regions in which the Group operates. Channel relationships have
been developed in 10 countries with the Group now working with 
1 5 partners. These relationships cover indirect sales to a number 
of market segments, namely corporate communications, viral
communications and entertainment services.
The other development in our business model was to licence our
encoding technology onto hardware, in the form of On-demand
and Live encoding suites, so as to allow customers to create and
distribute Vividas technology themselves over the Internet, quickly
and simply. This has gathered momentum since the encoding suites
became available with over 20 encoding suites now being
commercially used or in trials.
People
In August 2006, Paul Neville, who was appointed Group Finance
Director in July 2005, was appointed Chief Executive following
the resignation for personal reasons of Richard Collins. During the
year, the Group recruited several ex-Cable & Wireless employees,
all with significant senior management experience. 
Since 1 5 September 2006, my role has changed from Executive
Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman. It is the intention of the
Company to seek a new Non-Executive Chairman and, until 
this time, I will remain in this role; thereafter, I will remain a 
Non-Executive Director. Vernon Sankey, who was previously
Chairman designate, due to other commitments, will now not 
take over the role but will remain as a Non-Executive Director.
Outlook
Vividas now has a scalable business model and, subject to
shareholder approval, will have the required funding to meet 
the Board's growth targets and implement the strategy that has
been set out. Demand for, and acceptance of, Vividas' products 
is increasing rapidly, evidenced by the increasing number of trials
with large organisations including the Live trials with one of USA's
major TV networks, the signing of new licensing arrangements
since the year end and an increase in first quarter sales in the
current financial year. The Board looks forward to achieving a
much improved Group performance in the current year.
Neil Speakman
Non-Executive Chairman
1 7 October 2006