 7.51 7.77
8.31
7.77
7.51
2010 2009 2008
2    Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
Chairman's statement
Environment and performance
Against a difficult background, we generated  7.2 billion    
of free cash flow, up 26.5%.
Total dividends per share of 8.31 pence, up 7%; three year   
dividend per share growth target of at least 7% per annum. 
Original  1 billion cost programme completed a year ahead   
of schedule with a further  1 billion initiative underway. 
Continued strong investment in network capability    
to maintain and enhance the quality of service.
2009 saw the sharpest contraction in the world's economy for more 
than a generation. Unquestionably, this has been the most difficult 
economic environment in which your Company has ever operated. 
Against this background, I am very pleased to report that the Group 
delivered an adjusted operating profit of  11.5 billion (down 2.5%), 
and generated  7.2 billion of free cash flow (up 26.5%). The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 5.65 pence, making a total for the 
year of 8.31 pence per share (up 7%). The Board is also targeting to 
maintain growth in dividends per share at no less than 7% per annum 
for the next three years. This year's results have been achieved while 
maintaining the capital expenditure (up slightly at  6.2 billion) needed 
to serve our customers' growing demand for voice minutes and data 
services. The share price has increased by 6% since 1 April 2009, 
broadly in line with other major European telecommunications 
companies, but behind the increase in the FTSE 100. 
While the Group is not immune from the economic environment in 
which we operate, with our retail customers seeking to control their 
expenditure as much as possible and our business customers seeking 
to control cost, we have responded swiftly with cost reduction 
and efficiency programmes. On top of our original  1 billion cost 
programme, delivered a year ahead of plan, we have now committed 
to a further  1 billion cost programme by the 2013 financial year. With 
mobile voice prices continuing to decline in Europe by over 10% a year, 
tight cost control will remain a high priority in the future. 
The telecommunications sector as a whole has seen declining revenue 
through this period but we have not seen the extremely steep declines 
in revenue experienced by some other sectors of the economy - 
mobile communications remain an essential element in most people's 
lives. We see how our services are allowing people to lead their lives 
more efficiently and pleasurably, making better use of their time and 
opportunities. This has resulted in ever increasing demand, with voice 
minutes up by 22.3%
(*)
 and data revenue up by 19.3%
(*)
 across the 
Group. This additional demand on our networks means that we need 
to manage traffic to ensure both good service for our customers and 
appropriate returns for our shareholders from continued investment 
in those networks.
Innovation
Continued innovation in our products and services    
broadens and enhances our business portfolio.
The new Vodafone 360 service combines the benefits    
of mobile communications and the internet to bring 
your phone, email chat and social network contacts  
together in one place.
Innovation in the services we offer, and the expansion of those services 
into other sectors such as health care or communication between 
different types of machine - smart metering on energy grids or smart 
communications for delivery truck fleets - can make important 
contributions to our societies, lowering carbon emissions and 
enhancing lifestyles. This kind of innovation is important both for the 
wider benefits it brings but also because it broadens and enhances the 
base on which our business is built. We have now set-up separate 
health and machine-to-machine teams to ensure that we maximise 
these opportunities.
Your Company has also continued to innovate in the services we 
provide. This year has seen the launch of Vodafone 360, a service 
designed to help bridge the intersection between mobile 
communications and the internet making it easier to communicate 
with friends, colleagues and family from your mobile using social 
media or more traditional forms of electronic communication. The 
Vodafone Money Transfer system (branded M-PESA in Kenya and 
Tanzania) is available in three countries with 13 million customers 
transferring US$3.6 billion during the 2010 financial year. We expect 
to roll-out the service to further markets later this year. We recently 
launched two of the world's most inexpensive handsets - for example 
the Vodafone 150 retails in most markets at unsubsidised prices below 
US $15 - and we are working on low cost handsets which will give 
access to the internet. 
Your Company continues to deliver strong cash generation, is well positioned to benefit from 
economic recovery and looks to the future with confidence.
Sir John Bond Chairman
Dividends per share
(Pence)   FTSE 100 index   Vodafone Group 
May 2010 April 2009
100
120
140
160
180
3000
3750
4500
5250
6000
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010    3
Geographic diversity
Wide portfolio of operations including developed and   
emerging markets. 
In emerging markets growth prospects remain positive.   
We now have over 100 million customers in our key 
Indian market. 
One of the benefits of our broad spread of operations in both 
developed and emerging markets is the diversification of risk that this 
allows. The Board keeps a close watch on this portfolio of investments, 
particularly those where we do not exercise management control. In 
Verizon Wireless we have an outstanding asset whose value has 
increased substantially over recent years, and SFR has secured a 
strong market position and provided good dividends. The Board 
reviews these investments regularly and will remain focused upon the 
best way of realising maximum shareholder value. 
The impairment of our investment in Vodafone Essar in India was a 
major disappointment to the Board. It results from an intense price war, 
triggered by the unprecedented and unforeseeable entry of six new 
competitors into the Indian market. Our operational performance in 
India however remains strong and we remain confident in the long-
term prospects for the Indian market. We recently passed a very 
important milestone, with Vodafone Essar now having more than 100 
million customers - one of only five national mobile operators in the 
world to have reached this scale, reflecting strong growth from 28 
million customers when we acquired control of Vodafone Essar in May 
2007. Elsewhere in the emerging markets, the operational turnaround 
of our company in Turkey has yielded very positive results and we have 
seen good progress in Ghana.
Your Board
This year we conducted an evaluation on the effectiveness of the 
Board and its Committees aided by the external advisors MWM 
Consulting. They concluded that the Board was effective, had the right 
composition and skills and was generally performing well. More detail 
is contained at page 48 of this report.
Simon Murray, who has been a non-executive Director since July 2007, 
has decided to step down from the Board after this year's AGM. 
His knowledge of telecommunications, entrepreneurial spirit, and 
experience of the Asia Pacific region have been great assets to the 
Board, and I am grateful for the contribution he has made.
The Vodafone Foundation
The Vodafone Foundation supports communities and societies    
in the countries in which we operate.
Vodafone invested a total of  42 million in foundation   
programmes and social causes.
We have continued to fund the work of the Vodafone Foundation. 
Through the Vodafone Foundation and our network of national affiliate 
foundations we support communities and societies in the countries in 
which we operate. In this financial year we invested a total of  42 million 
in foundation programmes and social causes, and our World of 
Difference programme enabled 604 people to take paid time to work 
for a charitable purpose of their choice in their own community or in a 
developing country. Across the Group we have also put in place 
mechanisms to make it easy for our customers to give money to support 
charitable appeals following disasters. After the Haiti earthquake, 
Vodafone foundations donated  0.3 million to the emergency relief and 
reconstruction effort, and we helped our customers in 14 countries to 
give a total of  4.7 million by text message.
Summary
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Vodafone staff around 
the world for the great efforts they have made in the past year in such 
challenging economic conditions. Vodafone would not have been able 
to deliver these results without the tremendous effort of the team.
The Board is heartened by your Company's strong results especially in 
the face of such a sharp economic downturn. It believes that the Group 
is well positioned to benefit from economic recovery and looks to the 
future with confidence.
Sir John Bond
Chairman
Executive summary
Vodafone +13%   FTSE 100 +39% 
Total shareholder return April 2009 to May 2010
Vodafone share price vs FTSE 100 
Proportionate mobile 
customers
34 1 .1 m
up 12.7%