 Piletec
This operating unit offers solutions to the piling industry.  
Now in its third year, Piletec has gained a strong market following and
this year has shown healthy revenue growth whilst maintaining margins.
In order to meet the increased activity levels, the business moved to
larger premises and expanded the mobile workforce to support our high
level of service. 
The product range was only marginally enlarged, but a new product
development strategy was implemented which should bear fruit during
the next fiscal year, further enhancing prospects.
Stopper Specialists 
This relatively small business, formerly reported through Safeforce, was
placed under the Groundforce umbrella in April 2003. The products and
the customer base are closely aligned to the shoring industry and the
cross-selling opportunities are therefore significant. The business
delivered a strong revenue growth and a solid profit for the year.  In
March 2004, the hire fleet was significantly enlarged through the
acquisition of the Eve Shorco assets which included some stoppers.
These products will be utilised in the planned expansion programme that
will see a wider distribution and service network being created to cope
with the growing demand.
Survey Technology 
Our existing business, Laser & Survey, acquired in October 2002, was
hived out of Safeforce in April 2003 and traded with reasonable success
from one outlet in Yorkshire for much of the year. However, the
opportunity to acquire the rental fleet and sales network of Japanese
manufacturer, Sokkia was both timely and a good strategic fit. The
purchase in February 2004 for  1.15m, comprised the Sokkia business
assets and employees trading from branches in the North West,
Midlands and South East.
In September 2003, the acquisition of Indepth Hire, for  0.45m was
completed. This small business based in Staffordshire is engaged in the
hire, servicing and calibration of clean water management equipment,
such as data loggers, ultrasonic flow meters and leakage detectors to
water companies, consultants and environmental agencies.
GROUNDFORCE
Rental and sales of excavation support systems to the water, civil
engineering and construction industries, plus three specialist offerings:
Piletec - pile driving and breaking equipment; Stopper Specialists - pipe
integrity testing products; Survey T echnology - surveying and water flow
measurement instruments.
Turnover  19.3m (2003:  12.2m)
Operating Profit  5.3m (2003:  2.7m)
Investment in rental fleet  1.8m (2003:  1.4m)
The strategy embarked upon in March 2003 was twofold. Firstly, the
integration of Shoring, Stopper Specialists, Piletec and Laser & Survey
within the Groundforce portfolio, aimed at delivering organic growth
derived from increased penetration of the common customer base.
Secondly, pursuing acquisition opportunities to strengthen market share.
The management team was therefore reorganised and strengthened to
meet the challenges of this strategy.
Shoring
The core business of Groundforce continues to be the design and
supply of shoring equipment to provide safe working conditions to
excavations. These applications range from street utility work to large
clear span bracing requiring capacities in excess of 250 tonnes.
This element saw the acquisition of two competitors; T rench Shore in July
2003 for  2.7m and Eve Shorco in March 2004 for  2.15m. Divisional
activity therefore revolved around the retention of the acquired revenues
and the integration of the people and systems. As a consequence of
these acquisitions the core business has been enhanced by the
improved geographic coverage and distribution, particularly in the South
East and Midlands. In addition, a wider product offering has been
created and further technical know-how acquired. These transactions
reinforced Groundforce's market leading position in shoring.
Aside from these acquisitions the existing business delivered an
excellent performance in the year.  Ongoing strong demand from the
civil engineering and infrastructure sectors was assisted by significant
activity arising from the Water Authorities' asset management plan
(AMP3) and specific projects at Heathrow Terminal 5 and the Channel
Tunnel Rail Link. 
page seven page eight
AIRPAC OILFIELD SERVICES
Servicing the international oil and gas exploration and development
markets with specialist air compressors and associated equipment.
Turnover  3.7m (2003:  4.1m excluding
onshore turnover)
Operating Profit  0.5m (2003:  0.4m)
Investment in rental fleet  0.5m (2003:  0.9m)
This year was our first as a purely oil and gas industry service business
following the disposal of our onshore compressor rental fleet assets last
year.  The improvement in profit partially reflects this divestment of non-
core activities.
Airpac Oilfield Services provides specialist compressed air, on-site
steam and nitrogen generation services to the oil and gas exploration
markets.  The equipment and associated support are mobilised for a
number of different segments within the customer bases including well
testing, structural fabric maintenance, pipeline dewatering and
underbalanced drilling.
Our cornerstone North Sea region has enjoyed good levels of activity
and we continue to seek beneficial supply relationships with our
principal clients.  The new divisional Head Office facility in Aberdeen
became fully operational in the year, better enabling us to provide the
level of support and quality demanded by our customers.
Our base in Singapore, established in mid 2002, has quickly
developed a strong position in supporting the well testing segment
in South East Asia.  We have also supplied large equipment spreads
and operational personnel for the pipeline dewatering and drying
phases of several prestigious deepwater oil and gas developments.
In the past year we have supported requirements in more than ten
countries in the Asia and Pacific regions.  Our success in the well
test sector has seen us significantly grow our fleet of steam
generators through new investment. Project related revenues
through Singapore did however, fall short of levels experienced in
the prior year.
We have implemented a number of initiatives aimed at building our
network and further exploiting the potential we believe exists in the Asia
and Pacific regions.  With a growing international reputation, the
business is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in other
global markets.
David McMillan
Director - Airpac Oilfield Services
HIRE STATION
Rental and sale of tools, small equipment and allied services to industry,
construction and homeowners, plus three specialist offerings: Safeforce
- safety and environmental products, Lifting Point - materials handling
and lifting gear hire, One Call - national call centre for tool hire.
Turnover  36.5m (2003:  36.2m)
Operating (Loss)/Profit  (0.4)m (2003:  0.9m)
Investment in rental fleet  4.2m (2003:  6.2m)
The year ended 31 March 2004 overall produced a disappointing result
for Hire Station. Included within the results were over  0.5m of costs
associated with management changes and depot reorganisation.
Since joining the business as Managing Director in early December
2003, I have made a number of changes to the business which seek
to address the underperforming areas as well as providing
continuing support to those businesses that are operating a
successful trading model.
Laser & Survey, Indepth and the Sokkia businesses have been brought
together under common management with the creation of Survey
Technology. The name better reflects the quality, size, market position
and aspirations for the business and the amalgamation has provided a
solid platform to develop a national offering in this field. The excellent
product knowledge and technology held within these acquisitions is
reflected by the high profile customer base, a number of whom entrust
asset management contracts to the business.  Opportunities exist to
grow revenues from the wider geographical network, whilst maximising
the benefits of acquiring a manufacturer's sales and rental business.
Prospects
Next year, each of the business streams will require varied strategies to
either grow or improve. Within core shoring, delivery of synergistic
savings, finessing revenue streams and retaining market share through
customer growth plans will be important. Elsewhere, customer
acquisition strategies, improved geographic distribution, aligned to
wider, but specific, product offerings will be key to the sustainable
growth of all the allied businesses. 
The management within Groundforce is experienced not only in their
markets but also in delivering a successful change process;
Groundforce is therefore well positioned to achieve its expectations and
aspirations for the coming year.
David Williams
Managing Director - Groundforce
UK FORKS
Hire of rough terrain material handling equipment and accessories to the
housebuilding and construction industry.
Turnover  12.4m (2003:  10.8m)
Operating Profit  1.3m (2003:  1.3m)
Investment in rental fleet  2.5m (2003:  2.9m)
UK Forks is the UK's leading specialist hirer of telescopic handlers and
associated equipment.  The business operates in a highly competitive
sector and, in spite of strong price competition, delivered another
satisfactory result.  Whilst margins reduced in the period the key return
on capital employed measure improved further to 12.6% in the year.
Operating with a fleet of over 1,000 machines, UK Forks differentiates
itself from its peers, with the operation of a centralised hire desk which
optimises fleet management and therefore utilisation of product.  Further
progress was made in increasing average hire periods which now run at
approximately 19 weeks.
A feature of this year has been the undertaking of third party fleet
management on behalf of a major house builder, which served to
establish a viable additional income stream as well as to provide an
excellent platform for future business with this key account.
Meanwhile, the core business continued to make good progress in
growing its income, from both casual and contract hire, demonstrating
that customers are receptive to the UK Forks business model of clear
product focus, national availability, central call handling and high quality
product and service.
The widely reported desire by the Government to see substantially
increased housing supply, coupled with continuing optimism among
house builders would suggest healthy prospects for the future, from
which UK Forks is well placed to capitalise.
Rob Coxon
Director - UK Forks
Business Review