 chairman's statement
plan. The first full year contribution from the Mechplant shoring business
following its acquisition in October 2001 further supported this excellent
profit result. In terms of year on year comparisons, it should be
remembered that the prior year contained the foot and mouth epidemic
which severely disrupted the timing of projects in many rural areas.
Following the transfer into Hire Station of the safety rental activity of
Safeforce, the remaining two elements of Safeforce, which are Stopper
Specialists and Laser & Survey, will in future be managed by Groundforce.
This will give Groundforce customers access to three additional services
allied to the mainstream shoring systems business; the rental of specialist
pile driving and pile breaking equipment through Piletec; the rental of pipe
testing and water flow management systems through Stopper Specialists
and the rental and sale of construction and civil engineering laser levelling
and aligning equipment through Laser & Survey.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  1.4m (2002:  1.5m).
UK Forks
Hire of rough terrain, material handling equipment and accessories to the
house building and construction industry.
UK Forks had a relatively flat, but nevertheless satisfactory, year. Turnover
rose marginally to  10.6m (2002:  10.1m) generating operating profits of
 1.3m (2002:  1.3m).
We believe considerable further scope exists to develop long term
supply relationships, particularly with our house building customers,
although we recognise that these arrangements may take some time
to yield results.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  2.9m (2002:  2.3m).
I am pleased to be able to report another very satisfactory year for the Group in which we have again
achieved significant improvements against our key measures of profit growth, earnings per share and return
on capital employed.
Profits before tax rose 21% to  7.5m (2002:  6.2m) on turnover ahead by
13% at  75.5m (2002:  66.8m). Earnings per share improved 21% to
12.36p per share and return on capital employed improved to 14.4%, an
increase of 19%.
The Board is recommending a 7% increase in the final dividend to 3.0p
per share, making a total dividend for the year of 4.5p (2002: 4.2p). The
dividend is payable on 1 October 2003 to shareholders registered as of
5 September 2003.
Our strong cash flow has enabled us to reduce borrowings to  6.1m
(2002:  10.6m) at the year end, representing gearing of 12%, whilst at
the same time investing  14.1m (2002:  12.0m) in expanding and
renewing our rental fleets.
SERVICES
Services is made up of four specialist businesses, Groundforce, UK Forks,
Airpac Oilfield Services and Safeforce, each focused on its own target
market.
Operating profit rose 77% to  4.6m (2002:  2.6m) on turnover 15% ahead
at  29.4m.
Groundforce
Rental, sale and design of shoring systems and allied services to the water,
civil engineering and construction industries.
An excellent result with operating profits up 109% at  2.3m (2002:  1.1m),
driven by turnover growth of 31% at  11.3m (2002:  8.6m).
Healthy demand from the general market was augmented by improved
activity from the water industry's AMP3 five year asset management
05 06
Despite these disappointing results, we remain confident that Hire
Station is capable of delivering competitive margins although this will
only be achieved progressively.
There are also a number of exciting developments within Hire Station.
These include the extension of the One Call Warehouse concept into
Birmingham and a second location in London, and the launch of a new
Safeforce @ Hire Station business. The safety equipment rental activities
previously conducted within Services will be consolidated into Hire
Station Safeforce in the current financial year. We believe additional
market penetration can be achieved utilising the resources and locations
of the Hire Station infrastructure to bring service delivery closer to the
customer. Safeforce now operates out of six locations and we plan to
expand Safeforce further during the current year. Lifting Point, our
specialist materials handling and lifting gear hire business, grew its
network to eleven outlets and will in future operate as a distinct business.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  5.9m (2002:  5.1m).
TORRENT TRACKSIDE
Hire of portable track repair and renewals equipment, trackside lighting
and related support services to rail infrastructure maintenance companies.
Torrent had an excellent year with a 72% increase in operating profit to
 3.1m (2002:  1.8m) on revenues ahead by 38% at  11.3m (2002:  8.2m).
This exceptional performance was partially due to demand from several
major projects, including the Channel Tunnel Rail Link, but was for the
most part a result of Torrent's long term policy of investing in skills,
systems and rental assets in anticipation of future rail infrastructure
investment.
From its seven locations, Torrent provides true 24 hour x 365 day service
and national coverage to meet the very particular and demanding
working patterns of the rail industry.
We anticipate that the current financial year will be once again successful
for Torrent but would not expect a repetition of the exceptional levels of
year on year growth that we have seen this year.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  2.7m (2002:  1.8m).
OUTLOOK
The current economic outlook contains a number of uncertainties, but
the breadth of business sectors within which we operate, some with
strong safety and regulatory elements, gives us a degree of resilience to
individual economic cycles. In addition, the Group's low gearing gives us
defensive strength in the event of a downturn, but equally the capability
to exploit growth opportunities as they are identified.
These strengths, together with the Group's improved financial
performance, give us reason to view the new financial year with
cautious optimism.
Jeremy Pilkington
Chairman & Chief Executive
9 June 2003
Safeforce
Specialists in the hire, sale and servicing of safety and related equipment.
Safeforce had a very successful year, aided in part by maiden
contributions from the acquisitions in October 2002 of Stopper
Specialists and Laser & Survey.
Operating profits rose 67% to  0.5m (2002:  0.3m) on turnover ahead by
60% at  2.4m (2002:  1.5m).
As referred to elsewhere, with effect from April 2003 Safeforce has been
split into its three constituent parts. Its safety business has transferred
into Hire Station and the stopper and laser rental businesses will come
under the management of Groundforce where there is a close and
natural fit with a shared civil engineering customer base.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  0.3m (2002:  0.2m).
Airpac Oilfield Services
Servicing the international oil and gas exploration and development
markets with specialist air compressors and associated equipment.
This has proven to be a very significant year for Airpac with the disposal
of its non-core, onshore activity for  1.8m during the second half of the
financial year. The rationalisation and exit costs associated with this
divestment are reflected in these results. Airpac, renamed Airpac Oilfield
Services, is now a pure oil and gas exploration and development support
business and will be better able to expand its scope of operation beyond
its established North Sea market.
Turnover fell to  5.1m (2002:  5.4m) as we progressively reduced fleet in
anticipation of a complete exit from onshore activity. Operating profits
improved to  0.4m from a loss of  0.1m in the previous year reflecting the
costs taken out of the onshore business and the growing contribution
from the retained oil and gas services business.
During the year we established an operational support base in Singapore
to improve the service to our customers in the South East Asian market
which is now representing an increasing proportion of our activity.
Investment in rental fleet totalled  0.9m (2002:  1.1m).
HIRE ST ATION
Rental and sale of tools, small equipment and allied services to industry,
construction and homeowners, plus three specialist offerings : Safeforce -
hire and sale of safety and survey products, asset management and
training services; Lifting Point - materials handling and lifting gear hire;
One Call - national call centre for tool hire.
During the year, the new management team at Hire Station has
implemented significant restructuring of the business designed to
improve sales volume and margin, including the reorganisation of the
business into three geographical regions from four together with the
elimination of a regional head office. The full benefit of these measures
will only be felt in full during the course of the current financial year. In
addition, weak trading, particularly in the Greater London and South
West regions, was exacerbated by the start-up costs of new branch
openings and product launches. Turnover rose to  34.8m (2002:  33.0m)
but operating profit fell to  0.6m (2002:  2.8m).
chairman's statement