 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
For the year to 30 June 2003, your company reports a pre tax
profit of  1.9m (2002:  3.8m) on work done of  61.3m (2002:
 52.1m).  Basic earnings per share were 5.2p (2002: 10.1p)
and net assets per share increased to 93p (2002: 89p).
The Board is recommending a maintained final dividend of 3.0p
which, with a maintained interim dividend of 1.9p, paid on 24
April 2003, makes a total of 4.9p for the year (2002: 4.9p).  The
final dividend will be paid on 10 December 2003 to
shareholders on the register on 14 November 2003.
Against a background of more difficult trading conditions, our
strategy of diversification has enabled the Group to expand into
new markets and to complete a record volume of work during
the year.  The recently acquired Aspen Group has performed in
line with expectations and has delivered a substantial increase
in the Group's public sector workload and the addition of AHW
in Australia has created new business opportunities in the Asia
Pacific Region.
As I reported at the interim stage, there has been a general
reduction in the number of new commissions available in the
commercial property sector.  Major urban regeneration projects
and public sector appointments have largely offset this shortfall.
In common with all service providers the Group's insurance
costs have risen sharply accompanied by higher National
Insurance charges.  These cost increases are currently having
to be absorbed by the Group, which has resulted in lower
profitability during this year.
GROUP ACTIVITIES
Multi-discipline consultancy services have been provided for
some of the UK's most prestigious projects.  During the year,
Paternoster Square in the City of London, the HM Treasury
Building (Phase I) in Whitehall and Bullring in Birmingham have
been successfully completed.  Major projects in progress
include White City in West London, HM Treasury Building
(Phase II), Spinningfields in Manchester and 229-247 Regent
Street in London.  The Group's order book of future work
includes a number of long term major urban regeneration
projects including projects in Croydon, Bristol, Peterborough,
Leeds, Leicester, Liverpool and Glasgow.  These projects are
expected to provide work for the Group up to the end of 2009.
During the year Waterman Burrow Crocker, an amalgamation
of Aspen Consulting Group and Waterman's civil engineering
teams, has handled the Group's civil engineering consultancy
work. Current projects include White City (London
Underground), station refurbishments for Network Rail,
Oakham bypass for Rutland CC and a new deep berth at the
Port of Bristol. Waterman Aspen, the Group's public sector
outsourcing specialist, employs 200 staff, seconded to
government agencies and local authorities.
Waterman Gore, the Group's mechanical and electrical
consultancy, has had a successful year.  Major projects in 
progress include HM Treasury building (Phase II) and White
City, London.   New industry leading levels of service are being
provided for projects using an innovative 3D modelling system
for the design, procurement and installation of building
services.  These projects include the K2 building, St Katharine's
Estate, London and Admiral's Park in Kent.
In Ireland, the Group's Dublin based consultancy, John Moylan
& Associates successfully completed a record volume of work.
In the Dublin area progress has been made on a number of
large projects at Ballymun, Pelletstown, Balbriggan and
Dundrum.  Recent appointments include The Grange in north
Dublin, a substantial project which is expected to be built in
phases over a ten year period.  A new office has been opened
in Swords, north Dublin, to assist with the increased workload
in the area.
Waterman International has expanded its operations with the
acquisitions in Australia and Belgium.  During the year, a
number of projects were completed including Kursky retail
centre and Reuters offices, Moscow; the Metropolitan Centre,
Warsaw; CERN, Geneva and Hutchison 3G mobile network
rollout, Australia.  In Russia a number of new commissions
have been secured in St Petersburg.  In Australia, Waterman
AHW has performed in line with expectations in its first year as
part of the Group.
The Group continues to work as a consultant to a number of
PFI consortia, under the government's private finance
schemes.  Projects include the HM Treasury Building, Harrow
Schools and the MOD main building in Whitehall.  Further PFI
bids are in progress.
STRATEGY
The Group's strategy is to provide a wider range of innovative
services to clients, accompanied by investment in regions and
sectors which will achieve long term growth and profitability.  A
new range of services based on sustainability of new projects
is being provided to clients, placing increasing importance on
the  green issues' affecting all new developments.  Recent
investments in Australia and Belgium have increased the
Group's international presence and further expansion is
planned for the future.
ACQUISITIONS
On 1 July 2002, Waterman acquired a 60% interest in AHW
Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd, a mechanical and electrical 
consulting engineer, based in Sydney, Australia.  A new
company, Waterman International (Asia) Pty Ltd, 60% of which
is owned by Waterman and 40% by the key management of
AHW, has been formed to develop new business in the Asia
Pacific region.  Waterman has options to acquire the remaining
40% of the business in the future.  New projects secured
during the year include upgrades to Concord Hospital and a 44
storey apartment tower in Sydney.
4 Immediately after the end of the financial year, on 1 July 2003,
Waterman acquired 100% of the share capital of Technical
Computer Applications NV (TCA), a civil and structural
consulting engineer based in Brussels, Belgium with a branch
office in Bucharest, Romania.  The company, now re-named
Waterman TCA, is a high quality engineering consultancy
working on a number of large and prestigious projects for
leading Belgian and international development companies.
Their projects include The Corporate Village, a 200,000m
2
business park near Brussels airport and Espace Kirchberg, an
80,000m
2
office development in Luxembourg.  As part of
Waterman Group, TCA will provide access to the European
market for multi-disciplinary engineering services and its
established base in Romania will provide new opportunities in
the EU accession countries, where the construction markets
are expected to grow strongly in the future.
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
As a service business providing consultancy advice to its
clients, Waterman's most valuable asset is its staff.  The level 
of repeat business from our clients is a testament to their
professionalism and desire to deliver the highest quality of 
service.
The Group rewards its staff through a range of salary and
benefit packages including an appropriation of shares from pre-
tax profits.  The Share Incentive Plan introduced in 2002
replaced the earlier profit sharing scheme and will enable a
range of new share based opportunities to be introduced at a
suitable time.  A share option scheme operates to provide
senior management with the opportunity to acquire shares in
the Group.
I would like to thank all members of staff for their efforts over
the last year and welcome new staff who have joined the 
Group, AHW in Australia and TCA in Belgium and Romania in
particular.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS
On 6 January 2003 the Board appointed Craig Beresford and
Nicholas Taylor as new executive directors and John Archibald
as a new non-executive director.  David Horne, who has served
as a non-executive director since January 1991, has indicated
his intention to retire at our Annual General Meeting on 27
November 2003.  I would like to thank David for his valuable
advice and support over a long period of time, during which
there has been a considerable increase in the volume and
diversity of the Group's activities.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
The Group has maintained a strong long term order book of
future work in a number of different sectors and locations.  The
lower volume of commercial work has been offset largely by
mixed use urban regeneration projects together with public
sector consultancy and outsourcing which now represents 30%
of the Group's business, following the acquisition of the Aspen
Group in December 2001.  The Group's operations in the
environmental sector are currently expanding due to increased
client demand.  There are encouraging prospects for business
outside the UK, in Ireland, Australia, Russia and Belgium,
where the local economies are supporting high levels of
construction activity.
The margin pressures I reported last year remain in place,
however the Board is introducing measures aimed at improving
our operating margins in future years.  In the long term we
expect to benefit from the increased diversity of the Group,
which has resulted in less dependence on any one sector of
the market.  The forward order book has considerable depth,
with a number of large long term contracts secured.  Our
balance sheet remains strong and we are committed to
developing our business in the future from a position of
strength.
W Mathieson
Chairman
27 October 2003
5
Image:
Spinningfields, Manchester
Image:
HM Treasury Building, London