 In addition to my official and therefore more formal Chairman's Statement covering the year to 
30 June 2007, the Board and I wanted to explain in more detail what has happened financially 
to the Club over the five year period since my appointment as Chairman of Watford Leisure PLC 
(the Company ) on 25 September 2002. We believe that having a broader understanding of 
the Company's finances is both necessary and in-keeping with our stated approach of being as 
communicative as possible. 
When I moved up from director of the Watford AFC Limited (the Club ) to Chairman of the 
Company our financial position was without exaggeration parlous. In July 2002 we had sold 
and leased back the stadium at Vicarage Road and the day before my appointment we had 
announced in an update to the Stock Exchange that we needed to raise at least  9.5 million to 
avoid administration. I and other members of the Club and Company boards had given verbal 
commitments to take equity in a future fundraising and then on 26 September 2002 the majority of 
professional players and more highly paid members of staff agreed to a 12 per cent. pay deferral.  
In November 2002 I subscribed along with my fellow directors sufficient funds to allow the 
fundraising to proceed.  In December 2002, at the suggestion of our advisers, I was joined on 
the Board by Andy Wilson who, with his invaluable financial experience, has since contributed 
significantly to the Club.
What became apparent through 2003 was that as a result of ongoing problems, not least the 
settlement we reached with Gianluca Vialli in July of that year, we needed to raise further funds to 
maintain the solvency of the Club. As a consequence in March 2004 we raised a further  5.25m 
by way of a placing of equity and convertible loan stock, to which I and Lord Ashcroft subscribed 
further funds and we welcomed Jimmy and Vince Russo as substantial shareholders and 
directors of the Company. 
In June 2004 we were joined by Mark Ashton who became the CEO of the Club. As many of you 
will be aware I have regarded this appointment as significant as that of Aidy Boothroyd for the 
future success of the Club. Mark's appointment was followed in August 2004 by the re-purchase 
of Vicarage Road for  7.6m.
As a Board we set about re-building the Club and the business model from top to bottom in order 
to achieve the objectives that I set out in my Chairman's report in 2002/3. These objectives were:
 1 Achieve promotion to the Premier League
 2 Repay wages owed to players and other staff
 3 Return value to our shareholders
 4 Buy back the freehold of the Vicarage Road stadium
 5 Develop a new East Stand
Chaiman's Letter
Graham Simpson
WatFoRd leisuRe PlC 
RePoR t and aCCounts 
2007
02
www.watfordleisureplc.com At this point I would like to direct your attention to the table below. This sets out the key figures 
over my five year tenure as Chairman and the results I reported for the year ended June 2002 (a 
period when I was not Chairman, albeit a director of the Club).
*excluding debt waiver
What is starkly set out in this table is that in the five years of my tenure as Chairman we have 
operated for four of them on a turnover that is significantly out of line with the cost base and 
that is insufficient to sustain the Club in the upper reaches of the Championship let alone the 
Premiership. As you can see during the six years covered, cash raised from shareholders 
effectively funded the losses of the Club. In addition the increase in net debt to a peak of  8.5m 
roughly corresponded to our major capital investment during that period - the re-purchase of 
Vicarage Road.
However we began to turn a corner in 2004 with the operating loss cut to  2.5m.  Player salaries 
were pared to the bone and it is of great credit to Ray Lewington that he achieved the success 
he did in the Cups on such a constrained basis. As a Board we kept faith with the players and 
ensured that the proceeds of the 2004/5 cup run were used to payback in full all of the salary 
deferrals entered into in 2002.
Because we could see our way to eliminating the trading loss the Board felt comfortable investing 
in players when Aidy Boothroyd arrived. Nevertheless both Marlon King and Darius Henderson 
would not have joined us without further support from me and the Russos in the form of increased 
shareholder loans.
At this stage I would like to re-iterate the gratitude we, as a Club, have to both Jimmy and Vince 
Russo for their contribution to Watford. Our disagreements have been the subject of much media 
comment but I have no hesitation in placing on record the appreciation I, as Chairman, had for 
their whole-hearted support for the Club.
2001/2
 m
2002/3
 m
2003/4
 m
2004/5
 m
2005/6
 m
2006/7
 m
CUMULATIVE 
TOTAL  m
Turnover 16.8 8.7 8.5 8.5 8.5 29.9
Operating (loss)/profit  
before player trading
(4.6) (7.6) (3.9) (2.5) (6.6) 3.1
(Loss)/profit after tax (7.2) (10.3) (4.5) (2.1) (5.6) 8.0 (21.7)
Net debt (1.4) (6.9) (7.3) (8.5) (5.7) (5.6)
Equity raised* 5.5 4.8 4.2 1.9 5.2 - 21.6
www.watfordleisureplc.com www.watfordleisureplc.com
WatFoRd leisuRe PlC 
RePoR t and aCCounts 
2007
03 Hence we arrived at the start of the 2005/6 season in good shape - knowing that we still needed 
to eliminate the trading loss but also convinced that we knew how to do it and that given the 
confidence of Aidy Boothroyd we had a shot at the Premiership. By mid year it was clear that 
promotion was a realistic possibility but the Company needed further investment to cover trading 
losses and to support its effort for promotion and that, if we were to prepare the Club for the 
Premiership, significant investment was needed on the support side. Hence in 2005/6 the Board 
agreed to fund these areas. This was a calculated decision backed up by the equity placement in 
March of that year of  6.2m to Lord Ashcroft, the Russos and myself which meant that we could 
 afford' not to be promoted - if that is the right way of putting things. I should also say that the loss 
for 2005/6 contains a number of bonus payments to the football side that were  triggered by our 
promotion. On a like for like basis ignoring exceptional costs our trading loss for the year actually 
decreased to  2m.
Some people would say we were lucky to be promoted but I would disagree with one exception; 
the luck we had was in finding Aidy, for which Mark Ashton must take a large amount of the credit.  
Given Aidy's abilities, once he was on board we were convinced that we would be promoted 
within three years. So when it came it wasn't lucky - just premature.
Promotion meant a considerable amount of money and as both shareholders and supporters 
I believe you are entitled to hear from me why and where we decided to spend our increased 
income.   Firstly we invested in the playing squad both in the summer 2006 transfer window 
and in January 2007. The cost of the new players together with additional Premiership payroll 
costs of the existing players, greatly added to the Club's wage bill. However the extra TV and 
broadcast revenue was supplemented by increased ticketing and commercial revenue such that 
the Company generated an operating cash flow (after interest) of approximately  4.8m. The uses 
to which this money was put were as follows:
WatFoRd leisuRe PlC 
RePoR t and aCCounts 
2007
04
www.watfordleisureplc.com
 m
Net operating cash inflows after interest 4.8
Purchase of players (5.5)
Sale of players 3.7
Capital expenditure (2.9)
Loan repayments (2.4)
Net cash outflow (2.3) The cost of new players in the financial year 2006/7 was  5.5m but it is worth noting that there 
are still  4.1m of deferred payments to be made in respect of players' acquisitions during the 
2007/08 season (and  0.7m in 2008/09). On the income side the headline figure for the sale 
of Ashley Young in January 2007 was  9.65m but only  8.0m of this is guaranteed and of this 
only  3.5m was received in the 2006/07 season (with  3.5m received in August 2007 and  1m 
receivable in January 2008). The cash generated last year also gave the Board the opportunity to 
carry out the first phase of the re-development of the stadium at Vicarage Road (new concourse 
and catering kiosks in the Rookery Stand together with greatly enhanced corporate hospitality 
suites in the Rous Stand). In addition we have invested in a new point-of-sale catering system, 
an access control system, the stadium communication network, improved training facilities and 
in new administrative offices in Tolpits Lane (necessitated by the building work of the key worker 
housing units at the rear of the Rookery Stand). Lastly the Club took the opportunity to purchase 
the freehold of the Red Lion pub (opposite the stadium) in September 2006.    
Whilst much was achieved on the back of the additional Premiership revenues, as a Board we 
decided that financially we needed to plan on a worst case scenario over a three year period 
following relegation from the Premiership. We didn't want to be relegated, we didn't set out to 
be relegated and believe me it hurt like hell when it happened but we always intended that if we 
were then Aidy would have the best chance of getting us back into the Premiership. The first 
parachute payment therefore has enabled us to retain most of the Premiership squad of players 
and although we lost Hameur Bouazza to Fulham in August 2007, he was replaced in the same 
month by Nathan Ellington. Going forward we intend to use the Premiership  monies in the 
judicious investment in players and in continuing to invest where possible in the stadium and 
Club's infrastructure. We also intend to use some of the cash to repay shareholder loans. We do 
not preclude new shareholder loans but the Board feel that such debts were incurred on market 
terms and that therefore they should be paid back.    
For shareholders the last five years has been a bumpy ride. In September 2002 with the 
Company days away from administration the recapitalisation effectively valued the Company 
at approximately  7.5m. Since then a further  11.3m has been invested by shareholders in the 
Company. The Company's current market capitalization is approximately  13m. I have therefore, 
not yet achieved my objective of returning value to our shareholders but believe that  we are well 
placed to do so in the near future.
We are now a Company with a stable business base from which to challenge for the Premiership 
based on an expanded revenue basis. We own our own ground and have a squad of players 
with significant value. We have the capacity to grow on the Vicarage Road site and in the area 
surrounding it. Moreover we have the people to achieve our ambitions and it is of this I am most 
proud. Watford Leisure PLC and Watford Football Club have changed in the last five years not 
because of me or the Board but because the hard work and commitment of the people who work 
here both on and off the pitch and it is on that basis that I feel confident that we can achieve all of 
our strategic objectives.
www.watfordleisureplc.com www.watfordleisureplc.com
WatFoRd leisuRe PlC 
RePoR t and aCCounts 
2007
05