 it is worthwhile repeating our strategic objective, which  
is to add value by proving up leads and plays in the 
licence and permit areas held by Wessex. in addition,  
the company seeks to balance shareholder exposure 
to risk and capital outlay with appropriate reward by 
de-risking prospects, including the drilling of high impact 
wells by other parties.
Highlights
 	 The	 success	 of	 the	 high	 profile	 exploration	 well	 drilled	
in Guyane waters targeting the Zaedyus prospect.
 	 AIM	 admission	 achieved	 in	 March	 2011	 accompanied	
by  3 million institutional placing.
 	 Significant	 progress	 made	 in	 farm-out	 discussions	 over	
Juan de Nova Est permit area in the mozambique 
channel.
introduction
Since my last statement to shareholders in march 2011, 
the profile of Wessex has been raised considerably,  
due to the much publicised success of the Gm-ES-1  
well targeting the Zaedyus prospect in the deep waters  
of Guyane.
The Aim admission on the London Stock Exchange  
in march 2011 accompanied by a  3 million institutional 
placing facilitated the funding of our share of the  
well in Guyane and the advancement of our other 
projects' interests held in Juan de Nova Est located  
in the mozambique channel, Southern England and 
Western Sahara.
i am pleased to report to the shareholders of Wessex Exploration PLc 
(Wessex  or the company ) on continuing progress during the 12 months 
ended 30 June 2011 and beyond, especially in respect of our key interest 
in Guyane where the operator, Tullow Oil plc has announced details of an 
offshore oil discovery. 
exploration
assets
capitalising on 
chairman's statement
2 Wessex Exploration PLc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Guyane
The Gm-ES-1 well was drilled by partners Tullow Oil 
plc (Tullow ) the operator (27.5%), Shell E&P France 
(Shell ) (45%), Total E&P Guyane Francaise SAS 
(Total ) (25%) and Northpet investments Limited 
(2.5%), a joint venture between Northern Petroleum Plc 
and Wessex, each with a beneficial net holding of 1.25%.
in September 2011, Tullow issued a news release 
stating the Zaedyus exploration well has made an oil 
discovery having encountered 72 metres of net oil pay 
in two turbidite fans. Results of drilling, wireline logs 
and samples of reservoir fluids show that the well has 
encountered good quality reservoir sands on prognosis .
The objective of the Zaedyus well was to test whether 
the Jubilee-play off-shore Ghana, successfully established 
in West Africa, was mirrored on the other side of the 
Atlantic. This theory has now been confirmed by the 
discovery and indicates the opening of a new frontier 
basin in Guyane.
Evaluation, including a resource assessment, is ongoing 
from information obtained from the well, the results 
of which will determine the future campaign to be 
conducted over the Guyane maritime Permit covering  
an area of approximately 30,000 square kilometres. 
Five other fan prospects have been mapped resulting 
from the extensive 3-d survey acquired by the partnership 
during 2009/2010, namely, Priodontes, dasypus, 
Bradypus, Formis and cebus. Outside the 3-d zone there 
also lies the matamata prospect, a very large structural 
four-way-dip closure. 
The Zaedyus discovery substantially de-risks the existing 
prospect inventory and Wessex has high expectations 
of the future of this major project which according to 
Tullow marks the start of a significant and potentially 
transformational long term exploration and appraisal 
campaign .
Juan De nova est 
The island of Juan de Nova lies in the mozambique 
channel and is an overseas territory of France which 
claims a large exclusive economic zone around the 
island. A small French garrison and some meteorological 
scientists inhabit the atoll and are supported logistically 
from the much larger island of Reunion in the western 
indian Ocean.
The Juan de Nova Est permit, comprising 9,100 square 
kilometres is 70% held by Wessex with Global Petroleum 
holding the remaining 30%.
A thick stratigraphic section of sedimentary and volcanic 
rocks ranging from Permian to Tertiary underlies the 
permit area and the geology suggests the existence of 
at least two and possibly three different hydrocarbon 
systems in the region.
desk top and other studies continue on the project and 
Wessex has recently purchased field tapes of a seismic 
line, part of a survey shot in 2001, over the whole of the 
exclusive economic zone of Juan de Nova. Work is being 
conducted to improve the original data by re-processing 
this information set.
The terms of this permit require substantial investment  
by Wessex and a farm-out campaign, managed by ENVOi, 
a company offering specialist marketing and advisory 
services to the oil and gas industry and commissioned 
by Wessex is showing major promise to date. Proposals 
have been received and management is considering these 
offers which will assist in our commitment to fulfilling  
the future work obligations in return for an equity interest 
in the project.
The Zaedyus
an oil discovery having
encountered 72 metres
of net oil in two turbidite fans
exploration well made
 Wessex Exploration PLc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 3 southern england
Wessex currently has interests of 50% and 25% in 
two Petroleum Exploration and development Licences 
(PEdLs ) located in Southern England, PEdLs 238  
and 239 respectively. For strategic reasons our interests  
in PEdL O89 were relinquished during Q3 2011. 
The PEdLs are operated by NWE mirrabooka, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Norwest Energy NL, based in Perth, 
Western Australia and listed on the Australian Stock 
Exchange.
NWE mirrabooka and Wessex have applied for an 
extensive area of Bournemouth Bay, to the east of the 
Wytch Farm oilfield, in the 26th UK Seaward Licensing 
Round. The licence application is for an area covering 
multiple part-blocks between the mainland licences  
PEdL 238 and the isle of Wight licence PEdL 239.  
The results of these applications are expected in late  
2011 or early 2012.
The Wessex Basin of Southern England is a well known 
and proven hydrocarbon province, with a number of 
small oil and gas accumulations and one giant Wytch 
Farm oilfield which has produced over 440 million barrels 
of oil to date.
The principal reservoirs are the sands of the Triassic 
Sherwood Sandstone, also the main reservoir at Wytch 
Farm, along with the Lower Jurassic Bridport Sandstone.
An integral part of the exploration strategy devised  
by NWE mirrabooka for Southern England has been  
to acquire a large amount of high resolution gravity  
data, both ground based and airborne and use this  
data to assist in interpreting the geological structure  
in areas where seismic information is of poor quality.
A detailed screening and geophysical review of the 
licences was conducted by the operator in 2009/2010 
that identified a number of exploration leads which 
warrant further exploration.
A competent Person's Report, conducted by molten 
Limited, written in march 2011 for the purpose of the 
Aim flotation, shows a gross unrisked P50 potential 
Prospective Resource for the UK portfolio of the current 
interests held by Wessex of approximately 100 million 
barrels of oil.
Wessex and its partners on the PEdLs will continue 
evaluation with an objective to prove up the existing 
leads, with a view to drilling over the next two years.
The Wessex Basin
 is a well known and
proven hydrocarbon province
of Southern England
chairman's statement (continued)
4 Wessex Exploration PLc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Western sahara
Wessex holds a 50% equity interest in the large offshore 
Guelta and onshore Bojador blocks respectively.
The United Nations considers Western Sahara to be  
a Non-Self-Governing territory; jurisdiction over the 
territory is disputed between morocco to the north 
and the Saharawi Arab democratic Republic (SAdR ) 
proclaimed in 1976 by the Polisario Front.
The SAdR conducted its first oil and gas licence 
exploration round in 2005. maghreb Exploration Limited, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Wessex was awarded 
operatorship of the licences in the form of Production 
Sharing contracts.
if and when political status of the SAdR is resolved  
the potential of the area can be explored.
corporate
The ordinary shares of Wessex are now traded on Aim  
on the London Stock Exchange following the move from 
the PLUS-market.
An oversubscribed open offer and placing in November 
2010 raised  1.875 million before expenses and a 
successful institutional placing conducted in march 2011 
at the same time as the Aim admission raised  3.0 
million before expenses ensuring the company's financial 
capability to fund the initial Guyane drilling programme 
and to progress other exploration activities. in addition, 
we remain debt free.
The Zaedyus discovery is a company changing event and 
i would like to make it very clear that Wessex has every 
intention of remaining part of this consortium to enable 
shareholders to benefit further from the expected positive 
outcome of any appraisal drilling and future development. 
Therefore it is important that the company has the 
flexibility to react without delay to the requirements  
of the project and the resolutions proposed at the AGm 
are for this purpose.
summary 
Significant progress has been made during the year  
and i am very pleased for the shareholders who have 
supported us during the drilling of the Zaedyus well.
There is no in-between status in the speculative world  
of oil exploration - it is a make or break situation.  
On a personal basis i have taken immense pleasure  
in the success of Wessex to date.
The Zaedyus discovery has cemented a more than  
positive future for Wessex going forward and the  
Aim flotation has been a tremendous success at  
time of writing showing a significant increase in the  
share price even during difficult market conditions.
The exploration portfolio and strategy put together  
in the early days of the formation of Wessex are set  
on firm foundations and i am confident further good 
news on our projects, in particular Guyane will be 
forthcoming in the future.
David Bramhill 
chairman
26 October 2011
The ordinary shares
now traded on Aim on the
London Stock Exchange
of Wessex Exploration are
 Wessex Exploration PLc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 5