 0
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Chairman's Statement
I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report 
and Consolidated Financial Statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2005. This has been 
another successful year for The Westbury 
Property Fund with strong portfolio 
performance from both the balanced  
and venture portfolios.
I am pleased to report the audited net asset 
value per share due to Ordinary Shareholders 
was 127.91p at 31 December 2005 which 
compares favourably with 105.25p at 31 
December 2004. This represents a 21.5% 
improvement over the year and is net of 
property acquisition costs, dividends paid  
and an accrual for the Investment Manager's 
performance fee.
Dividends
The Board declared quarterly dividends on 
Ordinary Shares at the rate of 1.5p per quarter, 
totalling 6p in respect of the year to 
31 December 2005.
The Board has also declared and paid four 
quarterly dividends during the year for each 
Income Share totalling 8p, fulfilling Income 
Shareholders' entitlement to receive a fixed 
preferential dividend of 8% per annum over  
the life of the Income Shares. 
Net Asset Value
The Ordinary Shares are entitled to the assets of 
the Company after satisfaction of all debt and 
other liabilities of the Company including the 
entitlement of Income Shares. 
The Company made a profit after taxation of 
 14,173,798 for the year ( 7,563,311 in 2004). 
This figure is after the payment of all property 
acquisition costs and the costs of running the 
Company, bank debt interest, dividends paid  
to Income Shareholders, and a provision for the 
Investment Manager's performance fee accrued 
in the year.
The Company had just over  50m of new  
funds to invest during 2005 and I am delighted 
to report that this was successfully invested 
during the year (the acquisition of two assets 
concluded shortly after the year end). It was  
the Investment Manager's intention to target 
the London and the South East areas. I am 
pleased that more than 75% of monies invested 
were placed in these areas where there has 
been, and continues to be, particularly strong 
demand from other property investors. 
The Company's investment properties have been 
independently valued by Knight Frank. These 
valuations are updated on a quarterly basis. 
Bank Borrowings
As at 31 December 2005, the Company had 
fixed rate borrowings with Bradford & Bingley 
amounting to  63m currently drawn down  
and fixed at an average all in cost of 5.9% per 
annum until 25 June 2009. The Company has a 
further  2.8m drawn down under its revolving 
facility which is set at a floating rate. On a 
blended basis, the Company's all in cost of bank 
debt is approximately 5.9% per annum.
The Investment Manager, with the Board's 
support, has instigated a prudent rebasing of 
the security values on which the original debt 
package was based using the portfolio values  
as at the end of September 2005 together with 
an increase in the facility limit. On completion 
of this renegotiation, in January 2006, an 
additional circa  40m has been released for 
investment during 2006. This will be targeted 
towards a blend of London and South East 
assets and venture portfolio opportunities.  
The Investment Manager will, of course, 
consider other opportunities outside these 
geographical limits on their merits and on  
a case-by-case basis. 
This has been another successful year with strong portfolio performance 
from both the balanced and venture portfolios. 02
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Over the medium term, the Company intends  
to maintain its gearing within a range of  
55%-65% and whilst the interest rate outlook 
remains relatively stable, the Company's policy 
is not to expose itself to any material interest 
rate risk.
Property Portfolio
As at 31 December 2005, the Company had  
a direct, or balanced, property portfolio of  
19 properties with an aggregate valuation of 
 127.6m. This includes the Company's share  
of Mid City Place, a joint venture investment 
which has all the characteristics of a balanced 
portfolio investment but is accounted for as  
a joint venture in the financial statements.  
The Company now has 59 tenancies, a total 
annualised rent roll at the year end of circa 
 7.8m and a weighted average lease length  
of over 10.5 years.
The portfolio offers investors a balanced and 
diversified exposure to the UK property market 
in terms of sector, region and tenant ability to 
meet the financial commitments under their 
lease obligations.
Venture Property Investments
I am delighted that two further equity 
investments in joint ventures with other 
experienced investors have been made during 
the year. One of these completed shortly after 
the year end. The aggregate equity investment 
made was  2.92m. Two profitable disposals 
have also been made from this portfolio during 
2005, which generated a combined  1.38m  
net profit on the Company's  2.24m aggregate 
initial investment.
Furthermore, the Company made a  1.1m 
investment for a 50% stake in a joint venture 
company which owns a health and fitness 
centre, in February 2006.
Each of the two remaining joint ventures which 
were held throughout the year are separately 
capitalised and all debt arranged in each 
venture has been structured on a non-recourse 
basis to the Company. The aggregate cost of 
the Company's existing equity investments in 
these joint ventures amounts to some  1.1m 
and the Company has made loans of a further 
 1.3m to one of these joint ventures. The 
investments comprise a mixed-use development 
scheme in central Liverpool and a storage and 
facilities handling business operating from a 
strategically located site in Runcorn.
The investment horizon for these investments 
varies from two to five years and if the forecast 
returns are achieved, there will be a significant 
uplift in the net asset value due to Ordinary 
Shareholders. Further investments will be made 
as opportunities present themselves.
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
There has been an increasing amount of 
discussion both within the industry and in  
the press concerning the introduction of Real 
Estate Investment Trusts. Although a revised 
draft consultation paper was issued by the 
Government at the end of 2005, it appears that 
new legislation will be published in the Summer 
2006 Finance Bill with conversion to REITs 
possible in January 2007 at the earliest.
Unlike all UK domiciled quoted property 
companies, the Company already enjoys many 
of the benefits of tax transparency. There is no 
capital gains tax for Guernsey companies and all 
returns to shareholders are distributed gross.
The Board will continue to monitor the progress 
of legislation and will act in Shareholders' 
interests in meeting the challenge and 
opportunities of REITs if appropriate.
Chairman's Statement continued
  0
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Outlook
The commercial property market remains strong 
with 2005 seeing further yield compression 
boosted by the considerable and unabated 
weight of money pursuing investment 
opportunities and the continued expectation of 
rental growth. Investor preference for property 
over equities and bonds has continued although 
there are signs that equity markets are finding 
increasing favour.
At the start of 2006 there appears to be 
continued appetite from all areas of the  
market for property opportunities which 
suggests further yield compression will drive 
performance. Latest UK economic indicators 
suggest a moderation in economic activity  
and a slowdown in consumer spending and 
confidence, despite a generally reasonable 
Christmas trading period. This may have an 
impact on future interest rate movements 
which are likely to remain relatively flat or trend 
downward during the year which may positively 
impact on commercial property values. Recent 
downward shifts in long term interest rates, 
since the beginning of the year, seem to support 
this view. 
The Board remains cautious as to the 
sustainability of continued rising capital values 
as it seems unlikely that continued double digit 
returns will be seen going forward. We do not 
however believe there will be a hard landing , 
rather a softening of property returns towards 
single digit levels. I believe the Company to  
be well placed to meet its objectives through 
the mix of a high quality, balanced portfolio 
with an attractive blended unexpired term  
and exposure to each of the main property  
sectors, combined with exciting opportunities 
within the venture portfolio. 
Board of Directors
It is with great regret that I report the untimely 
and premature death of my Board colleague 
Peter Dickson, who died following a boating 
accident whilst on holiday abroad. Peter was  
a very effective member of the Board who 
undertook an active role in the direction of  
the Company and his presence, experience and 
participation in the running of the Company 
will, I know, be sorely missed. I wish to take  
this opportunity to pass on the Board's sincere 
condolences and support to Peter's wife and 
two sons at this very difficult time.
Under my direction, the Board has recently 
instigated a search to find a suitable 
replacement for Peter and an appointment  
will be made in due course.
Shareholder Communication
In addition to the Annual and Interim Reports, 
the Investment Manager publishes a Quarterly 
Performance Report on the activities of the 
Company. This is distributed to shareholders by 
email. Any shareholder who does not currently 
receive this document and wishes to do so 
should contact info@berringtonfm.com.
Rodney Baker-Bates
Chairman
27 February 2006