 01
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
Chairman's Statement
I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report
and Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2004.
This has been another successful year for
The Westbury Property Fund. There has been
strong performance from the underlying
assets and the Company has been able to
raise additional equity, widening and
expanding its shareholder base. 
I am delighted to report the audited net asset
value per share due to Ordinary Shareholders is
105.25p as at 31 December 2004 having fully
accounted for the costs of the share placing and
reorganisation completed in December 2004.
This compares with an equivalent value of
83.12p at 31 December 2003 and represents
a 27% uplift year on year which is a strong
result achieved across the entire portfolio. 
The Company issued a circular to shareholders
on 19 November 2004 proposing a
reorganisation of share capital, placing and
open offer. I am pleased to report that at the
EGM on 17 December 2004, all resolutions
were passed and following the compulsory
conversion of the remaining Capital Shares in
January 2005, the number of Ordinary Shares in
issue is now 51,734,569. The remaining
5,271,678 Income Shares will be subject to a
mandatory redemption on 31 March 2010 at
100p which can either be elected for in cash or
new Ordinary Shares.
Dividends
During the year the Board has declared and paid
four quarterly dividends per Income Share
amounting to 8p in total. This comprised 2p per
quarter for the year and is in line with the
Income Shareholders' entitlement to receive a
fixed preferential dividend of 8% per annum
over their life. 
In line with the statements made in the recent
circular to shareholders and subject to any
unforeseen circumstances, it is the Board's
intention to declare quarterly dividends on the
Ordinary Shares from 31 March 2005 at the rate
of 1.5p per quarter, amounting to 6p in total for
the 12 months to 31 December 2005.
Net Asset Value
The Ordinary Shares are entitled to all of the
assets of the Company after satisfaction of all
debt and other liabilities of the Company and
the entitlement of Income Shares. 
During the year, the Company made a net
profit of  7,563,311. This has been retained
for the benefit of the Ordinary Shareholders.
It has been achieved after the payment of all
costs relating to the running of the Company,
interest paid on bank debt, all dividends paid
to Income Shareholders, a provision for the
Investment Manager's performance fee
accrued to date, and the costs of the share
reorganisation (save for the costs of the
placing and open offer which have been
debited to share premium account). 
The net asset value per share due to Ordinary
Shareholders, as at 31 December 2004,
amounted to 105.25p. Following the share
reorganisation, placing and open offer, the
Company is intending to acquire circa
 50m of property in 2005. Assuming property
acquisition costs, including a provision for
Stamp Duty Reserve Tax, the net asset value per
Ordinary Share would fall to 100.2p. Such
adjustments, if applicable, will be made in our
quarterly net asset values but cannot be made,
until expensed, in our year-end accounts under
International Financial Reporting Standards.
There has been strong performance from the underlying assets and the
Company has been able to raise additional equity, widening and
expanding its shareholder base. All of the Company's investment properties
have been independently valued by Knight
Frank and these valuations are updated on
a quarterly basis. 
Bank Borrowings
As at 31 December 2004, the Company had
fixed rate borrowings with Bradford & Bingley
amounting to  37.5m currently drawn down
and fixed at an average all-in-cost of 6.1% per
annum until 25 June 2009. The Company has
a further  6m drawn down under its revolving
facility which is at a floating rate. The Board
considers this to be a prudent interest rate
policy as it will enable debt breakage costs
to be minimised in the event that any assets
are disposed of pending future reinvestment.
On a blended basis, the Company's all in cost
of debt is approximately 6% per annum.
It remains the Company's firm policy not to
expose itself to any material interest rate risk.
Property Portfolio
As at 31 December 2004, the Company had
a direct property portfolio of 13 properties
with an aggregate valuation of  73.5m. The
Company now has 43 tenancies in the balanced
portfolio, a forecast total annualised rent roll in
2005 of circa  5m and a weighted average
lease length of over 12 years.
The portfolio is well diversified by sector,
region and tenant financial covenant strength.
As stated in the recent circular to shareholders
it is the intention of the Company to invest 
circa  50m during 2005 to be targeted
predominantly in the South East. 
I am pleased to report that the Company
currently has four properties in solicitors' hands
amounting to approximately  24m of capital
value and that three out of four of these
properties are located in the South East. 
Venture Property Investments
I am pleased to report that during the year
under review the Company has made two
further equity investments in joint ventures with
other experienced property investors, along
with one profitable disposal. Each of the four
remaining joint ventures is separately capitalised
and all debt in each venture has been structured
on a non-recourse basis. The aggregate book
value of the Company's equity investment in the
four ventures amounts to some  3.2m. The
investments comprise a mixed-use development
scheme in the centre of Liverpool, a shopping
centre with refurbishment potential in
Peterborough, a storage and facilities handling
business operating from a strategically located
site in Runcorn and an industrial property
with medium term redevelopment prospects
in Edmonton.
The investment horizon for these investments
varies from two to five years and if the forecast
returns are achieved, there will be a significant
uplift in the net asset value due to Ordinary
Shareholders. All venture investments are
currently valued at book cost and further
investments will be made as opportunities
present themselves.
Property Investment Funds (PIFs)
There has been a great deal of press
comment and interest in the Government's
announcement that it would consider the
introduction of tax transparent property
investment funds. The Company's Investment
Manager has submitted a consultation paper to
the Treasury and in common with the rest of the
property industry, we await a further statement
by the Treasury. However it does not look likely
02
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
Chairman's Statement continued that primary legislation will be enacted during
2005 with 2006/2007 being more likely.
Unlike all UK domiciled quoted property
companies, the Company already enjoys many
of the benefits of tax transparency. There is
no capital gains tax for Guernsey companies;
further, there is currently no tax payable on the
Company's rental income and all returns to
shareholders are distributed gross.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will continue
to monitor the progress of PIF legislation and
may consider a change of domicile, if PIFs are
introduced and if it is in shareholders' interests
to convert the Company into a PIF .
Outlook
Total returns for property over the 12 months to
December 2004 rose to their highest level in 10
years, bolstered by favourable yield movement
and an improvement in rental growth for the
fourth consecutive quarter.
The commercial property market remains strong
and there is a considerable weight of money
targeted towards and entering the sector as
institutional and personal asset allocation
continues in favour of commercial property over
equities and bonds. At the same time, the latest
UK economic indicators suggest that activity
continues to remain robust, against a backdrop
of global tightening of fiscal policy and high
energy prices. Evidence of a slowdown in the
housing market as well as weakening consumer
confidence has emerged, which may have an
impact on future interest rate movements and
ultimately commercial property capital values.
We remain cautious as to the long term
sustainability of rising capital values. We do not
believe that 2005 will repeat the performance
of 2004, although we believe the sector as a
whole will continue to provide total returns in
excess of 7%. 
The Company is well placed and on target to
meet its forecast returns but, in light of the
current mixed economic climate, covenant
strength and lease length will again remain the
overriding strategic focus for 2005 as well as a
shift in geographical bias towards the South
East for future acquisitions. 
In the absence of unforeseen circumstances,
the Company intends to be fully invested by
the end of 2005. Further share issuance will be
considered if opportunities present themselves
as the Company has now developed a strong
track record and a good following from a wide
and diverse spread of investors.
Shareholder Communication
In addition to the Annual and Interim Reports,
the Investment Manager publishes a Quarterly
Performance Report on the activities of the
Company. This is distributed to shareholders by
email. Any shareholder who does not currently
receive this document and wishes to do so
should contact info@berringtonfm.com.
Rodney Baker-Bates
Chairman
21 February 2005
03
The Westbury Property Fund Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004