 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 06
Chairman's Statement
Our strategy to move towards higher quality more sustainable 
income streams is bearing fruit. 
Achieving our medium 
term and strategic goals
I am pleased to present my report on Wilmington's results 
for the twelve months ended 30 June 2013. We have moved 
forward in line with our strategic aims of building a higher quality 
business comprising a larger proportion of subscription and 
repeatable revenues. 
Focussing on the financial results I am delighted to report 
continued success, making good progress towards our medium 
term financial targets. Wilmington has delivered an improved 
financial performance with Adjusted EBITA up 8% ( 1.2m) 
to  16.9m from  15.7m in 2012. Revenues were stable at 
 85.0m (2012:  85.3m) reflecting the restructuring of the legal 
division, the disposal or closure of lower margin businesses 
and our exit from contract directory publishing. These were 
counterbalanced by a revenue contribution of  2.1m from our 
two acquisitions made in the year and a full year contribution 
from Millennium acquired in May 2012. The result of our actions 
is a very satisfactory growth in adjusted EBITA margin to 19.8% 
(2012:18.4%)
Adjusted Profit before Tax was up a pleasing 11% ( 1.5m) to 
 14.7m (2012:  13.2m) driven by improving Adjusted EBITA 
and reduced interest on debt arising from our strong cash flow.  
At 30 June 2013 our net debt had reduced by  2.8m to  33.4m 
compared to  36.2m at 30 June 2012 despite investing  
 6.3m of net cash on acquisitions in the year. Our gearing as 
calculated by net debt to Adjusted EBITDA has fallen to  
1.8 times (2012:2.1 times) and cash conversion remained  
strong at 115% (2012:111%).
Mark Asplin
Chairman
During the year, we have 
continued our focus on 
higher margin business  
and implemented a 
number of internal 
initiatives to support  
our strategic objectives. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 07
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
In terms of business development it has been an exciting and 
busy year with particular emphasis on preparing the Group 
for future expansion and growth. This is consistent with our 
strategy of growth through selective value adding acquisitions 
and focussed organic investment. We have also taken action 
to improve margins through the consolidation of our legal 
and accountancy programmes, the disposal of our sub scale 
Australian investment, removal of loss making print directory 
products, the termination of our NCLT venture and our exit from 
contract publishing. 
Our strategy to move towards higher quality more sustainable 
income streams is bearing fruit. Revenue from subscriptions 
and repeatable revenues represented 79% of Group turnover 
(2012: 78%) and digital revenue as a percentage of our content 
revenue was also 79% (2012 76%). Advertising represented 
6% of revenue (2012: 9%) despite the addition of Inese which 
generates around 14% of its revenue from advertising sources.
Business Strategy
Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by delivering 
sustainable and growing profits from servicing the information, 
compliance and education requirements of the global 
professional business markets.
We are focused on developing existing assets and acquiring 
new businesses in the UK and overseas that are earnings 
accretive with predictable recurring revenues and strong cash 
flows. During the year, we have continued our focus on higher 
margin business and implemented a number of internal initiatives 
to support our strategic objectives. These initiatives included 
increasing investment and co-ordination in the development of 
technology, introducing new strategic HR and finance systems 
as well as consolidating our back office functions into a central 
shared service structure. 
We are confident that this strategy will deliver a group of 
businesses with an increasing proportion of revenues derived 
from subscriptions to products which disseminate content-rich, 
high-value information digitally along with certificated education 
and compliance programs. Tighter regulatory control and more 
complex legislation in our key markets will continue to drive the 
demand for our products and services globally.
In addition, we have actively sought to increase our income 
streams from outside the UK where we see better prospects 
for long term sustainable growth. Revenue outside the UK has 
grown to 32% of total revenue compared to 28% last year. 
This growth, alongside cost savings and product development 
which have already been implemented, should result in further 
progress being made in 2013/14.
Acquisitions
Since my report in last year's annual statement we have made 
three acquisitions; NHiS, Inese and Compliance Week. Each 
acquisition has been consistent with our investment strategy 
and each acquisition was made with a clear objective and 
strengthened our position in one of our six core markets. 
NHiS, a provider of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow 
tools and other services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK 
was acquired in February 2013. NHiS had built up a major business 
intelligence and technology capability in a complementary  
area to Binley's our healthcare information business. Our key 
objective was to combine resources and opportunities.
Inese, acquired in March 2013, is a provider of Spanish 
language subscription based publications and online services.  
It also provides training and a number of annual events  
including the leading industry congress; Insurance Week .  
Inese also operates a digital news service in Latin America.  
This business neatly complements our existing insurance 
activities and will offer a route by which Axco will be able to 
exploit Inese's access to the South American market.
Post year end, in August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week. 
Compliance Week is the leading provider of governance, risk 
and compliance (GRC ) information and events for public 
companies and large enterprises primarily in the US. Compliance 
Week will work closely with other Wilmington Group companies 
including Axco (insurance market regulation and compliance 
information) and the ICT compliance training business, providing 
both with closer access to their North American customers 
and markets as well as opportunities for developing new 
revenue streams. The Group is also very well placed to support 
Compliance Week's ambitions to grow outside of the US and in 
October 2013 the Group will launch Compliance Week Europe  
in Brussels. 
Dividend
I am proud of the Group's record of maintaining its dividend over 
the recent years reflecting our confidence in the strategy and 
resilience of our business models and I am pleased to confirm 
that the final dividend for this year will be 3.5p (2012: 3.5p) per 
share making a total dividend of 7.0p (2012: 7.0p) per share 
for the year. We intend to build our annual dividend cover of 
Adjusted Earnings per Share to two times the annual dividend at 
which time we will resume a progressive dividend policy.
Outlook and Current Trading
During the year, we have continued to focus on developing 
existing assets and acquiring new businesses in the UK and 
overseas to widen the Group's geographic reach and strengthen 
recurring revenues and cash flows. Transitioning the Group to 
a higher quality, higher margin business has been a key priority 
and as result, the Group is well positioned to deliver on its 
medium term growth targets.
 
We believe the macro economic climate is changing slowly for 
the better and the Group is in a good position to take advantage 
of this. As we anticipate tighter regulatory control and more 
complex legislation to be implemented in our key markets, these 
changes will continue to drive the demand for our products and 
services globally. 
The new financial year has started well and we are seeing good 
growth in a number of areas in particular from our Pensions & 
Insurance and Banking & Compliance Divisions.
Finally we are in a fast moving service industry and we are 
fundamentally reliant on the quality and professionalism of 
our people. I would once again like to express my own and 
my fellow Board members' appreciation of the hard work and 
dedication of our people and to extend a warm welcome to the 
newer members of our group from NHiS, Inese and Compliance 
Week to the Wilmington team.
Mark Asplin
Chairman
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 08
Chief Executive's Review
NHiS Limited
Complementary  
to our Binley's  
healthcare  
information  
business
NHiS, which joined the Group  
in February 2013 provides 
business intelligence, data 
analysis, workflow tools and 
other services to pharmaceutical 
companies in the UK. 
NHiS was launched in 2007 and 
subsequently built up a leading 
position in business intelligence 
for pharmaceutical companies. 
This was very complementary 
to our Binley's healthcare 
information business and the 
key objective was to combine 
resources and develop joint 
opportunities.
NHiS offers a variety of products 
across the four product sets: 
Quantis; Investigator; Insight;  
and Optimisation. Each product 
set is informed and powered by 
PLEXUS, the most comprehensive 
data warehouse of NHS and social 
care intelligence across the UK. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 09
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Since completing the acquisition we 
have transferred Binley's own business 
intelligence arm into NHiS with 
technology, product and customers 
combined in the enlarged operation.  
The integration has gone well and the 
enlarged business is performing to plan. 
NHiS Collaboration with Wilmington 
Companies: Since joining Wilmington, 
NHiS has managed to create synergies 
with our Binley's healthcare business  
and with other organisations in the  
wider group. These have included:
  Binley's database specialists taking on   
 the data management responsibilities   
 for NHiS to deliver an improved   
 service at a reduced cost.
  Collaboration with Axco and other   
 Group companies regarding Sharepoint  
 based content management and web   
 delivery technology.
  Collaborating with APM France,   
 specialists in the provision of real time   
 news on French and international   
 healthcare markets, to investigate the   
 opportunity to replicate the NHiS value   
 proposition in France.
  Using the geographical presence of   
 Inese, the leading insurance information  
 provider for the Spanish market, to   
 research the potential to expand the   
 NHiS proposition to Spain.
It is early days but the cross pollination  
of ideas and opportunities for both NHiS 
and the wider Wilmington Group bodes 
well for the future.
Learn more online...
For more information about NHiS 
please scan the QR code with your 
smart phone or visit:
http://www.nhis.info/home/