 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC
Chairman's statement
6
Review of the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2004
The directors are pleased to announce the results for the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2004. Once again they
show a year of good, steady progress, with record sales and profits - the 37th successive improvement since
the company went public in 1967. A solid team performance delivered the goods once again, in spite of the
diversion of attention to the bid for Safeway plc. A good illustration of the strength in depth of our management
team and a tribute to their all-round knowledge, skill and application when under extra pressure.
Sales
Total takings through our stores were  5 3bn rising by 15 3% from the  4 6bn reported in 2003. This growth
came from a combination of new stores, increases in the average number of customers in each of our stores,
and a rise in the average spend by each customer.
During the year sales were helped by the opening of new stores at Port Talbot, Ebbw Vale, Barrow, Liverpool,
Bristol and Barnsley and large new replacements, which began trading at Anlaby, Failsworth and Rotherham.
The results of the store opening programme have been exceptionally good and some new takings records have
been established. During this time the Wetherby store was closed for rebuilding works. We finished the year
trading from 125 stores with an average sales area of 36,200 sq. ft. and added petrol filling stations to our stores
at Banbury, Failsworth, Keighley, Retford and Yeadon.
Like-for-like sales were up by 9 3% and total supermarket takings by 15 3% to  5 3bn. Shoppers continue to
enjoy our offer of low prices and great value in quality surroundings. Our success in the fresh food areas of our
business was again demonstrated through the strong performance of the Market Street . Multisaves were
again well supported and our customers benefited to the tune of  366m.
The average number of customers using each of our stores every week rose by 3 4% and their average spend
went up from  23 57 to  24 48 - an increase of 3 9%. Excluding petrol sales, each of our stores took an
average of  715,700 per week, an increase of 7 4% over the  666,400 shown in the previous year. When we
exclude new stores, the increase in like-for-like stores sales was 8 5% and this rises to 9 3% when petrol is
taken into account. After VAT and other adjustments, net sales from our stores improved by 15 2% against
last year.
In order to recognise the importance of other forms of income, most of the items previously shown as sundry
income have been reclassified as turnover and once we include rents receivable, lottery commission, etc., the
total turnover of the group has risen from  4,290m in 2003 to  4,944m this year.
Profit
Although the gross margin was slightly down, staff costs, overheads and depreciation rose less than the
increase in turnover, and the operating margin remained virtually unchanged. Operating profit was  305 1m
after taking into account  10 9m of advisors costs in respect of the Safeway acquisition (last year  3 5m)
compared to  266 4m twelve months earlier.
As usual we treat any profit on the disposal of land and buildings as exceptional with income from this source
falling from  1 2m to  0 8m.
After taking interest into account, profit before tax rose by 13 2% from  282 5m to  319 9m.
We have fully adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benefits  for the first time and this has lead to a restatement of
the prior year's figures.
Balance Sheet
At the year end our balance sheet remained strong with no borrowings other than normal overdraft facilities and
 206 6m in net cash. The year has seen capital expenditure of  252m during which time shareholders' funds
have increased from a restated  1,233m to  1,317m - an increase of 6 8%
Dividend
The directors are proposing a final ordinary dividend of 2 70p per ordinary share. This will be paid on all shares
in issue on 23 April 2004, including those issued in respect of the acquisition of Safeway plc on 8 March 2004.
The total dividend for the period will be 3 25p per ordinary share compared with 2 70p in 2003, which shows
an increase of 20 4%. Excluding the amount payable on newly issued shares, the dividend is covered 3 9 times
by the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and  117m will be retained in the business for further
investment.
Staff
Over an extended period of 14 months when a number of members of senior management were heavily
engaged in the ultimately successful bid for Safeway plc, it was good to see how well the company performed.
All members of management and staff are to be commended for their good work, and I would like to thank
them for their support at a particularly busy time. I am pleased to note that in the 26th year of our profit sharing
scheme the sum available for distribution is increased by 12 5% to  16m and will be distributed amongst all
eligible employees. I would like to personally thank them for their continuing energy and enthusiasm which
contributes so much to the success of the company. Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC
Chairman's statement continued
7
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE
1 April 2004
Current Developments
On 2 February, the first day of the new financial year, our first Scottish store opened in Kilmarnock and this was
followed 4 weeks later by the new store at Hartlepool. The replacement store at Wetherby opened in March
and this will be followed by Falkirk in June, Knottingley and Swansea in October, and Manchester in November.
Just as last year when we completed major works at Dereham, Beverley and Keighley to refresh our stores,
the programme will continue with improvements at Harrogate, Boroughbridge and the Wetherby shopping
centre. Safeway stores at Rubery and Bridport have store extensions at completion and the Hereford store will
enjoy increased warehouse space. A new Safeway store of 29,000 sq. ft. with a petrol filling station at Bangor
(Northern Ireland) will open in April.
Future Developments
We expect to be very busy in the next few months with new developments including major store projects at
Auchinlea and Livingston in Scotland, and Swadlincote in Derbyshire. Consent has been obtained to rebuild our
existing store in Rothwell, and a further six store sites will move from the design stage shortly. Further
investment is being made in central facilities and an additional 440,000 sq. ft. warehouse has been purchased
at Northampton to enable us to begin the conversion programme of the first 50 large Safeway stores. Work
commences in June and these stores should carry the Morrison brand by the end of the year. Our initial planning
application for the new Regional Distribution Centre at Kettering was inexplicably turned down, despite being
recommended for approval. Whilst this was a set-back, the purchase of the Northampton unit will relieve any
immediate pressure whilst talks continue with the local authority to try and satisfy their concerns. A 100 acre
site has been acquired in Corby to enable us to build facilities to increase our packing capacity for fresh fruit and
vegetables and improve our ability to distribute both fresh and frozen goods. Packing and distribution facilities
for produce at the Hook of Holland are being augmented in order to meet our increased demands. The projected
head office building for Bradford has been re-designed to cater for the needs of the enlarged company. We will
continue to seek and exploit opportunities to develop new large stores in good locations.
Safeway
After a 14 month period of investigation, which commenced in January 2003, initially by the Office of Fair
Trading and then by the Competition Commission, we received consent to bid for Safeway. The transaction was
completed on 8 March 2004, and the process of integration started.
We are required to dispose of 52 stores under the consent and have commenced the marketing of these units.
There has been great interest in them and offers received to date have been very encouraging, although, of
course, the loss of turnover is disappointing. It is our intention to promptly transfer our trading in four towns to
existing Safeway units in Ripon, Southport, Chester and Bramley, Leeds.
Our plan to integrate the Safeway business into Morrisons will obviously take some time and there is a pressing
need for the implementation of our culture throughout the larger company in order to improve operating
standards and build volume sales. With this in mind we have selected the first 50 stores which will be converted
to the Morrisons brand. The work of benchmarking all the own label products of both companies is approaching
completion and the results will enable us to simplify the supply chain and maximise production efficiencies.
Operating as a sales driven company, with the customer always of prime concern, will result in increased
volume sales and help to ensure job opportunities in sales and distribution. The difficulty of obtaining firm
information before 8 March 2004 has been a handicap but we are rapidly catching up with important details of
the Safeway business. We have sought to update all our new colleagues on our plans for the future and all areas
of the business were kept informed through presentations from the Hayes head office. Firm plans are in place
for the run down of the Hayes office and its ultimate disposal.
I would like to welcome all our new colleagues from Safeway and hope that I can count on their support through
a period of hard but exciting work.
Prospects
The Morrison business is presently in very good shape with store takings in the first 8 weeks of the current year
increasing by 14 9%, with like-for-like stores 9 4% ahead, or 9 2% higher excluding petrol. It is our intention to
convert the larger Safeway stores to the Morrison format in a rolling programme throughout the next months,
which, coupled with the current development programme, will ensure further growth.
Our current trading strength illustrates how we understand our market and, most importantly, how we recognise
the needs of our customers. We have in place a competent team which will extend our success in serving up
good, honest value for money to all customers, new or old. I see another good year of progress in prospect.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11 00 am on Thursday 20 May at the Hanover International Hotel,
Mayo Avenue, Bradford, West Yorkshire. I will update you at the meeting with further details of the company's
progress. If you are unable to attend, may I please ask you to vote on the resolutions by either using the
enclosed form of proxy or electronically as detailed in the notice of meeting (page 5 note 2).
The record date for the final dividend is 23 April and the dividend will be paid on 24 May.