 6
Annual report and financial statements 2012/13 Performance and strategy review
Chairman's review -  
delivering value in the short term and for the long term
As anticipated, market conditions  
during the year have been challenging 
with ongoing commodity inflation 
continuing to put further pressure  
on household budgets and an already  
fragile consumer confidence. 
Against this difficult backdrop, Morrisons has worked hard to 
deliver a unique combination of value, freshness and quality to  
its customers. Although our overall performance has not been as 
good as we would have wished, an increase in underlying earnings 
per share and a significant increase in the dividend demonstrate 
both the resilience of our business model in a tough economic 
environment and the Board's confidence in the future. 
At the start of the year, we outlined a range of strategic initiatives: 
the essential building blocks needed to support the development 
of our business. These initiatives will enable us to deliver, over time, 
profitable sales growth, make Morrisons more efficient and secure 
new growth opportunities to deliver enhanced long term value  
to shareholders. I am delighted to report that we have made  
real progress in all these areas, particularly in the accelerated 
development of our convenience store programme and our 
decision to launch Morrisons online food offer in 2014.
We will continue to implement a wide range of measures to address 
the sales performance of the business, and progress our strategic 
initiatives in order to provide a platform for successful long term 
growth. Our expectations are that the challenging consumer  
and market environment we saw in 2012 will persist through  
the coming year.
Operational highlights
Underlying profit  
before tax
 901
m
Underlying earnings  
per share
27 .3
p
Final proposed 
dividend per share
8.31
p
Profit share pool  
for colleagues
 46
m
Raised for Save  
the Children charity
 2.1
m
Results
Profit before tax of  879m was 7% below prior year. The underlying 
operating margin of 5.2% fell by 30bps compared to last year. 
Adjusting for the impact of a higher proportion of fuel sales in 
the mix this year, the reduction was 20bps.
Net finance costs were  70m, an increase of  44m over the  
prior period, of which  17m related to IAS 19 pension interest.  
The balance was primarily a result of a planned increase in net  
debt arising from an additional investment in capital expenditure 
and an acceleration of the equity retirement programme.
Our strategic objectives 
See page 12 for further information
How our KPIs link to strategy 
See page 14 for further information
See our report
visit: morrisons.co.uk/corporate/ar2013
Sir Ian Gibson
Chairman 7
Performance and strategy review
Governance 
Financial statements 
Underlying profit is calculated after removing property disposals, 
multi-channel and convenience development costs and IAS 19 
pension interest. Underlying operating profit of  950m fell by 
 24m (2%) when compared to the prior year, with underlying  
profit before tax of  901m down by 4%. 
Underlying basic earnings per share (EPS) increased by 7% to  
27 .3p (2011/12: 25.6p) with a reduction in the rate of corporation 
tax and the positive impact of the Group's equity retirement 
programme more than offsetting a reduction in underlying 
earnings. Statutory basic earnings per share of 26.7p were  
in line with the previous year.
In accordance with our policy of increasing the dividend in line with 
underlying earnings growth, subject to a minimum increase of 10% 
in each of the three years to 2013/14, the Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 8.31p per share. This brings the total dividend 
for the year to 11.80p, an increase of 10% on 2011/12. The 
dividend is covered 2.3 times by underlying earnings.
Cash flow from operations of  1,432m was  168m (13%) higher 
than in the previous year, primarily as a result of improved working 
capital management. 
As anticipated, capital expenditure and investments rose slightly  
to  1,016m, an increase of  115m (13%) over prior year. This 
capital investment reflected a planned acceleration in our new 
store opening programme, continuing investments in Evolve,  
our industry leading IT systems development programme,  
and continuing expansion of our vertical integration capacity.  
It also included new investments to support our multi-channel 
expansion, through the addition of new Kiddicare stores and in  
an online shopping capability. We will continue to accelerate  
these essential investments in future growth and expect capital 
expenditure in 2013/14 to be  1.1bn, which includes  150m  
for multi-channel development.
A further  579m was invested in our equity retirement programme 
of which  65m related to the purchase of shares held in treasury. 
By the end of the financial year, a total of  947m had been invested 
and 312m shares had been cancelled in the period since we 
commenced the programme in 2011. We have now met our 
objective of returning  1bn to shareholders, in addition to normal 
dividend payments, over the two years to March 2013. The 
programme has had a positive impact of 4.2% on our reported 
underlying earnings per share in the year, and will have a further 
positive impact in the year ahead. 
Net debt rose as expected to  2,181m (2011/12:  1,471m), 
reflecting these investments and increased tax payments. This 
brings our gearing to 42% - which remains a conservative level  
for the sector. 
In line with its stated principles, the Group continues to maintain  
a strong balance sheet position. This is securely financed by a 
number of long dated bonds and revolving credit facilities at 
competitive rates. During the period we strengthened our financial 
position by increasing the funds available to the Group and 
extending the maturity profile of our borrowings. We increased  
the revolving credit facilities we have with our banks, which are 
available until 2016, by a further  150m to  1,350m. In July  
2012 we issued a  400m sterling bond to institutional investors 
repayable in 2026, and in November 2012 we agreed a  200m 
term loan with our bankers, repayable in 2014. 
At the year end the Group had committed but undrawn facilities  
of  675m and a strong investment grade from Moody's.
 
In March 2012 we introduced Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 
as a key performance measure, emphasising our focus on capital 
discipline which was reflected in our decision to reduce planned 
capital expenditure during the year by  200m. ROCE fell slightly 
during the year to 9.6%, a consequence of like-for-like performance 
headwinds. We will continue to focus on delivering improvements 
in this key measure over the coming years, although the immediate 
priority is on driving our sales performance.
Industry recognition 
Morrisons is committed to providing its customers with great 
service and shop keeping, and to making it a great place to work  
for our colleagues. This has again been recognised with a number 
of prestigious industry awards. These include Grocer of the Year; 
Employer of the Year, for the third year in a row; Best Service at  
the Grocer Gold awards; six Grocer Own Label Food and Drink 
awards and Retail Week Employer of the Year for the second 
successive year.
Community and the environment 
Our customers expect us to trade responsibly. We are committed 
to working with the communities in which we operate, maintaining 
ethical standards and managing resources carefully.
Food matters to us; where it comes from and how it's produced. 
Over the past year we have increased our support for British dairy 
farmers and invested further in research into the long term viability 
of British farming. We continue to support the Government's 
Public Health Responsibility Deal and have committed to join  
a consistent national scheme of front of pack labelling. 
Our Let's Grow programme, which aims to support the next 
generation of food growers, is currently in its fifth year and we 
have donated  18m of gardening equipment to schools.
We have made good progress towards our long term energy 
reduction targets. Our colleagues and customers always go the 
extra mile to support our selected charity. For the third consecutive 
year we have worked with Save the Children and this year raised 
over  2.1m. 
Our colleagues
These awards could not have been achieved without the dedication, 
hard work and passion of all our 129,000 colleagues throughout 
the business who every day seek to make Morrisons  Different and 
Better Than Ever' for the c11 million customers on average who 
visit our stores each week. I am delighted that their efforts have 
enabled them to share a profit share pool of  46m this year. 
We believe in creating long term partnerships with our colleagues 
by giving them the time, qualifications and support they need to 
develop their skills. We have maintained our position as the largest 
provider of apprenticeships in the UK with over 11,000 apprentices 
graduating during the year. We have supported this by provision  
of over 750,000 training days, the introduction of a number of 
specialised development courses and the creation of Morrisons 
Centre of Excellence. 
On behalf of the Board, I want to express our thanks to every one 
of our colleagues for their dedication, professionalism and service 
throughout the year.