 The trading performance for the year to 31 March 2006 has 
followed in line with the expectations contained in previous 
statements.  Turnover increased during the year principally as a 
result of the acquisition of Labour Systems International (LSI). The 
overhead increase year on year follows the planned investment in 
resources associated with the introduction of the group's five year 
growth plan.
The Balance Sheet remains strong with cash balances and money 
market deposits of  3.8million.
The WorkPlace Agenda 2010, the group's strategic plan for growth, 
has now completed its first phase with the investment in key sales 
staff, marketing development, development management and 
infrastructure improvements.  The increased sales and marketing 
activity is beginning to show the benefit of increased investment 
demonstrated by improvements in the order pipeline.
In September 2005, WorkPlace acquired Labour Systems  
International Inc (LSI), a US consultancy firm specialising in  
Retail Consultancy.  The acquisition is an important element  
of the Board's objective of establishing a world-wide Workforce 
Management Consultancy business within the group.
Financial Results 
Turnover for ongoing operations for the year to 31 March 2006 
was  7.5million (2005:  7.7million) and turnover for acquired 
operations was  0.8million (2005: Nil). Gross margins were  
maintained at similar levels to the previous financial years 
- 2006:96% - 2005:95%. Operating loss before amortisation  
of goodwill for ongoing operations was  1.3million (2005:  
 19,000 profit) and for acquired operations  20,000 (2005: Nil).  
Amortisation of goodwill was  383,000 (2005: Nil) giving an  
operating loss of  1.7million (2005:  19,000 profit).  Net  
interest received was  241,000 (2005:  344,000).  Loss before tax 
was  1.5million (2005:  363,000).  A tax claim for research and 
development relief has resulted in a receipt of  95,000 during the 
year.  The recurring revenues received from Annual Use Licences 
and Managed Services were  4.1million (2005:  3.9million) and 
account for 49% of turnover (2005: 51%). 
Cash Flow
The purchase of LSI for  3million cash in September 2005 was the 
most significant impact on the group's cash resources during the 
year. Net cash outflow from operating activities was  1.4million 
(2005: 0.3million). The Board continues to manage working  
capital carefully and at the year end cash and money market 
deposits were  3.8million (2005:  8.1million).
Chairman's Statement
2
WorkPlace Systems International plc  31 March 2006 Dividend 
WorkPlace has applied FRS21 (Events After the Balance Sheet 
date ).  Under this financial reporting standard dividends which 
have not been approved at the Balance Sheet date are not  
recognised as liabilities.  Accordingly, adjustments have been 
made to previously reported financial statements and the profit 
and loss account for the year to 31 March 2006 shows a dividend 
payment of  36,000 which was the amount previously provided  
in the accounts for the year to 31 March 2005.
In accordance with its published dividend policy, the board is not 
recommending a dividend payment as a loss was made for the 
year to 31 March 2006.
LSI Acquisition
On 16 September 2005 WorkPlace acquired the trading assets  
of LSI, a leading US consulting firm specialising in Consultancy  
and Engineering Services for Retail Workforce Productivity 
Improvement and in the implementation in the US of Workforce 
Management Systems.  The acquisition price was  3.3million 
made up of  3million cash on completion and the issue of a  
further 3million WorkPlace ordinary shares on specified dates  
over the next two years.
As stated at the time of acquisition, the Board believes the  
acquisition of LSI complements the existing WorkPlace business  
in two significant ways:
1. the strategic alignment of the WorkPlace US sales operation 
with LSI's implementations, experience and credibility creates a 
significant market presence and increases the opportunity of  
securing new business in the USA for WorkPlace Workforce  
Management Software; and 
2. the ability to offer LSI's workforce productivity services to 
WorkPlace's existing and potential clients world-wide providing an 
immediate opportunity for additional growth.
 
Following the acquisition, a detailed appraisal of the LSI  
business has been carried out by WorkPlace Board of Directors in 
conjunction with LSI senior management.  A review of business 
and marketing strategy has taken place to maximise opportunities 
for LSI both in the US and the world-wide markets together with 
the added benefits which LSI can bring to the existing WorkPlace 
business.
Business Performance
The Board is pleased to see that the results of the increased sales 
and marketing activity in the UK which commenced during the 
year is showing in increased sales pipeline levels. The impact on 
revenues during the year to 31st March 2006 is small because of 
sales cycle lead times but future revenues will benefit.
The increased interest in Workforce Management systems in 
the UK has resulted in a number of signed contracts during the 
period to date; Next plc, Focus DIY, London Eastern Railway (part 
of National Express Group), Staffordshire Ambulance NHS Trust, 
Menzies Aviation plc, Travelex UK Ltd. and E.ON UK plc.
WorkPlace activity in the US retail market has increased  
significantly following the purchase of LSI. The ability to offer  
customers a full compliment of Workforce Management products 
and services has been well received and the US team move ever 
closer to the finalisation of significant orders in North America.
3
WorkPlace Systems International plc  31 March 2006
Chairman's Statement Developing WorkPlace's Business
In line with the announcement 3rd May 2005 to commit additional 
investment in Sales, Marketing and Development, the company 
has made significant progress in developing and increasing its 
business presence and opportunity in the Workforce Management 
market.
Building on the synergies between WorkPlace technology and 
experience and the existing service propositions from LSI  
Consulting, WorkPlace has developed and launched a new range 
of services aimed at increasing the value and effectiveness of its 
Workforce Management software and consultancy solutions in 
order to increase return on investment for customers. 
With the launch of its hosted WorkPlace Lite offering, WorkPlace 
has extended its Workforce Management solution to smaller  
organisations. Initially aimed at smaller businesses in the  
hospitality sector, the solution has the potential to service many 
other sectors at this level. In addition WorkPlace has launched its 
ChangePlanner technology which enables organisations to  
investigate quick ways to improve their existing staff scheduling. 
To increase revenue, WorkPlace has doubled its UK sales team 
in the retail and hospitality sectors. To support this investment, 
a new global marketing team has been established to increase 
the company's profile and to generate a new pipeline of sales 
opportunity. A new Customer Relationship Management system 
has been implemented to improve sales management and better 
direct marketing activity. 
To increase the impact and effectiveness of marketing activity 
and to reinforce the change process the company has undertaken 
in the 2010 Strategy Plan, a new corporate signature has been 
launched. This new signature and the accompanying style guide 
provide a fresh and exciting look to WorkPlace's sales and  
marketing collateral and website and help differentiate  
WorkPlace from the competition. 
WorkPlaces' profile in the sector and technology press has been 
raised significantly through the appointment of PR agencies in 
both the UK and the US, returning a step change in positive press 
coverage. Similarly, WorkPlace has established relationships with 
analysts including AMR Research and Gartner, receiving positive 
reviews in competitive rankings. WorkPlace has also established 
active working relationships with leading partners such as IBM, 
gaining accreditation with their  Store Integration Framework' (SIF) 
and with Microsoft, recently winning the Microsoft 2006 Retail 
Application Develop Award(RAD) for the WorkPlace Strategic 
Scheduling Software product. 
WorkPlace continues to focus on its customers and following a  
recent survey of the entire customer base, WorkPlace has  
scheduled meetings with the main customer segments to help 
them increase the value and contribution from their investment in 
WorkPlace solutions and to provide vital feedback for future  
product development and improvements in customer support.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Competitive pressure in the markets in which the group  
operates is a continuing risk for the group, which could result in it 
losing sales to its key competitors. The group manages this risk by 
providing quality product functionality and a high level of service, 
and by maintaining strong relationships with customers.
Details of the key financial risks to which the group is exposed, 
and policies for their management, are included within note 25 to 
the financial statements.
Outlook
The increased investment necessary to implement the 5 year 
growth plan is now substantially complete. The integration of  
LSI, an accelerating sales pipeline and the current level of sales 
contract negotiations are evidence of the early success of  
the plan.
Whilst the additional costs associated with the plan will continue 
to impact the first half results for the year to 31st March 2007 the 
Board expects to see a significant improvement in the second half 
performance.
Ian F Lenagan, Chairman and CEO
28 June 2006
Chairman's Statement
4
WorkPlace Systems International plc  31 March 2006