 Directors' Report: Business Review
Chairman's letter
Following six consecutive years of strong growth, 2010 was 
a year of robust performance across the Group - in the midst 
of market challenges. We continued to achieve progress by 
developing the business within a clear strategic framework 
(see page 14). 
BAE  Systems has a well-established strategic planning process 
that generates clear objectives cascaded throughout the 
business. The strategy is continually reviewed, and is evolved  
as objectives are achieved allowing us to proactively address 
changes in the business environment. We believe this structured 
approach provides clarity of our strategic direction for both our 
external stakeholders and for our employees.
There are three essential elements to the Group' s strategy which 
have been incorporated into the Group Strategic Framework for 
2011. Firstly , the Group plans to operate and target growth in the 
defence and security market segments of Services, Electronic 
Systems and Platforms. Secondly , to build upon the geographic 
diversity which has fostered growth to date, the Group will target 
growth in existing home markets and develop new home markets. 
Finally , building on its existing Platforms activity , the  Group will 
target growth from export business. 
The difficult global economic environment for many of our 
customers is inevitably being felt in a business that works closely 
with governments. BAE  Systems has an excellent track record of 
adapting to market pressures and, whilst there will be  challenges, 
such changes can present opportunities to generate new 
business and help customers deliver capability in  a more cost 
effective way . Within the Group' s Services activities there are 
numerous examples where we have enabled the armed forces to 
achieve large cost savings and to provide better value capability . 
We believe there is further scope for value to be derived from 
the  way defence capability is generated, in particular where 
traditional boundaries between industry and the armed forces 
can be changed. We look forward to continuing to help provide 
value enhancing solutions for our customers in this more difficult 
environment.
Recognising that security has become an increasing priority 
for  governments alongside their traditional commitments 
to  defence, our strategy has evolved to address these new 
opportunities. In particular , the Group is building a strong  
position in the Cyber & Intelligence domain.
In addition to pursuing financial goals, we remain committed 
to  becoming recognised as a leader in business conduct.  
We attach great importance to the way we do business as well  
as to  the results we achieve. We are approaching this through  
the development of a more integrated drive for performance 
in  all  aspects of our business life. Good progress has been 
 BAE Systems  
delivered a solid 
performance in  
2010, building on  
the progress in  
recent years.  
Dick Olver 
Chairman
A robust  
governance  
structure underpins 
the delivery of the 
Group's strategy
6 www.baesystems.com  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 7
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
made  in embedding these principles of T otal Performance, 
including the setting of financial and non-financial objectives 
for  management. This year' s inclusion of the Corporate 
Responsibility report within the pages of this Annual Report 
reflects this more integrated approach.
Achieving a culture of T otal Performance depends on all our 
employees living a common set of Values - T rusted, Innovative 
and Bold - in their day-to-day work. Shared values and a global 
Code of Conduct are particularly important in our increasingly 
diverse global business. 
The report published by the Woolf Committee in 2008 has been 
an important framework for the programme of ethical awareness 
which extends throughout the Group. We are on track to achieve 
implementation of the Woolf Committee recommendations by 
May 2011. The Company' s core governance procedures and 
policies were reviewed during the year and updated to incorporate 
our Responsible T rading Principles.
In February 2010, the Company announced a global settlement 
of  certain regulatory investigations with the US Department of 
Justice (DoJ) and the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO), including an 
agreement with the SFO which provided for a payment of  30m  
for the benefit of the people of T anzania less any penalty imposed 
by the Court in connection with the agreed basis of settlement.  
A penalty of  500,000 (together with costs of  225,000) was 
imposed by the Court in December 2010. The remaining balance 
of  29.5m (together with interest) will be applied by the Company 
for the benefit of the people of T anzania in accordance with the 
applicable Company policies, including those relating to business 
conduct and the making of charitable contributions. The Company 
is in the process of creating an advisory board comprising suitably 
qualified and experienced individuals to guide the Company as to 
the possible approaches to the realisation of this objective.
Following the settlement with the DoJ, dialogue continues with 
other US regulatory agencies in order to address their concerns 
regarding matters arising from the settlement.
The composition of the Group' s Board continues to evolve. 
In  February 2010, Nick Rose was appointed a non-executive 
director of the Company . Phil Carroll and Andy Inglis, also 
non-executive directors, retired from the Board in May and 
July  2010, respectively . Harriet Green was appointed a  
non-executive director of the Company in November 2010.
Ravi Uppal has advised us that, in order to dedicate more time to 
his business activities in India, he wishes to stand down from the 
Board at the end of his three-year term on 1 April this year . I would 
like to thank him for the contribution he has made to the Board, 
especially the assistance he has provided in developing our 
interests in India.
George Rose, Group Finance Director , will retire from the Board  
on 31 March 2011 after 19 years with the Group. I would like to 
thank George for his very significant contribution to BAE Systems. 
Peter Lynas, currently Director , Financial Control, Reporting and 
T reasury , has been appointed Group Finance Director with effect 
from 1 April 2011, and will join the Board and  Executive 
Committee on that date.
The success of the business is built on the hard work, creativity 
and commitment of our workforce. I am pleased to be able 
to  formally recognise many of their achievements through the 
annual Chairman' s Awards. A new category was introduced 
this  year to recognise employees who have shown outstanding 
success in implementing our T otal Performance culture. 
In addition to BAE  Systems' own programme to recognise the 
achievements of our people, we were delighted to also see 
external recognition. William McLachlan, a Safety , Health and 
Environment Advisor for Surface Ships, was made a Member of 
the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for services to charity , and 
Howard Robinson, Senior Support Engineer T ornado Software 
Support, was made MBE for services to the defence industry . 
High quality , insightful narrative reporting is an important element 
of good governance. Over the last few years we have looked to 
develop the quality of our reporting so as to provide a  fair and 
balanced view of the Company that is informative and accessible 
to readers. I am pleased that for the second year in a row this has 
been recognised at the ICSA Hermes T ransparency in Governance 
Awards, with our 2009 report jointly winning the overall Best 
Annual Report award in 2010. 
BAE Systems is performing well and the Group' s strong position 
on programmes that provide key capability for customers, 
together with a large order book, provides good forward visibility . 
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.5p per share 
making a total of 17.5p per share for the year , an increase of 9.4% 
over 2009. At this level, the annual dividend is covered 2.3 times 
by underlying earnings from continuing operations (2009 2.5 
times). Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 Annual 
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2011 to 
holders of ordinary shares registered on 26 April 2011.
Dick Olver
Chairman
The Board has  
recommended 
a final dividend of 
10.5p making a total 
of 17.5p for the year, 
an increase of 9.4% 
on 2009
I and my fellow directors are aware of  
the important responsibility we have for 
the good governance of the Company.  
We continue to review and evaluate the 
structure and quality of our governance 
arrangements with the aim of ensuring 
that they remain robust and in line with 
evolving best practice. T ransparency is  
a critical element of good governance, 
and this Annual Report is the principal 
means by which we express our 
stewardship of the Company.
p78-95 
For more information on our 
governance structure
0
4
8
12
16
20
10 09 08 07 06
DIVIDEND
(PENCE PER SHARE) 
11.3
12.8
14.5
16.0
17.5