  - 1 - 
Wren Homes Group Plc 
 
Chairman's Statement  
Year ended 31 July 2008 
 
 
Trading Results 
 
When I wrote my Chairman's statement in April 2008 for our interim results for the six months ending 
31 January 2008, I emphasised the difficult trading conditions. As shareholders will be acutely 
aware, the economic situation in the UK has deteriorated considerably since the spring of 2008 and 
has driven the housing market into a severe crisis which is considered comparable with some of the 
worst on record. 
 
Fortunately, the Board adopted a prudent approach to planned developments 18 months ago when 
market conditions began to deteriorate and postponed new building works. The company therefore 
has a smaller inventory of unsold housing units than might otherwise have been the case and by 
comparison with some of its competitors. 
 
That said, we have not been immune from the difficult market conditions and sales of the remainder 
of our retirement units at our first site at Warlingham, have slowed. Although the purchasers of our 
retirement homes are generally mortgage free, they are likely to have to sell their existing homes 
first, which causes a considerable delay to the purchase of their retirement home. The company is, 
however, still seeing continued sales, albeit at a slower pace.  
 
It is with these challenges in mind, that I report a disappointing loss for the year of  910,137 (2007: 
profit -  535,134) on turnover of  84,000 (2007:  2,218,000). 
 
In light of the difficult market conditions, the company is taking the opportunity to review and 
strengthen a number of its business practices and to reduce its cost base. The company has a 
manageable debt position and is in the process of renegotiating some outstanding loans that have 
come up for renewal. The Board believes that these measures will generate further revenues and 
produce a cost base which is more in line with the level of activity in the company. Further 
information is included below. 
 
Dividend 
 
Preserving cash is paramount in the current economic climate and although the company has 
sufficient funds to pay a dividend, your Directors have taken the decision not to pay one until 
property market activity returns to more normal levels. 
 
Measures to Strengthen the Company  
 
In a renewed focus on revenue generation and cash flow, the Board has already undertaken or has 
identified a number of measures to improve the company's performance.  
 
I have already mentioned that there remains interest in our original development of retirement 
homes at Warlingham, but that the conversion of interest to sales has been hampered by the 
inability of our potential clients to sell their existing homes, brought on by difficulties in the mortgage 
market.  
 
To address this delay, we have decided to offer potential buyers a part-exchange package, where 
appropriate. The properties to be assumed by Wren will be independently valued and will be good 
properties in the South East and typically two to three bedroom houses which will be readily saleable 
in a normal market. Wren will sell these properties immediately or rent them out until conditions 
improve and it is already in the process of letting a number of those homes that come into its 
possession through part-exchange. As a result, we are confident of selling the few remaining 
   - 2 - 
Wren Homes Group Plc 
 
Chairman's Statement (cont'd) 
Year ended 31 July 2008  
 
 
retirement homes at Warlingham during the coming months either directly or through part-exchange 
and receiving new rental income to offset interest payments where a part-exchange takes place.  
 
Where there are offers to rent existing units at Warlingham, rather than to purchase them outright, 
Wren will consider any letting opportunities and plan to sell them when markets improve. 
 
For our completed house stock, we have already taken the opportunity to secure rental income and 
have let nearly all our empty, unsold homes. This has nullified the effect of interest payable on 
financing associated with the development of those homes and will allow for the sale of those 
houses when conditions improve. 
 
The company has already reviewed its cost base in detail and has identified significant cost savings 
throughout the company. It has started the process for reducing costs so that they are more in line 
with the levels of company activity and the Board believes that with these savings in place, Wren will 
be better positioned until market conditions improve and new developments are ready for sale. 
 
As mentioned above, in order to improve cash flow the company will not be paying a dividend (2007: 
 121,267) 
 
With these and other measures as necessary in place, the Board believes that the company will be 
in a much stronger position going forward. 
 
Repositioning Wren in the Marketplace 
 
In my statement for our interim results dated 30 April 2008, I explained the importance of our focus 
on the second generation of retirement living, Extra Care  (defined by the Government as being 
positioned between traditional retirement homes and nursing homes), as a step closer towards the 
provision of a wider range of services to support the independent elderly so that they may continue 
to live for longer in the comfort of their own homes. This sector is now at the forefront of Government 
thinking because of the benefits it offers to those people who require increasing support but are still 
able to live an independent life. 
 
Wren's Extra Care developments will enable residents to receive extra care in accordance with 
changing needs over time and will support them with additional facilities such as 24/7 on-site staffing 
and care lines, a restaurant, a lounge/conservatory, a coffee bar, activities room, salon and 
treatment room, a laundry and other complementary support facilities. 
 
Work in Progress  
 
Wren has recently commenced the building works of its first Extra Care development at its second 
site at Warlingham in Surrey which will comprise 54 units. This building will be completed in Spring 
2010. It is encouraging that since building commenced in early November 2008, 110 people have 
registered their interest in buying a unit in this development. Wren hopes to have a register of 500 
interested parties by the time the building is completed. 
 
I am also pleased to report that planning permission for a development of 53 Extra Care units has 
been granted at our site at Crowborough and it is our intention to commence construction there as 
soon as possible. Other planning consents are expected in the near future. 
 
 
 
   - 3 - 
Wren Homes Group Plc 
 
Chairman's Statement (cont'd) 
Year ended 31 July 2008  
 
 
Capital Investment 
 
Towards the end of October 2008, a successful property developer, Dominic Wainford, confirmed 
the inherent potential of Wren by investing  4m in the company, in accordance with the terms of the 
agreement ratified by the EGM on 31 October 2008. It gives me great pleasure to welcome Mr 
Wainford to our Board and his experience will be invaluable as Wren expands its activities in the 
coming months and years. 
 
Bank support 
 
The Group's Bank has confirmed that it intends to continue its banking and financing relationship 
with Wren Homes and at the time of writing sees no reason why existing loans cannot be 
renegotiated and extended, with sufficient facilities made available to support the company. As per 
the normal course of business, the Banking facilities will be subject to approval by the Bank's Credit 
Committee. 
 
Going Concern  
 
As set out in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the group's working capital facility 
and loan agreements are currently being renegotiated with the bankers.  The Directors, after making 
appropriate enquiries, as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, believe that 
the Group, with the renegotiated loans and facilities, has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in the preparation of the Financial Statements. 
 
Outlook and Prospects 
 
At the time of writing, we are faced by a very difficult and challenging market which is in a constant 
state of change. Notwithstanding this, Wren is making steady progress and is positioning itself so 
that it can most effectively weather the storm and also capitalise on any improvements in market 
conditions when they arise.  
 
The Board is confident that the new business strengthening measures outlined above, together with 
planned developments, will substantially improve the group's outlook and prospects. 
 
In addition, Wren has continued to acquire sites under option and the Group has a substantial and 
growing virtual land bank, which underpins the confidence your Directors have in Wren's future as 
an Extra Care developer. 
  
Wren has an intentionally lean, dedicated and effective team of staff and I thank them for their 
loyalty and conscientious work during these difficult times, which will undoubtedly have its rewards 
for the company in the coming years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B Nathan 
Chairman 
30 January 2009 