 Xstrata recorded a very strong financial performance in 2008,
second only in the Company's history to the record year of 2007.
Xstrata's businesses achieved production records in a number
of its key commodities, successfully integrated and optimised
acquired operations, created a meaningful new platinum business,
commissioned new, lower-cost operations and achieved a seventh
consecutive year of real cost savings. Yet the Group's overall strong
performance for the year masks a period of extreme turbulence in
financial and commodity markets. The unprecedented speed and
severity of the financial crisis in the second half of the year dealt
a severe blow to global economic growth and led to sharp and
sudden declines in the price of most of Xstrata's commodities.
Strategy
The Board remains committed to Xstrata's long-term strategy
of growth and diversification in pursuit of value. However, the
financial crisis that has gripped the world's major economies and
most industry sectors has led Xstrata's Board and management
to direct attention to ensuring the Group remains robust through
the period of uncertainty that lies ahead of us. This short-term
imperative led, in the first instance, to our decision not to proceed
with a full offer for Lonmin plc in early October, in view of the
risks associated with the requirement to refinance a significant
portion of the acquisition debt facililties within 12 months. At the
same time, the Group took the opportunity to arrange a new,
three-year bank facility to refinance existing short-term debt,
removing any significant refinancing obligations for three years -
a truly valuable attribute in current markets.
Between August and early October, Xstrata acquired a substantial
stake of 24.9% of Lonmin. While, with the benefit of hindsight,
the subsequent decline in Lonmin's share price would have
afforded Xstrata an opportunity to purchase its stake at a lower
average price at a later stage, your Board remains confident that
Xstrata's significant stake in one of the world's leading platinum
producers represents a valuable long-term investment and adds
to Xstrata's strategic optionality.
My fellow Board members and I have remarked on the scale and
speed of actions being implemented across Xstrata's businesses
over the past few months to secure the Group's financial position
and preserve cash, amidst challenging conditions. From initiatives
to secure an appropriate capital structure, to innovative approaches
to significantly reduce capital and production costs to maintain
profitability even at current low commodity prices, it is clear that
decisive action is being taken at every level of the organisation,
as outlined further in the reports that follow. Of course, some
of these actions result in difficult decisions to suspend or close
higher cost operations. Where compulsory redundancies have
been unavoidable, every effort is being made to mitigate the
impacts on employees, their families and communities, including
through the provision of appropriate employee assistance
programmes and other support.
The successful development of Xstrata's strategy over the past
seven years has positioned the Group to capture the benefit of
recent historically strong commodity markets. It has also provided
Xstrata with an excellent pipeline of prospective internal and
external growth options. While current conditions mean that
capital expenditure at a number of Xstrata's projects is being
deferred or curtailed, Xstrata's management teams have been
careful to preserve our valuable acquisition and organic growth
8 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008
Overview
Chairman' s
Statement
Key points:
> Strong financial performance in 2008
> Swift response by Xstrata to the challenges
of the global economic downturn
> Substantial rights issue launched
> Well positioned to benefit from encouraging
medium- to longer-term prospects for demand
for commodities
Willy Strothotte
Chairman
To see a webcast of our results presentation,
visit www.xstrata.com options, which can be exercised as and when the conditions are right.
We look forward to resuming Xstrata's longer-term growth strategy
in earnest at the appropriate time.
Xstrata management's capacity and willingness to act quickly and
decisively has been underlined by the recent announcement of a
substantial rights issue. The proceeds from the rights issue will provide
a significant capital injection, allowing the repayment of debt and
providing a firm footing for future growth. Further details about the
rights issue and acquisition of the Prodeco coal operations have been
provided in a comprehensive circular and prospectus, sent to each
eligible registered shareholder and available from Xstrata's website.
All of the resolutions relating to the proposed Prodeco acquisition
and rights issue were approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary
General Meeting on 2 March 2009.
Governance
Xstrata benefits from a robust Board of some six independent non-
executives, three executive directors and two non-executive directors
nominated by Glencore International. An external evaluation of the
Board's effectiveness and performance was conducted in 2007 and
in 2008 the Board conducted an internal assessment, led by Senior
Independent Director David Rough. We are now implementing the
recommendations arising from these assessments, in particular to
address medium-term succession planning. During 2008, the Board
agreed that an external evaluation exercise will be regularly
undertaken every three years.
Robert MacDonnell has indicated that he intends to retire as an
independent non-executive director at the next Annual General
Meeting (AGM) in May 2009. Robert has served as a director of
Xstrata plc since its initial public offering and before that, was a
non-executive director of the former Swiss company, Xstrata AG.
During his tenure, he has overseen the significant growth of the
Company into a global mining major and I thank him on behalf
of the Company and Board for his guidance and the contribution
he has made to Xstrata's development over the past several years.
I am delighted to announce that Peter Hooley has agreed to stand as an
independent, non-executive director for election by shareholders at the
AGM on 5 May 2009. Peter held the position of Group Finance Director
of Smith & Nephew plc until 2006 and is currently a non-executive
director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Cobham plc and
a director and Chairman of BSN Medical. I am confident that Peter's
appointment to the Board will add significant value to Xstrata. Peter
brings with him extensive financial markets and corporate transactions
experience and a strong track record of creating shareholder value.
Peter has agreed to act as an independent external consultant to the
Board with effect from 3 March 2009 until the AGM.
Sustainable development
Xstrata's commitment to the principles of sustainable development
remains at the centre of our strategy and is increasingly integrated into
the Group's day-to-day management practices and strategic decision-
making. The most important of our many targets and objectives is our
aim that no fatalities or serious injuries are sustained by the men and
women who work at Xstrata. We did not achieve this objective in 2008
and I am deeply saddened to report that six workers lost their lives at
Xstrata's operations or projects last year. Safety is a particular challenge
during times of uncertainty and this is an area to which we will continue
to dedicate significant resources and management attention.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 9
Outlook and prospects
Economic prospects in 2009 remain uncertain. However, the
directors believe that some support for commodities is likely to be
provided by the significant stimulus packages announced by many
major countries, which prioritise commodity-intensive infrastructure
investment. Another positive development is the mining industry's
action to curtail uneconomic supply and limit the build-up of excess
inventories, which has occurred more rapidly and to a greater extent
than in previous downturns.
Notwithstanding the global economic downturn, the economic
development and urbanisation of emerging economies remains a
significant trend that is set to positively influence the fortunes of
the mining sector over an extended timeframe. With this in mind,
Xstrata's management and employees remain focused on taking the
appropriate action to ensure the Group remains well positioned to
weather current challenging conditions and benefit from encouraging
medium- to longer-term prospects for demand for commodities.
In view of Xstrata's rights issue to repay debt, approved by Xstrata's
shareholders at the EGM on 2 March, the Board has decided not to
pay a final dividend for 2008. We will, of course, review the potential
to resume dividends at the earliest opportunity, taking into account
the Group's financial position and prospects.
There is no doubt that 2009 will represent a challenging operating
environment for Xstrata and the mining sector as a whole. Your
Board has every confidence that Xstrata has the requisite skills,
management structure and financial flexibility to mitigate the risks
and seize the opportunities created by current economic conditions,
with the overarching objective of continuing to create value for its
shareholders over the long term.
Willy Strothotte
Chairman 10 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 11
2
12 Chief Executive's Report
17 Strategy
21 Sustainable Development
25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Strategy
Nickel at the Nikkelverk refinery
in Norway, where record nickel
production was achieved in 2008
<