 Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 201 1
Business review Governance Accounts
02
Corporate
Within Xtract, the direction for 201 1 was set in the 30 June 
2010 Annual Report where John Newton, the then Chairman 
spoke of Xtract continuing its transformation from passive 
investor to one with a much more active involvement in  
the operations of its investee companies and from having  
a diversified energy portfolio to one which is much more 
focused on traditional oil and gas . He also reported that  
a further business review is in progress involving the 
independent directors of Xtract and Elko in which the two 
companies have agreed to form a joint task force to identify 
the strategic options open to both companies .
One of the conclusions from this review was that Xtract should 
change from being listed on AIM as an investment company 
and seek to relist as a trading and operating company. In June 
201 1, as the first step in this process, Xtract made an offer  
to acquire all the issued and to be issued share capital in Elko 
Energy Inc (Elko ) that it did not already own. This offer to 
acquire the remaining shares in Elko set in motion the relisting 
process because, in making the offer, it meant that Xtract's 
existing admission to AIM as an investment company was no 
longer valid. Trading in Xtract shares was therefore suspended 
from 21 June 201 1, the date of the offer for Elko shares. 
Subsequent to this, the Company and its advisors prepared  
and issued a new Admission Document and applied to  
AIM for re-admission as an operating and trading company.  
This process, including the placing of 240,000,000 shares at 
1.25 pence and an agreement with YA Global Masters SPV 
to provide Xtract with a  12.5 million Equity Line Facility, was 
completed on 12 September 201 1. The enlarged Xtract Group, 
including 100% of Elko Energy Inc, was re-admitted to trading 
on 13 September 201 1.
This is my first annual statement as Chairman of your Company . 
It is clear that 201 1 has been a year of significant change both 
for the oil and gas industry and for Xtract Energy plc. 
General market sentiment throughout 201 1 was one of  
concern for the global economy and the future of the Eurozone. 
For the first half of 201 1, this concern was accompanied by  
a slow drift downwards in the oil price which, in turn, impacted 
the AIM oil and gas sector to reduce merger and acquisitions 
activity and make it difficult to raise investment capital. It is only 
in recent months, as this trend has reversed and the market 
has seen a steadily rising oil price, that confidence seems to be 
returning and merger activity is again on the agenda.
It is not clear how much this oil price rise is driven by political 
instability or by a return to global demand associated with 
growth and this increase in activity may still be fragile in terms 
of underlying support.
Chairman's Statement Xtract Energy plc  Annual Report & Accounts 201 1
Business review Governance Accounts 03
During the period of share suspension, on 1 July 201 1,  
the Company announced my appointment to the Board  
as Non-Executive Chairman. Effective the same date John 
Newton stepped down as Non-Executive Chairman and  
Mark Nichols stepped down as a Non-Executive Director.  
Post completion of the Elko transaction, on 12 September 
201 1, Mr Jeremy Kane was appointed to the Board. Mr Kane's 
appointment as a Non-Executive Director serves to provide 
continuity for the ex-Elko shareholders.
Portfolio
Another conclusion from the strategic review was the  
decision to continue the process started in 2010 to rationalise 
the portfolio so as to focus more on traditional oil and gas 
assets that could add value to the Company in the near  
to medium term. 
An early objective was to get wells drilled on the prospects  
that had been identified on the Denmark and Netherlands 
acreage held by Elko. This objective was achieved by (i) a 
farmout to Altinex Oil Denmark A/S (a fully owned subsidiary  
of Norwegian Energy Company (Noreco ) in Denmark  
and (ii) an agreement with Chevron E & P Netherlands BV  
to purchase Elko's licence interest in Blocks P1 and P2 in  
the Netherlands in return for an overriding royalty on possible 
future production and Euro 4.3 million in cash. These deals 
meant not only that the Netherlands well would be drilled 
at no cost to Xtract while retaining a royalty interest in any 
production resulting from the P1 and P2 acreage but also  
that Xtract had the funds needed to participate in drilling  
the Denmark well.
Noreco spudded the Luna well in license 01/1 1 in Denmark 
on 12 February 2012 using the Maersk Resolve jack-up rig. 
The well was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole, having 
encountered Zechstein, anhydrite and dolomite lying directly  
on weathered volcanics rather than the Rotliegendes 
sandstone reservoir as prognosed. The outcome not only 
absorbed the majority of our existing cash resources but  
will also result in a significant impairment charge in the first 
quarter of 2012 in respect of what is currently our core asset. 
The task now is to use the additional control point provided 
by this well to re-interpret the surrounding seismic to evaluate 
whether there is still a valid Rotliegendes play in the area.  
This activity is expected to yield results in the summer of  
2012. Only then will we have a firm basis on which to determine 
how best to proceed with the Danish acreage and whether  
it has any value to the Group.
Poor weather conditions offshore delayed the arrival of the 
Noble Byron Welliver rig for the drilling of the Netherlands 
well and Chevron spudded the P2-10 well on 1 1 January 
2012. Having cemented casing at the top Zechstein, Chevron 
have designated P2-10 as a tight hole in order to protect the 
proprietary technology being used to drill the well. The results 
of the well will be available during the summer of 2012.
The process of portfolio rationalisation has continued with 
agreements for Xtract to exit from Turkey (in 201 1) and the 
Kyrgyz Republic (in 2012), thereby avoiding further financial 
exposure while retaining participation in possible future 
production through royalty agreements in the case of Turkey 
and in the case of Zhibek receiving a 10.5 % interest in the 
shares of Caspian Oil and Gas Ltd.
In Australia, the Company has mineral rights over approximately 
2 billion barrels of oil shale contingent resources at Julia Creek, 
Queensland through its subsidiary Xtract Oil Ltd (XOL ). Xtract 
has sought to maintain these mineral rights in its portfolio 
at limited expense so as to retain the option to exploit the 
resource when technology and investment conditions indicate 
that an economic project can be justified.
During 201 1, Worley Parsons were commissioned to prepare  
a technical study on oil shale extraction methodologies and  
to recommend options that might allow value to be realised 
from this asset. This report is being used to determine a possible 
path forward for both Julia Creek and the Memorandum Of 
Understanding on the potential oil shale deposits in Morocco. 
A more detailed account of all these portfolio actions can be 
found in the Chief Executive's report.
Outlook
Our near term focus is on the Netherlands where the P2-10 
well is currently being drilled by Chevron. We are optimistic 
for the outcome of this well, and are also evaluating other 
opportunities in the Netherlands. However, the Company 
strongly believes that maximising the probability of exploration 
success requires a portfolio approach that includes a range  
of prospects with different risk profiles across a spread of 
acreage. In addition to the Netherlands, the Company is 
therefore continuing its efforts to source and progress new 
assets in other areas.
Xtract's strategy, since re-admission has been to seek to grow 
through targeted exploration in areas where discoveries can  
be brought into production and become cash generating within 
a reasonable time frame. However, exploration and production 
companies also grow by balancing investment between 
exploration, development and production opportunities.  
Xtract is not yet of a size where it has the resources for 
significant investment in the development and production 
stages of the life cycle. However, should the Company identify 
opportunities that complement its exploration effort, these 
may be considered for investment.
The Board remains focussed on unlocking the optimum value 
for all shareholders.
Thanks
In conclusion I would like to thank John Newton, my 
predecessor as Chairman, and Mark Nichols as a former 
director for providing the strategic direction for the merger  
of Xtract and Elko. I would also like to thank Peter Moir  
and Alan Hume our CEO and CFO respectively. Under their 
strong executive guidance and leadership, I am confident  
that Xtract will make the right choices for exploration success 
and production growth. 
Dated: 4 May 2012