 Accumuli plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Chairman's statement
 Our KPIs evidence the strong operating 
platform we have established and the 
avoidance, to date, of the risks 
inherent in making acquisitions. 
Highlights
 k Revenue growth of 12 
across most of the major 
product lines
 k Trading group EBITDA 
of  2.6m, a 30 increase 
on a like for like basis
 k Net cash generated from 
trading activities of  3.1m
 k Acquisition and integration 
of Boxing Orange
now complete, we continue to invest time 
and costs into the development of our product 
set which will allow us to ful l this aim in 
line with the needs of our customers.
Revenue for the year was  12.6m, which 
represented a growth rate of 12 across 
most of the major product lines of the 
combined group. Trading group EBITDA 
for the year (which is before plc costs) was 
 2.6m, which represents a 30 increase on 
a like for like basis for the businesses which 
came together under Accumuli as the 
bene ts of our strategy began to be borne 
out in gaining market traction and increased 
operational leverage. Group EBITDA was 
 2.1m for the year which equates to a 16 
net pro t margin. Cash balances at the period 
end were  2.0m, with  3.1m cash having 
been generated by the trading activities of 
the group. All these KPIs evidence the strong 
operating platform we have established and 
the avoidance, to date, of the risks inherent 
in making acquisitions.
Ac uisition of Bo ing range
Boxing Orange, an MSSP, and its wholly 
owned subsidiary Webscreen, a provider 
of a proprietary anti-distributed denial of 
service (DDoS ) appliance and service, 
were acquired on 15 April 2011. Initial 
consideration of  5.48m was satis ed with 
 2.73m cash and  2.75m in ordinary 
shares at 8.75p per share (the shares being 
subject to a two-year lock-in). At acquisition 
Boxing Orange had  0.4m in cash.
We announced on 29 September 2011 that 
shortly after this acquisition, and following our 
own detailed take-on review, we had identi ed 
anomalies in the opening balance sheet which 
had resulted in the understatement of deferred 
income and accruals of  0.5m. However 
there was no net nancial impact to Accumuli. 
As a result of these anomalies we renegotiated 
the basis of the contingent consideration 
payable from a maximum payment of  2.1m 
to  1.3m. On 5 April 2012 we con rmed that 
we had agreed the contingent consideration 
payment, based on a strong performance 
of that business during 2011, at  443,000. 
This has now been paid from the cash 
resources of the group.
Through a thorough investigation of the 
anomalies it was clear that the issues had 
been going on for a number of years and 
the actual nancial loss to Boxing Orange 
prior to acquisition exceeded  0.5m. The 
problems that were identi ed were not related 
to the conduct of the vendors and they have 
dealt with the rami cations of this matter 
in a professional manner. We continue to 
work with them to ensure we maximise the 
recoveries available to all parties and during 
the year we recovered  0.1m which has 
been included in separately identi able 
costs and income.
Market
Whilst the general macro-economic 
environment remains challenging, and with 
the economy navigating austerity and the 
combined impact of European governments 
reining in debt, there are still growth markets 
that we are targeting. IT Security spending 
continues to increase apace with Frost  
Sullivan  recently reporting that it expects 
the EMEA MSSP market to grow at 18 pa 
while Infonetics  expects the much smaller 
DDoS appliance market to grow at rates 
in excess of 20 pa. 
The proliferation of IP devices that can 
connect to a corporate network, combined 
with the migration of corporate data and 
applications to the cloud increase the 
number and range of IT security threats. 
Acronyms such as B OD   bring your own 
device (referring to individuals own personal 
devices connecting to corporate networks) and MDM  - mobile device management 
- are proliferating. The number, scale and 
publicity afforded to DDoS attacks has 
increased substantially with most people 
now aware of high pro le hacker groups and 
their capabilities.
New technologies are evolving constantly 
to manage, mitigate and protect against 
all these risks and legislators are reacting 
1  Frost  Sullivan, EMEA Managed Security Services 
Market Report, December 2011
2  Infonetics Research, DDoS Prevention Appliance 
Market Outlook, December 2011
 verview
I am very pleased to announce the results 
for the year ended 31 March 2012, our 
 rst full twelve month trading period for the 
combined Accumuli group. Our strategy 
is focused on acquiring complementary IT 
security service providers across a range 
of skill sets to offer a more holistic approach 
to IT security services and in the process 
become the UK's leading independent 
Managed IT Security Services Provider 
(MSSP ). Our progress in this task has been 
impressive and I can only commend and 
thank all employees for the contribution 
they have made during the period. The 
transition to a true MSSP continues apace 
and, whilst the operational integration is  Review of the year Financial statements Governance
Accumuli plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05 www.accumuli.com
 e have made good progress in the rst part 
of our strategy to position ourselves as a 
successful MSSP business. ur strategy 
is focused on becoming the UK's leading 
independent MSSP . 
to the threats (real and perceived) by 
increasing compliance burdens. 
Security Information and Event Management 
(SIEM ) - the use of software to correlate and 
report information in a meaningful way from 
a variety of devices and sources to identify 
potential IT security threats to an organisation 
- is a growing service. The need for SIEM is 
being driven by a range of factors: regulation, 
complexity of corporate networks, ever 
increasing sophistication of security threats 
and the need to sort the wood from the trees  
amongst the many millions of logs/feeds 
taken from devices across a corporate 
network. In many ways SIEM is the uni ed 
communications  of the IT security industry. 
The overall picture of the market therefore is 
one undergoing fast change but with signi cant 
growth opportunities for companies that 
adopt the correct strategy.
 perational development
During the period we have sought to build 
on the legacy of the individual businesses to 
expand the depth and range of our product 
base. In uly, with the exception of the 
Webscreen business, we re-branded the 
other operating businesses under Accumuli 
Security - Advanced Security Solutions . 
We have recognised the importance of our 
own intellectual property (IP ) by keeping 
the Webscreen business separate and by 
monitoring the performance of the IP 
components separately at board level 
and by allocating speci c budgets to the 
development of these assets.
After the initial integration of the businesses, 
which resulted in the saving of duplicated 
costs and roles, we embarked on a full audit 
of the technical capabilities of the business 
which has recently resulted in an investment 
in the SIEM area of the business.
One component of our investment rationale 
for acquiring the Boxing Orange business was 
its SIEM capability. We have undertaken an 
exercise to build on this edgling expertise 
and in the process have selected LogRhythm 
as our SIEM platform of choice for our own 
managed service. We expect to further build 
on our SIEM capability over the next twelve 
months. A strong SIEM capability will allow 
us to engage at a higher, more strategic 
level with our customers and also provide 
more cross selling opportunities across our 
customer base.
Operational developments are currently 
underway to increase our managed service 
revenues from a relatively low base of 17 
and signi cantly enhance cross-selling 
opportunities. The businesses have been, 
and continue to be, successful in selling 
their niche  IT security products, however 
further product development and innovation 
will be important for generating growth of 
the scale suggested by Frost  Sullivan.
We have also continued to invest in our own 
IP; DDAM v2 was launched in February 2012, 
we were rst to market with a Mware version 
of DDoS protection and we are currently 
enhancing Contingency Switcher (IPAM 
Disaster Recovery tool) for Cisco GSS. 
Webscreen is a valuable asset and we are 
determined to extract the maximum value 
through a programme of investment over 
the next twelve months. We have opened 
up partnerships with Redstone plc and 
Avnet Inc and are pursuing others and have 
also engaged a US west coast-based agent 
to investigate the potential for partnership 
with security manufacturers. 
One of the disadvantages with the nature of 
the protection that Webscreen affords is the 
unwillingness of its many satis ed customers 
to go on public record that they are using it. 
However in a recent high pro le sporting event 
we were providing protection for one of our 
clients that was safeguarding revenues at 
peak times of  40,000 per second.
Management team
This is my rst annual report as chairman 
and I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank Graham Norfolk for his contribution to 
the group as chairman over the last two and 
half years and look forward to his continued 
contribution as a non-executive director 
and chairman of the audit committee.
Since the end of September 2011 (and 
the departure of Will Palmer, trading group 
managing director) Ian Winn, nance director, 
Dean Murtagh, sales director, and Andy Aplin, 
technical director, have run the trading 
business on a day to day basis with strategic 
direction provided by the rest of the plc board, 
particularly Ian Smith and me. The nancial 
results are evidence that this combination 
has been successful, however, as we seek 
to transition to the UK's leading independent 
MSSP it is clear that we require a high 
quality chief executive of cer to continue 
to lead the change. We are currently in 
the process of making this important 
appointment and expect to make an 
announcement in the future.
 utlook
We have made good progress to date in 
the rst part of our strategy to create and 
position ourselves as a successful MSSP 
business with a signi cant component 
of recurring revenues.
We will continue to assess potential 
acquisitions that meet our investing criteria. 
Our current cash position and expected 
continued cash generation give us greater 
 exibility and speed to transact.
As ever we cannot achieve any of this without 
the skill, diligence and efforts of all our staff 
and we value the contribution of each and 
every one of them.
I look forward to providing further updates 
on our progress in the coming months.
Nick Kingsbury
Non-e ecutive chairman
22 May 2012