 DEAR SHAREHOLDER,
Whilst your company had another satisfactory year operationally and financially, the safety performance with three
fatalities and an additional eight lost time accidents was the worst recorded since operations commenced seven years
ago. The board, management and all employees extend their sincere condolences to the family members, colleagues
and friends who have so tragically lost loved ones.
In my last two letters to you, I expressed concern over the socio-economic environment and the impact of the prolonged
economic decline on Zimbabwe's infrastructure and your company. The situation that prevailed during the just ended
year saw a further dramatic deterioration in both the economy and in the general living and working environment.
Under the circumstances the operating results and the progress made on the Ngezi Phase 1 Expansion are notable
achievements.
OPERATIONS
The safety performance over the past year has been extremely worrying to your board and management and there
have been several interventions during the year in an effort to reverse the trend. There may have been an element of
complacency after the excellent results of the previous year but it is more likely that the deterioration is linked to the
overall socio-economic environment and our inability to react quickly enough to the changed circumstances.
There has been a country wide loss of experienced personnel resulting in a high proportion of new, young and
inexperienced operators joining the employee ranks. In addition, the out of work environment has deteriorated to a
point where most employees are distracted by non-work issues. Management have realised there has to be a higher
level of focus on safety and shareholders need to be aware that necessary short term interventions may impact on the
production ramp up.
ZIMPLA TS 2008 ANNUAL REPOR T  8
MIKE HOUSTON
CHAIRMAN
-
CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
ZIMPLATS O V ERV I EW
THE PROCESSING OPERATIONS
HAD A SATISFACTORY
PRODUCTION YEAR WITH A
RECORD 2.2 MILLION TONNES
MILLED, 3% ABOVE FY07. ZIMPLA TS 2008 ANNUAL REPOR T  9
There were no material environmental non-compliances during the year under review and both the Ngezi Mine and
Selous Metallurgical Complex (SMC) remain ISO 14001 certified.  
The  wellness programme , under which the company assists employees and their families through managing chronic
illnesses, grows from strength to strength as employee confidence in the scheme improves.
The company, in line with its mining strategy, continued to expand its lower cost underground operations which will
eventually replace the opencast production. The No. 2 portal had a full operating year and together with the No. 1
portal, which will reach full production by June 2009, produced 47% of the total ore mined. 
Management are currently considering an extension to the opencast contract for a further 18 months to maximise on
available mill capacity whilst the No. 4 portal is being developed.
The processing operations had a satisfactory production year with tonnes milled a record at 2.2 million, 3% above
FY07. However, this increased throughput was offset by a disappointing drop off in the mill grade, a result of lower than
forecast in situ grades particularly in the opencast operation, and the slightly lower mill recovery. As a result, metal
production and sales were 3% lower than the previous year.
Metal prices, particularly platinum, rhodium and gold remained buoyant throughout the year resulting in a higher per
ounce basket price than FY07. The higher metal prices more than compensated for the lower volume and as a result,
attributable profit for the year amounted to $124 million, an increase of 25% on the previous year.   ZIMPLA TS 2008 ANNUAL REPOR T  10
CORPORATE / STRATEGIC ACTIVITIES
Regretfully, there has been no progress in resolving the withholding tax on dividend issue although it did not
impact on the company in the year under review as all free cash generated was reinvested in the expansion
programme. However, management will continue to interact with the relevant authorities with a view to securing
a life of mine exemption in line with the spirit and contents of the mining agreement.  
Shareholders were recently informed that an audit report by the Government appointed firm Alex Stuart
International LLC (ASI) had made various adverse allegations against the company, all of which had been refuted.
As with the matter of Non-Resident Shareholders' Tax wherein Government undertook to enact the necessary
legislation to give effect to the exemption, which has not yet been done, the principal finding in the ASI report
originates from written undertakings given by Government which have not been followed though with the
enactment of legislation.
Shareholders were advised that the Zimbabwe Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Act was passed
during the year and that the legislation seeks to enforce a 51% local ownership in all foreign owned companies.
To date, the regulations governing how the legislation is to be applied have not been issued.
As shareholders are aware, Zimplats successfully negotiated an agreement with the Government in May 2006
whereby Zimplats released ground for empowerment credits. Your board has taken the decision that it will wait
until there is clarity in the regulations governing the legislation, particularly on the issue of empowerment credits,
before proceeding with any empowerment transactions. This type of legislation, unless accompanied by
regulations that provide significant flexibility in terms of the investor requirements of the various business
sectors, will have a very negative impact on the much needed foreign investment. 
Your company has secured power supplies to meet current requirements and management continues to explore
options to secure a long-term power supply to meet requirements beyond the Phase 1 expansion. The company
has a very good working relationship with the Zimbabwe power utility, ZESA.  
Due to the circumstances prevailing in Zimbabwe, Zimplats, like other corporates, has lost an abnormally high
percentage of its skilled and experienced personnel despite new remuneration structures designed to keep skills
on board.
Your board's decision in 2006 to embark on a major upgrade of the in-house skills development programme has
had a positive impact to date and will be fully operational in FY09. The deterioration or collapse of some of the
national training institutions remains a major area of concern as Zimbabwe has historically being able to provide
all of the necessary  professional skills required in the mining industry. Retention of critical personnel will remain
a major challenge until some time after normalcy has returned to Zimbabwe.
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Work on the previously approved Ngezi Phase 1 expansion project remains generally on schedule and within the
approved cost budget. This is despite the very difficult environment prevailing in Zimbabwe.
-
CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
CONTINUED
ZIMPLATS O V ERV I EW ZIMPLA TS 2008 ANNUAL REPOR T  11
OUTLOOK
Zimplats will achieve a major milestone in the last quarter of FY09 with production increasing by 90% .The company
will then have the capacity to produce 180 000 oz of platinum on an annual basis. The $340 million capital cost of
this expansion has been internally funded supported by an $80 million loan. Shareholders have forfeited dividends
since the commencement of operations in support of this longer term growth strategy.   
I mention the above because it is a clear reflection of Zimplats proven track record in meeting its investment
commitments in Zimbabwe and it is of concern to your board that despite these efforts the company is not given the
credit it deserves by certain sectors in government. 
There appears to be no solution in the short term to the current socio-economic crisis and your management team will
be severely tested in achieving the results one would normally expect in the current market. The fluidity of the situation
in Zimbabwe and the daily uncertainties faced should not be underestimated and the possibility of material cost
increases cannot be ruled out.
A resolution to the current political impasse is core to the rebuilding of the economy and to this end we welcome the
efforts by all involved to bring peace and stability to this very special country.  
Zimplats remains committed to its long-term expansion programme. However, as stated in my letter last year, the next
phase will require substantial processing capacity which will entail a significant investment from shareholders and
financial institutions. It will, therefore, be essential that a stable investment environment exists. 
These are extremely challenging times for the country and your company. 
In view of the need to preserve all available cash for the expansion project, no dividend has been declared. 
APPRECIATION  
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank management and staff as well as our team of contractors for producing a
satisfactory operational and financial result in a very difficult environment. 
The major shareholder, Implats, has as always provided critical support to Zimplats. On behalf of the board, I wish to
thank the Implats team.
In closing I wish to thank my fellow board members for their wise counsel and support during the year.
Mike Houston
Chairman
7 August 2008