 02
ZincOx Resources plc
he highlight for 2003 was the sale of the Shaimerden 
zinc oxide deposit in Kazakhstan for a substantial profit.
The transaction provided a significant initial receipt
with further upside through deferred consideration that relates 
to future production and the price of zinc. As a result, the
company made an after tax profit for the year of  1,818,787
(2002: loss  1,082,350). Earnings were 8p per share 
(2002: loss 6p per share).
Our plans to build up a major business recovering zinc 
from secondary and waste materials have been advanced
significantly during the year, by the ongoing development of
new technology and the formulation of regionally focused
strategies. We expect to be able to announce specific
recycling projects through the course of 2004.
Over the past few years the zinc price has been at very
depressed levels, about 30%, or US$400 per tonne, lower
than the long-term average price. While we expect zinc prices
over the long term to remain close to the historical average,
the purchaser of the Shaimerden deposit, JSC Kazzinc, was
concerned that low prices may continue for sometime. We
therefore formulated a structure for the sale that allows us to
benefit from the actual zinc price over the medium term rather
than the current depressed levels.
By structuring the transaction in this way we received 
US$7.5 million in March 2004 and, provided the zinc price
returns to its long term average, we can expect to receive a
further US$12-15 million spread over four years commencing
in 2007. This is effectively the equivalent of a cash flow from 
a small mining operation. We have, therefore, secured the
medium term future of the company and this has been
achieved without dilution of shareholders' interests.
We should remember, too, that the Shaimerden deposit 
was purchased only in October 2002 for a consideration of
US$200,000 mainly paid in ZincOx shares. Over the following
18 months we spent about US$1.5 million on the project. 
To have sold it as we have, represents an excellent return 
on our investment.
At our Jabali project, in Yemen, our partners have granted 
us an extension to the deadline for the completion of the
feasibility study that defines our 60% earn-in to the project.
The final part of the study has now commenced and the
various contractors involved in the multi-disciplinary team 
that is undertaking the work are being appointed. We are
aiming to have the study completed in early 2005. 
The recovery of zinc by leaching, i.e. dissolution in dilute acid,
followed by solvent extraction and electrowinning (SX-EW)
formed the primary technology of the company. This
technology was first applied to a primary zinc oxide deposit 
at Skorpion, in Namibia, when ZincOx's executive team
managed Reunion Mining, the operator of the project. The
Skorpion mine and refinery produced its first zinc in May 2003
and is steadily increasing production. Anglo American plc,
owner of the deposit, is delighted with the technology and 
has publicly endorsed the process. The technology that 
we developed for Skorpion, the cornerstone of ZincOx's
strategy, can now be said to have come of age, and this will
facilitate our efforts to raise finance for projects using this
technology.
Our leaching SX-EW technology is suitable for primary oxide
deposits that have both low grade and high impurity levels
and which cannot therefore be treated economically using
conventional processes. A number of industrial processes
produce waste products that contain significant amounts of
zinc albeit with a low grade and with high impurity levels when
compared to zinc concentrates. Such waste is similar in many
respects to the primary oxides we have been targeting over
the past six years. It is these waste materials that are forming
the focus of our recycling strategy, and it is therefore a natural
extension of the strategy we have been pursuing to date.
Our recycling strategy is concentrating on two types of 
waste, slags from lead smelters and dust produced from the
recycling of steel scrap in electric arc furnaces, Electric Arc
Furnace Dust (EAFD). The former contains 10%-14% zinc
while the latter contains 15%-25% zinc, this compares to a
grade of 7% zinc for a typical zinc sulphide deposit. Given
that the waste is free or subsidised, and that zinc concentrate
production typically accounts for over 50% of the cost 
of producing zinc in a conventional smelter, if the right
technology can be found, the rewards could be substantial.
It is not possible to recover directly zinc contained in the lead
slag by the leaching SX-EW process. The zinc can however
be concentrated using the well established pyrometallurgical
fuming process. The leaching SX-EW process can then be
used to produce zinc from this concentrate. The
pyrometallurgical fuming process can be undertaken with a
variety of equipment and we have examined several options.
T
No l J J Masson
Chairman
The sale of Shaimerden has secured
the short and medium term future 
of the company without recourse to
the shareholders.
'
 
Chairman's Statement 03
Annual Report 2003
While the process works well, the high cost of energy and
large capital cost of conventional equipment generally makes
the process uneconomic. However, last year we became
aware of a new type of equipment (Polykiln) that has the
potential to effect the same process, but very much more
rapidly and with far greater efficiency. The former leads to
smaller, and therefore cheaper, equipment and the latter
improves energy consumption. The reduced costs will, we
believe, allow the economic recovery of zinc from higher
grade, or already molten, slags.
Discussions regarding the acquisition of slag dumps or for
joint ventures with existing smelters is underway but further
progress is awaiting the confirmation of cost estimates 
in a pilot plant we have recently finished refurbishing in
Kazakhstan. Test runs are expected to start shortly.
The Polykiln process could also provide the best technology
for the Tsumeb slag project in Namibia, but since our option
agreement to purchase the slags expired before the pilot 
plant was operational and in view of the current low price of
germanium, we decided to let the option lapse. Our relations
with the owners of the Tsumeb slags remain excellent and we
are hopeful that a new option may be agreed after we have
tested the material in the Polykiln pilot plant.
Our leaching SX-EW technology can recover zinc from EAFD
and we have confirmed this in a number of tests on material
gathered from around the world over the past year. At the
same time we have been developing a different leaching
approach (MT Leach) that uses hydrochloric, rather than
sulphuric, acid. The MT Leach has the advantage that it can
recover lead as well as zinc, but the capital cost is greater
than for the leaching SX-EW process. Our work on the MT
Leach culminated at the end of the year in the application for
a patent to cover the process. We now have two important
leaching processes and we are formulating strategies
specifically designed for different regions of the world.
Our regional strategy is most advanced in the Eastern
Mediterranean where we are considering a project to build 
a new zinc plant to treat EAFD, in Turkey. Turkey is the 15th
largest producer of steel in the world, all of which comes from
the recycling of largely imported steel scrap. These recycling
activities produce significant quantities of EAFD. We are
receiving considerable support from both government and 
the steel producers for our plans and we expect to be able to
announce a specific project proposal before the end of the year.
In addition to the treatment of slag, the Polykiln also has the
potential to recover a high-grade lead and zinc concentrate
from EAFD. Such a concentrate would be an ideal feed for 
the MT Leach so that both lead and zinc metal could be
recovered. We hope to test EAFD in the Polykiln during 2004.
While we see recycling as the greatest area of growth for the
company, we continue to press ahead with our search for and
investigations of primary zinc oxide deposits. However as a
result of the Shaimerden sale, we have reviewed our target
size and decided that our time is best spent on focusing on
larger potential operations rather than smaller projects. The
smaller targets have the attraction of potentially providing a
modest near term cash flow but the attractiveness of this has
now been reduced since we expect further revenue from
Shaimerden over the coming years. As a consequence of 
this together with the disappointing exploration results, we
have decided to withdraw from the Las Damas project 
in Mexico.
During 2004 we have seen a significant rise in the zinc price in
US dollar terms, however the rise is very much more modest
when the price is expressed in almost any other currency. The
short term outlook for zinc remains uncertain but we are still
optimistic regarding the medium and long term price of the
metal as several zinc plants have closed in the past few years.
On the supply side there seems to be a genuine shortage of
new projects that can keep pace with exhaustion of older
mines, and demand led by China's meteoric economic growth.
While Shaimerden has dominated our news in 2003, 
I am confident that the hard work on recycling technology
undertaken over the past few years is finally coming to fruition
and that we will be in a position to share these strategies with
shareholders over the coming months. I should like to thank
all our staff and my colleagues on the Board for their hard
work over the past year and I am confident that this will be
rewarded by the development of new projects over the
coming year. I would specifically like to thank Bryan Morris 
for his service to the company who retired during the year 
at the same time as he retired from Teck Cominco Ltd.
N J J Masson
Chairman
21st June 2004
Above: Andrew Woollett (Managing Director) and No l Masson (Chairman)