 We remain convinced that our innovative approach to
recycling has the potential to enable us to become a signific -
ant low cost producer of zinc on a sustainable basis. Whilst
the global financial crisis has closed some doors in terms of
immediate financing, it will, however, inevitably lead to new
opportunities and our strong cash position gives us the
flexibility to embrace these new opportunities as they arise.
Shaimerden
We continue to receive deferred payments in relation to the
sale of the Shaimerden zinc oxide deposit in Kazakhstan. 
We received $15.7 million in January 2009 in respect of
production in 2008.  Under the terms of the sale agreement
further payments are due relating to 60,000 tonnes of zinc in
January 2010 and a final smaller payment relating to 9,826
tonnes in January 2011.   
Chairman's Statement
6
Andrew Woollett 
Executive Chairman
ZincOx is in a strong financial position having approximately
 64.5 million in cash; almost no liabilities and no debt at the
corporate level.  Furthermore, we remained profitable during
2008 with profits attributable to our shareholders of  4.6m
(2007:  11.4m) or 7.05 pence per share (2007: 23.33 pence
per share) due to the receipt of further deferred payments
from the sale of the Shaimerden deposit, and from which we
expect to generate cash during this year and next.
During the course of the year, we made huge progress with
the development of the Jabali Mine in Yemen and while there
has been some slippage in timing it remains within budget
and we look forward to it being in production within one year.
As a result of the economic uncertainty following the collapse
in metal prices in the autumn, it was decided to delay the
development of our first waste recycling facility in Ohio.
However, having raised approximately $72 million intended 
for the equity portion of this project in the first half of 2008, we
remain in a strong position to press ahead with the develop -
ment when project finance markets improve and such finance
is again available on attractive terms.
Jabali Processing Plant Site 7
ZincOx Resources plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chairman's Statement
 ZincOx is in a strong financial 
position having approximately 
 64.5 million in cash; almost no 
liabilities and no debt at the 
corporate level. 
expected imminently. All of the major processing equipment
has been ordered and some is already manufactured and
awaiting transportation to site.
As a result of delays caused by restricted access to the site
during the middle of 2008, first production is now expected 
in the first quarter of 2010. Over the past few years new mining
developments have almost invariably run over budget, some -
times spectacularly so; our development team, however, has
used the delay to seek keener pricing on various items and the
project remains within budget. 
The core mining team has been recruited and the initial
training of operators is completed. Mining commenced in
February 2009 and is building up in line with the revised
schedule.  During the remainder of 2009, mining will
concentrate on the removal of waste and the stockpiling of 
ore ahead of plant commissioning at the end of 2009. 
Jabali
In February 2008 we completed the financing for the
development of the Jabali Mine. The equity for this financing
was provided by the 2007 Shaimerden deferred payment
together with funds already in our treasury without recourse 
to shareholders. The balance of the US$216 million develop -
ment cost was covered by equity from Ansan Wikfs (48%), 
our partner in the Jabali project. and the issuance of an
imaginative project bond which raised US$120 million. The
novelty of this unique zinc price related bond structure was
recognised at the 2008 Mining Journal awards by ZincOx
winning the Outstanding Achievement Award for
Development Funding.
The development work at Jabali is progressing well. In
February 2009 we were able to hold a foundation stone laying
ceremony attended by the Yemeni Prime Minister. Our
progress with the development is cementing a strong relation -
ship with the Government of Yemen and our relations with
various local tribal groups have also improved. We have a
good working relationship under which we are maximising 
the employment of people from the local area. The site
levelling is complete and the laying of the foundations is 
Andrew Woollett receiving the Mining Journal's 2008 
Outstanding Achievement Award for Development Funding
Jabali Mining Team 8
 we are continuing to work towards our ambition
of a ZincOx facility in every major steel recycling
region of the world 
The development of our first recycling project remains a
priority for the Company, and we continue to discuss the
possibility of a joint venture with various zinc companies and
the consideration of the use of second hand equipment to
reduce the capital cost.  
In view of the shortfall in development finance, and our
general reluctance to proceed with a development of this
scale during these uncertain times, we decided to cancel
most of the bond facility put in place for the development of
the ORP. This helped us to recoup most of the costs
associated with the setting up of the facility.
While the credit crunch has certainly slowed down our
immediate development plans for the ORP, we are continuing
to work towards our ambition of a ZincOx facility in every
major steel recycling region of the world. I am delighted to
report, therefore, our entry into long term EAFD supply
agreements with all the significant Korean Electric Arc
Furnace operators in April 2009; these include some of the
world's largest steel companies.
Refining
The Company's wholly owned Big River Zinc smelter in the
USA has remained on care and maintenance throughout 
the year.  With the development plans for the ORP on hold for
the time being, so too are the redevelopment plans for Big
River Zinc. While the redevelopment decision is awaited, 
other activities are being carried out at Big River including the
toll washing of zinc oxide concentrates and the storage of
sulphuric acid for third parties. 
Peter Wynter Bee, Managing Director
and Simon Hall, Finance Director
Recycling
At the start of 2008, having successfully completed the Jabali
financing, our attention turned to funding the development 
of the Ohio Recycling Project (ORP ) through a combination
of equity and a high yield bond. The equity component was 
to have come from existing cash resources, new equity and
the remaining anticipated deferred payments from the
Shaimerden mine. The bond was structured as a facility on
which interest was paid at half the rate until it was drawn down,
with draw down occurring only after most of the equity had
been spent. Having raised the requisite new equity and
secured the bond facility, we started to plan the detailed engin -
eering required for the construction of the plant.
Following the sharp acceleration of the fall of the zinc price in
October, we could no longer rely on the Shaimerden deferred
payments for January 2009 and 2010 being sufficient to
complete our financing for the ORP as had been anticipated
earlier in the year. Given the considerable global economic
uncertainty, our existing substantial commitments at Jabali
and our belief that equity markets would remain closed for a
significant period of time, it was with some reluctance that we
decided to postpone the development of the ORP.
The marked fall in the zinc price significantly reduces the
amount of traditional project finance debt that the project can
support; furthermore project finance would require a sub -
stantial hedging programme that would tie the project to zinc
prices that many analysts believe to be unsustainably low. 9
ZincOx Resources plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chairman's Statement
 we have the projects, 
the people and 
the resources. 
Corporate
The zinc price roughly halved over the course of 2008, and
during October the fall was its most severe and dramatic.
Demand for zinc has plummeted, which is hardly surprising
given the collapse in several markets that are key for zinc
usage, such as the galvanising of steel sheet for new cars.
Unlike the case in previous downturns, the zinc industry 
has reacted rapidly and decisively to potential oversupply 
and many producers have announced cutbacks or even
temp orary or permanent mine closures. One of the reasons
for these closures is the difficulty, in the current credit environ -
ment, in maintaining a loss making operation by corporate
borrowing, as has been possible in previous downturns. As I
write today, the rise in zinc stocks seems to have stopped and
the price recovered slightly. In spite of this, many producers
are still losing money and it is difficult to tell whether anything
like a normal, albeit reduced, market has resumed.
Early in 2008 we recognised that the development of the 
ORP and the Jabali Mine required additional management
skills and experience to that which we had needed previously.
Therefore in the first half of the year there was a considerable
restructuring of the management of the Company and this
was reflected in board changes. Peter Wynter Bee took over
as Managing Director and two new executive directors with
responsibility for Project Development, Simon Mulholland,
and Production Operations, Jacques Dewalens, were
appointed. In addition, three new non-executive directors
joined the board, each of whom has considerable
international experience in the management of high growth
companies. The experience of these directors has been of 
considerable support and assistance to me during the
exceptional times experienced over the past six months. 
In May 2009, Guy Lafferty, representing our largest single
shareholder, H egh Capital Partners, agreed to join the 
board and at the same time John Thompson, representing
Teck, advised us that he will not be seeking re-election at 
the 2009 AGM.
I would like to thank Mike Foster for his very hard work for 
the Company over the past ten years, latterly as Managing
Director, and particularly for his perseverance and deter -
mination, without which I do not believe the Jabali project
would now be under development. I would also like to thank
Peter Fry for his contribution as finance director and subse -
quently as a non-executive director and Peter Beck for his
work as a non-executive director. Both served from the time
the Company was admitted to AIM until their retirement 
at the 2008 AGM. I would also like to thank John Thompson
for his contribution to the Company, especially in respect of
our evaluation of new technologies.
Indeed I would like to thank all our staff and employees for
their outstanding contribution over the past year. It has 
been a year of both achievement and frustration. When the
world economy begins to recover from the current turmoil, I
am confident that we have the projects, the people and the
resources not simply to weather the storm but to be extremely
well placed to benefit rapidly from the opportunities that will
have been created by these exceptional economic conditions.
Andrew Woollett
Executive Chairman
1 1 May 2009
ZincOx Board of Directors 
& Company Secretary