 2
It is with deep regret that I have to report the sudden and
untimely death in a tragic road accident of Frank Eaton, our
former Chairman and Chief Executive, on 7th October 2002.
Frank Eaton was aged just 52 years, a man of exceptional
ability and at the height of his powers at the time of his death.
He was highly respected throughout this Company, the entire
housebuilding industry and by all who came into contact with
him.  He joined the Company as a Construction Director in
1979 and became a Main Board Director in 1988, succeeding
Sir Lawrence Barratt, both as Chief Executive in 1991 and as
Chairman in 1997. His dedicated leadership, total
commitment and sheer hard work ensured that this Company
produced record results, year on year.  The period of his
tenure was one of outstanding achievement which stands as a
permanent testimony to his stewardship of the business.
The year to 30th June 2002 was the Barratt Group's most
successful year to date. We delivered record profits of  220m,
almost double our profits of 3 years ago, and ended the year
with record forward sales. We also extended to 10 years our
track record of increasing earnings per share by over 20% per
year. Most importantly, less than 4 months into our new
financial year we have already secured over 60% of our full
year's sales projections. Our very strong forward sales position
gives us great confidence for the year ahead.
Group results for the year ended 30th June 2002 are as
follows:-
  Pre-tax profit amounted to  220m against  178.4m the
previous year, an increase of 23.3%.
  Basic earnings per share amounted to 68.6p against
55.1p the previous year, an increase of 25%.
  A second interim dividend of 9.89p per share is
proposed to be paid, giving a total dividend for the year
of 14.38p, an increase of 10%, 4.8 times covered.
  Turnover rose to  1,799m against  1,509m the
previous year, an increase of 19%.
  UK completions rose to 12,250, up 8% at an average
selling price of  139,600, up 9.6%.
  UK land stocks increased from 35,100 plots to 40,050
plots, equating to over 3 years' volume.
  Net cash in hand at the year end amounted to  94.6m,
which highlights the emphasis placed on cash
management. This continued strong balance sheet
position was achieved notwithstanding a  160m increased
investment in our UK land stocks and work in progress.
  Return on capital employed was 31.6%, maintaining our
position amongst the highest in the industry.
These excellent results illustrate how we have further
strengthened all aspects of our business.
Throughout the year to 30th June the overall housing
market progressively strengthened, buoyed by a lack of
industry supply due to planning constraints, strong demand
and low interest rates. We were able to take full advantage of
market conditions, achieving strong sales and healthy price
increases with total sales reservations up by 12% year on year.
We benefited enormously from our total geographic spread
and from selling to all market sectors, at prices from  60,000
to  3m. We produced increased sales and profits in all of our
regional markets. In the North our markets progressively
strengthened throughout the year. In the South, the overly
buoyant levels we experienced from November through to
April moderated towards the end of our financial year to
more normal conditions. 
All our markets are now robust and sustainable, as
evidenced by our sales achievement since 1st July. All of our
regions are achieving strong sales with selling costs
unchanged from the previous year. New sales reservations
taken since 1st July are up 10% year on year, further
increasing our forward sales.
Mortgages are extremely affordable, and since November
2001 interest rates have remained stable at 4%. Whilst
interest rates may increase in due course, modest movement
above 4% would not be a restraint but would moderate peaks
and troughs and make our markets more sustainable.
We have benefited greatly from our policy of controlled
organic expansion, establishing operations in areas of proven
demand. Over the last 10 years we have increased our
network of housing divisions from 12 to 32. Of these, 24 trade
as Barratt Homes and 8 as KingsOak Homes. KingsOak, in its
second year of trading, increased unit completions from 485
to 1,094 and we anticipate a contribution of 1,800
completions this financial year.
Over the past 10 years we have consistently demonstrated
Chairman's Statement
Charles Toner, Group Chairman, Barratt Developments PLC. our ability to produce uninterrupted growth through varying
market conditions. During this period we have increased
completions from less than 5,000 to over 12,000 homes, and
profits and earnings per share by over 20% per annum. 
We are industry leaders in urban redevelopment with over
25 years experience and over 75% of our homes are built on
brownfield sites, comfortably exceeding the Government's
target of 60%. We benefit greatly from our skills in
developing the more complex brownfield sites and undertake
a wide range of schemes, from affordable homes to high-rise
luxury apartments. Our experience of developing for all
market sectors, including mixed use schemes, provides us
with the widest range of developments and land-buying
opportunities. The Group is well-positioned to maximise on
the current planning regime and Government emphasis on
urban regeneration.
We continue to demonstrate our ability to grow the
business organically, which is largely attributable to our land-
buying skills. During the year we acquired a record 17,200
plots, 40% more than we used, increasing our total UK land
stocks to 40,050 plots. This represents over 3 years' volume
and is in line with our growth requirements. In addition, we
have 4,000 plots under contract and a further 5,000 plots
agreed subject to contract. This amounts to over 49,000 plots
secured and being processed, equal to 4 years' supply.  
Our land teams were also highly successful in bringing a
record 16,000 plots through to planning consent, more than
any other housebuilder and more than sufficient to service
our requirements in the new financial year.
All land buying is stringently controlled and we continue
to secure sites in desirable locations of proven demand. The
quality of our land bank and control of our investments is
reflected in our financial results, whereby we have
consistently improved our margin and produced a return on
capital employed of 31.6%, one of the highest in our industry.
We have progressively strengthened our land bank to be
one of the largest in the industry and at the same time we
have maintained a very strong balance sheet, increasing
shareholders' funds by 20% to  760m. At the year end we had
 94.6m net cash in hand, notwithstanding  549m
expenditure on land.
Our operation in Southern California continues to make
good progress with profits up 17% to  7m on turnover up
15% to  123.8m.  Local market conditions remain favourable
with high levels of employment, good affordability and strong
demand. Our move to a more affordable product proved to be
highly successful, producing increased sales which more than
compensated for the anticipated lower average selling price.
Sales since 1st July continue to show a healthy increase with
selling costs in line with the previous year.  The overall
housing market is very similar to the UK and is underpinned
by low interest rates and a restricted supply. Our strategic
emphasis on re-investing in the better markets of Southern
California in sites of manageable investment, coupled with
our strong forward order book, gives confidence for another
successful year.
The Group commenced the new financial year in a very
strong position with a substantial increase in forward sales, up
30% to  620m. New sales reservations taken since 1st July are
up 10% year on year, further strengthening our forward order
book. All of our regional markets remain strong and we
continue to achieve price increases and our selling costs are
being maintained in line with the year just ended.
Throughout the Group we have been extremely successful
in maintaining a low cost base, which we see as critical to our
competitive edge. This emphasis on low overheads and
effective cost controls has benefited us greatly and will
continue to do so in the future.
Our management team has once again demonstrated its
ability to succeed and on behalf of the Board I would like to
thank all my colleagues throughout the Group, both office
and site based. Our record results would not have been
achieved without their hard work, enthusiasm and skill.
Following Frank Eaton's death the Board
acted decisively to implement its succession
arrangements.  In doing so, it has decided to
split the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive and has unanimously agreed to the
appointment of David Pretty, our Group
Managing Director, as Group Chief
Executive with effect from 18th October
2002. I congratulate David on his
appointment.  He has been a Main Board
Director since 1990, when he was appointed
Group Marketing Director. He became
Southern Region Chairman in 1991 and
transformed the operation into the Group's most successful
region and the largest housebuilder in London and the South
East. He has extensive experience in all market sectors,
particularly in urban regeneration, and is renowned within
the industry for his land buying and marketing skills.
I am honoured to have been asked by the Board to serve
as Chairman.  I joined the Board in May of this year as a Non
Executive Director and was subsequently appointed Vice
Chairman.  My previous career was with Abbey National Plc
for 35 years.  I was a Main Board Director from 1992 to 1999
and Deputy Chief Executive from 1996 to 1999.  I have since
held several Non Executive Directorships and was until June
2002 Deputy Chairman of the National House Building
Council. 
Looking ahead our corporate objectives and values remain
unchanged.  The Board is committed to continuing the
Company's successful strategy of improving earnings per share
and generating shareholder value.  The legacy of the last
decade is strong and we have an exceptionally strong team.
We are therefore extremely well placed to build on our
proven track record and we have great confidence for the
future.
3
Chairman 18 October 2002
Frank Eaton, former
Group Chairman and 
Chief Executive, who 
died on 7 October 2002.