 www.berkeleygroup.co.uk 3
I am delighted that, at the same time 
as announcing these exceptional results,
I can also announce our proposals for
the next phase of Berkeley's strategy.
Scheme of Arrangement and 2007
Strategic Review
In June 2004 Berkeley announced its
proposals to return  12 per share to
shareholders in conjunction with its future
strategy to focus on its urban regeneration
business. This was approved by shareholders
and effected by a Court approved Scheme
of Arrangement in October 2004 which
created four tranches of B shares. To date,
and in line with the original payment
schedule,  7 per share has been returned
to shareholders with the remaining  2 and
 3 per share scheduled for payment in
January 2009 and 2011 respectively.
Since 1st May 2004, the time of the
strategic review that led to the Scheme of
Arrangement, Berkeley has generated some
 820 million of cash before payments to
shareholders, demonstrating the underlying
strength of the Group and its ability to
generate cash and meet its strategic
objectives. This, coupled with the strong
forward sales position, has provided the
Board with the opportunity to review the
timing of the remaining B share payments
and consider the most appropriate strategy
for Berkeley once the B shares are paid. The
conclusion of this review is that approval will
be sought at the Annual General Meeting on
5th September 2007 to accelerate the
payment of the 2008 B share ( 2 per
share) by 12 months to the beginning of
January 2008 and to pay the final (2010) B
share of  3 per share at a date to be
determined but no later than the original
scheduled date of January 2011.
With regard to the future strategy, the
Board is seeking to replicate the key
features of the Scheme of Arrangement to
preserve the environment in which its
entrepreneurial management team has
concentrated on maximising returns to
shareholders through its focus on
optimising Berkeley's land holdings and
cash generation as opposed to the income
statement. This strategy is founded on the
Board's belief that the business has a
natural size, and is not scaleable in the
traditional sense due to the complexities of
developing and delivering sustainable
mixed-use urban regeneration schemes.
Attention to detail and quality together with
devoting the necessary amount of time and
management to every aspect of the
development cycle for each site is the key
to delivering value to shareholders and
creating the inspiring sustainable
communities that we, our customers and
other stakeholders demand.
As a result, following the completion of the
 12 per share Scheme of Arrangement
payments, the Board is proposing to make
annual dividend payments at a cover ratio
of less than 2 times. This will ensure
shareholders continue to see immediate
benefit from the Group's strategy, while
allowing the Board to maximise short term
opportunities under an unambiguous long
term strategy.
The Board believes that it is appropriate to
consult with shareholders on the
remuneration policy to bring this in line
with the proposed acceleration of the
remaining B shares and, looking forward, to
put in place a new policy aligned to the
next phase of Berkeley's strategy.
Accordingly, the Board will consult with
shareholders on its proposals during July
and August in advance of the AGM.
Results
Berkeley is delighted to announce a pre-tax
profit of  188.1 million for the year ended
30th April 2007. This is  23.0 million more
 102.0 million of cash 
generated before 2006
B share redemption
Business review - Chairman's statement
Optimising value
for all stakeholders
Roger Lewis Chairman
Sustainable
urban
regeneration
People
Partners
Shareholders
Environment
than the  165.1 million reported for the
same period last year, an increase of 13.9%.
Basic earnings per share from continuing
operations totalled 112.6 pence, an
increase of 11.4% on the 101.1 pence
reported for the same period last year.
Over the year, total equity has reduced by
 55.6 million to  781.6 million (April 2006
-  837.2 million) and net assets per share
by 48 pence (6.9%) from 697 pence to
649 pence. The 48 pence reduction is due
to the  241.6 million 2006 B share
redemption in January 2007 (200 pence),
offset by the profit after tax for the year of
112.6 pence; the revaluation reserve arising
from fair valuing the 50% of St James' net
assets already owned at acquisition (16.9
pence); and factors relating to accounting
for pensions and share based payments
(22.5 pence).
At 30th April 2007, Berkeley had net cash
of  81.0 million (April 2006 -  220.6
million) after generating  102.0 million of
cash flow in the year before the  241.6
million 2006 B share payments in January
2007; a net reduction of  139.6 million.
Return on capital employed for the year was
28.1% compared to 24.0% last time.
Sustainability
Although our focus remains the same,
much has changed in the fifteen years
since Berkeley took the decision to place
its business in the centre of towns and
cities. Above all there has been a step-
change in the way in which our society
thinks about the impact of what we do.
Keeping pace with this growing concern
with the legacy we create for future
generations has played a central role in
Berkeley's success; we have never
underestimated the scale of our
responsibilities and remain passionate
about meeting the challenges in the way
that is expected of us. Consequently, the
principles of sustainability have been, for
some time, a driving force of what we do
and how we do it. Bringing derelict
brownfield land back to life is inherently
positive, but we are spurred forwards by a
desire to further understand the reality of Grosvenor Waterside, London
 
A contemporary development of apartments
and penthouses built around two historic
London docks
 
Once complete, Grosvenor will provide 912
homes and some 35,000 sq ft of
commercial space
 
Including seven buildings designed by
leading architects, Grosvenor is creating a
new quarter in Westminster
implementing our policies, not just in
strategic terms, but on a day-to-day basis.
There are powerful reasons for doing so:
the Code for Sustainable Homes has had a
major impact on the development industry
and we have reviewed its requirements to
understand the commercial implications of
reaching its higher levels. We are also
responding to our customers, who
demonstrate increasing interest in living in
homes that respect the environment; our
people, who have become genuinely
passionate about sustainability; and, of
course, our investors, who wish us to
sustain value in the medium and longer
term. Alongside this, however, is a sense of
the opportunities associated with our role,
not just as part of the mix of forces that
drive the regeneration of urban areas, but
also as part of a wider community that is
attempting to understand the changes it
needs to make if it is to become truly
sustainable. It is this focus that, we believe,
helps enhance the value of our business in
the long-term in a way that in turn helps
build better futures for our customers. We
were delighted to have these efforts
recognised externally this year and to
receive the Building Award for Regeneration
Housebuilder of the Year, as well as
sustainability awards for Sustainable
Developer (Berkeley Homes) and
Sustainable Development of the Year
(Ropetackle in Shoreham, a development
undertaken in partnership with SEEDA).
Our People
Berkeley's success is driven by the passion,
dedication and innovation of its people.
The Group's philosophy is to devolve
operational responsibility and
accountability to autonomous management
teams and this creates an environment in
which these attributes flourish. Urban
regeneration is complex and it requires a
relentless attention to detail that can only
thrive if people are truly passionate about
what they do and are motivated to achieve
the highest standards. This deeply
embedded culture is what sets Berkeley
apart from its peers and makes it a place
where people at the top of their discipline
want to work.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders,
we would like again to express our
continued thanks and appreciation to all
those who have contributed to this year's
outstanding results and who will contribute
to the exciting future ahead for Berkeley.
Board Changes
After 16 years with Berkeley, the last eight
as Chairman, I have decided that this is the
right time for me to retire from the Board
and this will be effective at the end of July.
It has long been my intention to retire on
reaching 60 and with the business in such
good shape I cannot imagine a more
appropriate time. It has been a privilege to
oversee Berkeley's development and be part
of a dynamic first class executive team.
Business review - Chairman's statement continued I am delighted that Victoria Mitchell,
currently a non-executive director of
Berkeley and Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, has accepted
the position of Non-Executive Chairman to
succeed me and I have no doubt that she
will be a great success in her new role.
As announced in December last year,
Tony Palmer will retire at the AGM. Tony
has been a non-executive member of the
Board for nine years and is the senior
independent director. The Board would
like to thank Tony for his outstanding
contribution over these years. David Howell,
a non-executive director since February
2004 and the Chairman of the Audit
Committee, will replace Tony as the senior
independent director at the AGM.
During the year Alan Coppin joined
the Board as a non-executive director,
bringing with him a wealth of corporate
experience in the property sector. Currently
a non-executive director of Capital and
Regional plc, Alan has also served on the
boards of Carillion plc as a non-executive
director and Wembley plc as CEO. Following
the AGM the Board will comprise a
non-executive chairman, four executive
directors and three non-executive directors
and it is therefore the intention to recruit a
fourth non-executive director to ensure the
balance of the Board meets the Combined
Code's recommendations in this area.
Prospects
In 2006/07 Berkeley has continued to
concentrate on its areas of competitive
advantage and the business is well placed
to look to the future with confidence.
We have the right strategy for the market
in which we operate, an unrivalled land
bank and exceptional teams throughout
the business with the passion and
entrepreneurial flair to unlock value by
creating truly sustainable communities.
When combined with forward sales of
 936.3 million and the strong cash
generation over the last three years, the
Board now has sufficient visibility over the
future to seek approval to accelerate the
remaining B share payments to shareholders.
The market in London and the South East
is favourable due largely to the capital's
unique standing as a World City and
financial centre, but we should not ignore
the imbalances in the wider economy that
can lead to a sense of uncertainty.
Berkeley is in a strong position and has in
place the right strategy to maximise returns
to shareholders and to take advantage of
new opportunities as they arise. The
business looks forward to an exciting future
with confidence and I wish it and its
incredible people every success.
Roger Lewis Chairman