 Business Review
Chairman's Statement
A business primed for growth
A unique product with a sustainable competitive advantage
Betfair's Betting Exchange offers customers consistently better value  
and a differentiated betting experience than traditional betting operators. 
These features provide us with a unique customer proposition that is  
best in class and, as a result, Betfair's customers spend more money and 
are more loyal than the average customer in the online betting industry. 
While we diversify our portfolio to include betting products that 
complement our core Exchange, competitors face a difficult challenge  
in adding an Exchange to their existing product suite. With the Exchange 
at our core, Betfair's aim is to become a one-stop-shop for customers 
looking to gamble online and we are far better positioned to do this than 
any of our competitors.
A world class technology infrastructure
Betfair's recently completed re-architecture programme has provided the 
business with a technology framework that is well positioned for more 
rapid product enhancement and international expansion. Three years of 
financial investment are now primed to pay off via a proprietary platform 
that is more efficient, has greater stability and is quicker to roll out into 
new markets.
Leaders in mobile betting
The popularity of mobile betting and the evolution of mobile commerce 
provides the online gambling industry with tremendous growth 
opportunities and Betfair is a leader in this field. The first betting operator 
to launch applications for the iPhone and iPad, Betfair has made 
substantial investments in its in-house mobile development team  
in order to create and maintain its market leading mobile products.  
We spotted the opportunity in the mobile space early and as a result,  
we are well positioned to capitalise on the growth opportunities that  
the surge in mobile betting affords us. 
Track record of growth, no debt and a healthy balance sheet
Since its inception barely a decade ago, Betfair has consistently delivered 
growth and strong cash flow generation. The opportunities open to the 
business via mobile, product diversification and regulation, present a 
strong case for this trend to continue. In a strained macroeconomic 
environment, Betfair remains debt-free with  135m of cash in the bank. 
This solid financial footing provides the business with the flexibility and 
agility required to act decisively and seize opportunities as and when  
they arise.
Committed, talented and passionate employees 
Throughout our offices around the world, Betfair boasts a group of 
employees who share a commitment to delivering growth and a passion 
for the best in class product that is at the centre of our business.
With Breon Corcoran arriving as our new CEO in August, our experienced 
and driven management team will continue to lead a business that is 
focussed on carving out a future for Betfair that is as successful as its past. 
Across our Group, we possess people with the skill and motivation 
required to make Betfair the world's number one global online sports 
betting operator.
WE'RE A BUSINESS WITH 
STRONG MOMENTUM.
AND THE OPPORTUNITIES 
IN FRONT OF US ARE HUGE.
Related information: 
Corporate governance P43
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
10
Betfair Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Care for our customers, ensuring they are betting in a safe and sustainable 
fashion is of paramount importance to this business and player protection 
is a key pillar of our business strategy. In the last year, we launched a 
Responsible Gambling micro-site providing customers with a range of 
tools, resources and contact information aimed at helping them gamble 
responsibly. Alongside this we continue to invest in research with 
academic institutions such as Oxford University, aimed at enhancing our 
understanding of problem gambling and developing the way we and the 
industry as a whole attempt to tackle it.
Over time, products, strategy and personnel may change, but our 
founding commitment to operate in a transparent and responsible 
fashion will not alter.
Board and governance
The past year has been one of transition for our Board. In March, our 
founder Edward Wray stepped down as Chairman leaving behind him a 
truly remarkable legacy. On behalf of everyone at Betfair I'd like to take 
this opportunity to thank Ed. His achievements are significant and I am 
honoured to succeed him.
In January, David Yu stepped down from the Board having been at  
Betfair since 2001, serving firstly as CTO, then COO and lastly as CEO. 
Throughout his time at Betfair, David was a driving force behind the 
Company's scaling of new heights and we thank him for his decade  
of success and dedication.
Josh Hannah, whose contribution to Betfair, like David's, spans almost the 
lifetime of the company, has indicated that he intends to step down as a 
Non-executive Director during the first quarter of 2013. As Betfair has 
grown, Josh's experience and expertise have proven invaluable and we 
thank him for all he has done.
Stephen Morana has been leading the business as our Interim CEO since 
David's departure and he and his executive team have done a good job 
during this transitory period. As a result, our incoming CEO, Breon 
Corcoran, will be joining a business in August that is in sound shape: 
growing, profitable and generating cash. There is much to be done,  
but we start from a position of some strength.
Dividend and share buy-back
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 7 .0 pence 
per share. Together with the interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share,  
in the full financial year, the total dividend to be paid is 10.2 pence per 
share. This represents a payout of 20% of Core Betfair earnings per share. 
The final dividend will be payable, subject to the approval of shareholders 
at our Annual General Meeting on 11 September 2012. 
During the last financial year, we returned  50 million of cash to our 
shareholders through a share buy-back scheme. Our strong cash 
generation enabled us to undertake and complete this while continuing  
to invest significantly in the business.
Outlook
The new year has begun well, with Betfair enjoying some special 
momentum from the Euro 2012 football tournament. This event has given 
us a great opportunity to showcase our new and improved website, and 
the launch of our integrated fixed-odds product is giving customers even 
more reason to do all of their betting with Betfair and even fewer reasons 
to bet anywhere else.
Product development, international expansion, a focus on efficiency and 
earning a return on the investment we've made are at the heart of our 
agenda. This is being driven by our team of committed employees around 
the world. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their 
efforts this past year. Together, we look to the coming 12 months 
enthused and optimistic about the opportunities that lay ahead.
 Chairman
DEAR SHAREHOLDER,
Overview
I feel privileged to be writing this letter to you for the first time as 
Chairman of Betfair. Since arriving in January, I have been greatly 
impressed and enthused by what I have encountered. Betfair is a growing, 
innovative and ambitious business driven on by people who are as proud 
of its history as they are excited by its future.
Betfair endured a difficult start to life as a plc and like many in its sector, 
the share price has significantly underperformed. Some of the public 
comment we attracted in the aftermath of our float was far from polite, 
however sentiment surrounding our business is slowly improving.  
A corner has been turned and today we are a business with real 
momentum. In our first full year as a public company, we achieved Core 
Betfair revenue growth of 6% ( 349.5m) and Adjusted EBITDA growth  
of 15% ( 92. 1m) in what remains a challenging economic environment. 
Betfair remains debt free with  135m of cash in the bank.
The performance of Betfair's core product, the Betting Exchange, has been 
strong. Our Exchange is a product that customers want and our focus has 
been on ensuring that we can deliver this to them across the multiple channels 
and platforms that they want to use. The Exchange is at the heart of our 
proposition. It gives us a truly unique position, and is the basis of our success.
The growth we've seen in mobile betting over the past year has been 
significant and is testament to the strategic and executional qualities of 
those in our business who saw an opportunity early and went on to deliver 
it. Mobile betting is the fastest growing facet of our industry and we are a 
leader in the field.
Our technology re-architecture programme which began three years  
ago has been delivered on time and on budget, resulting in a website that 
offers a more robust back-end and a quicker, higher performing front-end. 
The greatly enhanced technical foundation that this project has provided 
us with has already enabled some significant product updates in recent 
months and will provide us with a stable and scalable framework in the 
years to come. We have made a significant investment in our I.T. 
infrastructure and our priority now is to earn our return.
This improved product offering has been supported since December by 
our new marketing campaign. Our Don't Settle for Less  advertisements, 
which feature prominently in this report, communicate Betfair's USP of 
better value in a manner that is clearer and more impactful than anything 
we've done before. In style and tone, the advertising reflects a renewed 
confidence in the business and has helped drive additional revenue and 
enhance brand awareness. 
Our prudent approach to regulatory compliance is a strategy that is slowly 
bearing fruit. In the last year we attained new licences in Denmark and 
Germany while making significant strides towards launching a Betting 
Exchange in Italy, a market of huge potential for us. Progressive regulatory 
steps are being made elsewhere in Europe. There are many challenges 
ahead and the journey will not be smooth, however I am confident that 
over the long term our Exchange will benefit from the market liberalisation 
which we anticipate taking place throughout the world.
We are a company in transition. From private to public, entrepreneur led 
to professionally led, an international business with a strong technology 
pedigree competing in a dynamic new industry. The pace of change will 
not slacken and the opportunities are huge.
Responsibility and integrity
In November, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU ) with 
the International Olympic Committee ahead of London 2012, followed 
closely in January with the signing of our 50th MoU with the RFU. 
Milestones such as this highlight our industry-leading approach to 
working with stakeholders from across sport to safeguard the integrity  
of the markets we're offering our customers. 
11
Betfair Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012 Overview Pages 01   09 
Business Review Pages 10   37
Governance Pages 38   57
Financial Statements Pages 58   100