 I am pleased to be able to report to our shareholders upon the further progress made by the Company during
its last financial year ended 30 June 2011 and also on our ongoing activities in the period subsequent to our
financial year end to date.
Mankayan Project, Philippines:
On 19 January 2011, the Board announced the positive results of an independent technical and economic
Block Cave Conceptual Scoping Study (the   Study''), commissioned in August 2010 from TWP Australia Pty.
Limited and Mining Plus Pty. Limited on our Mankayan Project on the Island of Luzon, approximately 260km
north of Manila (the   Mankayan Project''). As the Study neared completion, the Company was able to announce
maiden JORC compliant Probable Ore Reserves of 189 million tonnes grading at 0.46% copper and 0.49g/t of
gold, resulting in total Recoverable Metal Reserves of 811,000 tonnes of copper and 2.21 million ounces of
gold. A total mineable inventory statement was also reported in the order of 400 million tonnes of ore at an
average grade of 0.38% copper and 0.42 g/t of gold, equating to approximately 1.4 million tonnes of copper
and 3.9 million ounces of gold, the latter relating to all of the indicated, inferred and unclassified material
incorporated by the mine design within the Study.
As previously announced, the Board had for some time been conducting a comprehensive review of the
strategic options available for its Mankayan Project. Following this review process, in late February 2011, the
Company announced that whilst forming a long term commercial or joint venture partnership to finance and/or
assist with the further evaluation and development of the Mankayan Project remained a possible option, the
Board believed that an outright sale of the project was the most viable and lowest risk objective for the
Company, in order to realise shareholder value in the near term. The Company subsequently undertook an
extensive sale process with a number of interested parties being granted access to a data room, on a
confidential basis, containing information on the project. A shortlist of four selected parties then proceeded to
make one or more site visits to the project area with meetings being held with the local community and
relevant government officials.
Following a competitive tender process, the Board concluded that the proposed transaction with Goldfields
Netherlands Services BV (  Gold Fields'') was the most attractive proposal, and following a relatively lengthy
period of due diligence and commercial and legal negotiations, on 5 October 2011, I was delighted to announce
the proposed grant of an option for the disposal of our wholly owned subsidiary Asean Copper Investments
Limited (  Asean'') to Gold Fields. The summary terms of the Option Agreement provided for a non-refundable
upfront cash payment of US$7 million with a further cash sum of US$63 million payable upon the potential
future exercise of the option in order to acquire the entire issued share capital of Asean. The option may be
exercised by Gold Fields at any time until 31 January 2013. The proposed grant of the option was formally
approved by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 26 October 2011 and the non-refundable cash
payment of US$7 million was duly received by the Company that day.
Prior to the General Meeting, the Board's position regarding the distribution of any future sale proceeds to
shareholders was clarified as follows:
  In the event that the Option is exercised and the sale and transfer of the issued shares in Asean is completed
the Company anticipates that approximately 50% of the gross sale proceeds will potentially be available for
distribution to Shareholders. A return of cash to Shareholders will be subject, inter alia, to obtaining professional
advice from our financial, legal and tax advisers and prevailing exchange rates at the appropriate time, and
taking into account the view of Shareholders at that time (as appropriate). Of the 50% of funds retained, all
taxes will be paid out of this sum with the remainder being retained to progress the Company's copper/gold
exploration portfolio.''
There can of course be no certainty that Gold Fields will exercise the option, but given their current level of
financial commitment to the Philippines in relation to Lepanto Consolidated Mining Company's adjacent Far
Southeast project, your Board currently considers that there is a good probability that the option will be
exercised. Notwithstanding the latter, your Board also believes that the receipt of the non-refundable upfront
cash payment of US$7 million significantly enhances the Company's financial position in the current very
uncertain global economic climate.
3
c105877pu010Proof3:21.11.11B/LRevision:0OperatorHarS Bezant Resources Plc
Chairman's statement Eureka Project, Argentina:
In early December 2010, the Company announced that it had entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the
  APA'') under which it was assigned the exclusive rights and obligations in respect of an Exploration Agreement
with an Option to Purchase and Side Letter (together the   Option Agreement'') to acquire up to 100 per cent.
of a newly incorporated Company (Puna Metals S.A.), holding a package of 11 prospective copper and gold
exploration licences in the province of Jujuy, north-west Argentina (the   Eureka Project'').
The APA required the Company to issue an initial four million new ordinary shares to the vendor and pay cash
consideration of US$200,000, to be followed by a further tranche of four million new ordinary shares by no later
than 30 April 2011, such shares being duly allotted on 18 April 2011.
The Option Agreement covers a two year period, whereby in return for staggered cash payments of up to, in
aggregate, US$3.9 million to 30 December 2012, the Company will acquire up to 100 per cent. of the Eureka
Project.
The Company has to date paid the first two tranches of US$0.5 million each and now owns 27.5 per cent. of
Puna Metals S.A. Bezant is the sole operator and has total discretion over all exploration expenditure on the
Eureka Project, which currently has unaudited unclassified resource estimates, based on historic exploration
activities, in the order of, in aggregate, up to approximately 62 million tonnes grading at approximately 1%
copper and approximately 52,000 ounces of gold as credits.
On 15 August 2011, the Company announced that it had completed Phase I of its initial exploration programme
in relation to the evaluation of historical data and the generation of a geographic information system (  GIS'')
database. This included the identification of encouraging geophysical responses with zones of high electrical
chargeability and resistivity, which shall provide additional targets for the Company's planned ongoing
exploration programme. The Company is currently engaged in completing an environmental base line study,
along with the preparation of statutory Environmental & Social Impact Assessment Reports for submission to
the Provincial authorities, prior to being permitted to commence Phase II of its initial exploration programme in
early 2012.
Mkurumu Project, Tanzania:
The Company still maintains its 46 per cent. interest in the Mkurumu Project, alongside AngloGold Ashanti
(  AGA''), holding an identical 46 per cent., and Tanzanian locals holding the remaining 8 per cent. As
previously reported, the Board fully impaired all of the exploration costs incurred in respect of the Company's
Tanzanian projects in the Company's last financial year, in the absence of achieving an Inferred Resource
estimate within any of the defined tenement areas. The Company is currently negotiating for a possible Net
Smelter Return Royalty with AGA, in lieu of expending any further exploration costs on the Mkurumu joint
venture project.
Financial / Other:
For the twelve month period ended 30 June 2011, the Company incurred a loss after tax of  1,550,000 (2010:
loss of  1,610,000). This loss reflects expenditure incurred on our ongoing activities, completion of the
Conceptual Scoping Study for the Mankayan Project and the initial acquisition costs associated with our new
Eureka Project in Argentina.
In January 2011, we were delighted to announce the appointment of Singer Capital Markets Limited (  SCML'')
as sole Corporate Broker to the Company and in late February 2011, the Company successfully completed a
fundraising which involved a placing of 9,498,935 new ordinary shares by SCML with both existing and new
investors at a price of 50 pence per share, raising approximately  4.75 million before expenses. The net
proceeds from the Placing (and the upfront non-refundable fee in respect of the Gold Fields Option Agreement)
are to be used primarily to assist in funding the option exercise and initial work programmes in respect of the
Eureka Project.
4
c105877pu010Proof3:21.11.11B/LRevision:0OperatorHarS Bezant Resources Plc
Chairman's statement (continued) I would like to take this opportunity to once again thank all of our employees and shareholders for their
continuing support and look forward to reporting further progress in due course.
Gerard A. Nealon
Executive Chairman
18 November 2011
5
c105877pu010Proof3:21.11.11B/LRevision:0OperatorHarS Bezant Resources Plc
Chairman's statement (continued)