 Chairman's statement
The recent high level and extraordinary
volatility of international gas prices has
adverse implications for the industry's
competitiveness and, combined with
security concerns, will tend to encourage
consideration of both nuclear and coal-
fired power generation as alternatives to
gas. However, many of the current
destabilising influences on gas pricing are
likely to subside with the development of
more infrastructure for the international
trade in gas. Concerns about geopolitical
stability in some key producing areas are
less easy to address and, at national policy
level, can probably only be met by
geographic diversity in supply sources.
In many respects, though, there are good
reasons to believe that we are entering
the   Age of Gas'. Natural gas is the
cleanest fossil fuel; it is convenient to 
use; it is relatively abundant and the
technologies for delivering it by pipeline
and ship are mature. Renewables will
enter the energy mix, of course, but it will
be many years yet before they will account
for a large part of the world's energy
needs. In the meantime, gas, as the most
eco-friendly fossil fuel, has an important
role to play.
In the wake of recent public debate, I
should make specific reference to the UK
gas market. BG Group supplies about 6%
of the gas consumed in the UK. Until
2004, the UK was self-sufficient in gas
and, over the last decade, UK gas prices
were among the lowest in the EU in all
segments. However, for the foreseeable
future the UK will need to import gas and
must therefore compete on price for
internationally-traded gas, whether via
pipeline from Norway and Russia or as
LNG from elsewhere.
BG Group regrets the British Government's
decision to raise taxes on North Sea
production yet again. This is a major direct
cost to our shareholders, and is likely 
to mean that marginally economic
sources of gas in the North Sea will stay 
in the ground rather than be produced.
However, we intend to continue with a
very active North Sea exploration and
development programme, in both the 
UK and Norway. With its international
portfolio of LNG supplies, and its planned
LNG re-gasification plant in Milford
Haven, BG Group hopes to help resolve 
UK gas supply concerns.
BG Group has a rich heritage of
experience of working right along the gas
chain from source through to consumer,
providing us with a strong basis on which
to benefit from the evolution of the gas
industry from a regionally to a globally-
traded commodity business.
PROGRESS IN 2005
2005 was another year of excellent
performance in developing new projects.
The completion of Train 1 of Egyptian LNG
ahead of schedule, and less than six years
after the first discovery of gas, was the
highlight. This was complemented by
Train 2 also being completed last year,
even further ahead of schedule, and by
the early start-up of the Simian, Sienna
and Sapphire fields to supply gas to these
liquefaction facilities.
When I wrote last year's statement, I 
said that our plans and developments to
achieve strong growth until the end of 
the decade were in place, and that we
would be focusing increasingly on 
growth opportunities for the next decade.
I am pleased to report now that we have
made substantial progress in that
direction and, whilst there is much yet
to do, a wide range of new opportunities
are beginning to crystallise. The Chief
Executive's statement covers this in 
more detail. 
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
2
In a challenging business
environment, BG Group has
again delivered another
impressive set of results. 
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
I am pleased to report that, in 2005, BG
Group delivered another impressive set of
results. Strong operational performance
and favourable market conditions
combined to enable our continued growth.
In 2005, total operating profit* increased
by 57%, while earnings, excluding disposals
and re-measurements*, were up by 64% to
 1 357 million. The full year dividend will be
increased by 57% to 6.00 pence. Our aim
now is to continue to increase the dividend
in line with underlying earnings growth. 
BUSINESS CONTEXT AND STRATEGIC
FRAMEWORK
It has almost become a truism to say 
that this is an exciting time to be in the
gas industry.
It has been clear for some years now 
that the growth of demand for natural
gas would be likely to exceed that for
competing fuels. It has been clear, 
too, that the rapid development of
international trade in gas, whether
through pipelines or as Liquefied Natural
Gas (LNG), would mean a much faster rate
of change in the gas industry than in the
more mature markets for other fossil
fuels. Now, overlaid on all this, we have
seen sharp price increases, both for gas
and oil, and growing concern about the
long-term security of energy supplies. 
This all makes for a challenging business
environment, but one that is also full of
opportunity for a company such as ours,
with a focus predominantly on gas.
Demand for gas is rising in both the US
and Western Europe at a time when
indigenous supplies are in decline. The
gap must be filled by internationally
traded gas and a significant part of this
will be LNG. Over recent years, BG Group
has developed a strong Atlantic Basin
position in LNG, so we are well placed to
participate in this growing market.  2 380m
2004  1 513m
Total operating profit*
6.00p
2004 3.81p
Dividend per share
 1 357m
2004  829m
Earnings*
In November, we announced our intention
to return up to  1 billion to shareholders
via a share repurchase programme, and I
have already noted the step change in our
dividend policy. These are signals of our
commitment to tight capital discipline, 
to maintaining an efficient balance sheet
and to generating cash for the long-term
benefit of our shareholders. High
hydrocarbon prices, the US$1.8 billion
aggregate pre-tax receipts from our North
Caspian Sea asset sale and new long-term
projects coming onstream have enabled
us to do this. It is a signal of our
confidence in the outlook for BG Group
that we can both return cash to
shareholders and sustain our growth
trajectory. Consistent with these growth
ambitions, we also announced an extra
 900 million of capital investment in 
new development projects. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND
GOVERNANCE
The Board of BG Group is committed to
the very highest standards of governance.
The Company has developed a framework
that encompasses internal controls,
organisation and structure, and
independent assurance. We believe that
this framework delivers best practice in
terms of governance.
Increasingly, the focus on gas production
is moving from developed countries to
those at different stages of economic,
environmental and social development.
There are new opportunities for us, but
these new opportunities bring with them
very clear responsibilities. It is often
alleged, for example, that resource wealth
in developing countries leads to
corruption. That need not be the case and
we will have no part in it. In fact, we go
further and apply the same transparent
and ethical standards in our operations
regardless of where we work in the world. 
Recognising the increasing range of
cultural and social environments in which
it operates, BG Group is putting more
resource into the development and
implementation of corporate
responsibility policy. A Corporate
Responsibility Committee of the Board
has also been established under the
chairmanship of Sir John Coles which has
a wide remit including Health, Safety,
Security, Environment and Community
Relations. The establishment of this
Committee reflects the increasing weight
the Board places on getting corporate
responsibility right.
BG Group's approach to the environment
is to go beyond compliance with local
regulations and to meet internationally
accepted good practice in all its
operations. The Group recognises also that
positive relationships with the
communities among which we work can
be key both to reputation and to future
commercial success. We are increasingly
seeking to focus our social programme
and investments on projects that will
foster sustainable development within
those communities.
My statement would not be complete
without a reference to the Chairman's
Awards. The 2005 Awards were the
seventh annual awards and their aim is 
to encourage innovation in the drive for
continuous improvement in our health,
safety and environmental performance.
They also serve the important purpose of
ensuring that good ideas, proven in
practice, can become widely known and
applied throughout the Group. It is both
very sad and disappointing that, whilst
these efforts have been made, we have to
report six contractor fatalities during
2005. The Chief Executive's statement
discusses these. For my part, I can
reassure shareholders that the Chief
Executive and his team have responded
very powerfully to the three incidents
involved and demanded a step change in
safety performance across the Group.
Finally, let me welcome J rgen Dormann,
who joined the Board in June. I referred in
last year's report to the other Board
changes in 2005 with the appointment of
Baroness Hogg in January and the
retirement of three long-serving non-
executives at the AGM. I would also like to
conclude by thanking the employees of
BG Group for the commitment and effort
they demonstrated and the imagination
they displayed in the course of 2005. At a
time when the Group is growing fast, the
challenges to employees are considerable.
They have shown what an excellent team
they are in delivering the successes
reported in this Annual Report and
Accounts.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
3
*
See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152.