 6 Directors' Report - Business Review
www.bg-group.com
that of oil. These price changes were
accompanied by an increase in the value 
of the US Dollar (which dominates the
revenues and costs of BG Group's business)
relative to the pound Sterling, the currency 
in which BG Group reports its earnings. 
Amidst such upheaval and uncertainty, it is
sometimes difficult for investors to keep a
clear line of sight on the underlying value and
future growth potential of the companies
they own. In BG Group's view, it has become
more important than ever to examine market
fundamentals, the robustness of corporate
strategy and the profitability of underlying
assets in today's price environment. No
company should ever be complacent at a
time of such extraordinary uncertainties;
however, we believe that BG Group is better
positioned than most.
Global energy markets
Whatever the future may hold, two factors
seem certain. First, there is ample evidence
that global energy needs will continue to
grow - perhaps not in the short-term, but
certainly over time, particularly in the
developing world. Second, as a consequence
of growing public concern about climate
change, an increasing proportion of those
energy needs will have to be met from
sources that produce significantly lower
carbon emissions than coal.
Natural gas is the cleanest of the hydrocarbon
fuels. Gas resources remain relatively
abundant and - thanks to constant advances
in technology - can often be found within
economically attractive distances from key
markets. As such, the environmental and
industrial benefits of strategies to displace
coal in favour of gas are well understood. 
In many nations, increased gas utilisation 
forms an important part of broader
commitments to improve air quality and
addresses the challenges of climate change.
There is therefore every prospect that natural
gas - a core area of focus in BG Group's
business - will continue to grow in
importance as a global fuel of choice.
Strategy for growth
BG Group's strategy is straightforward, proven
and effective: to grow value for shareholders
by connecting competitively priced resources
to selected high-value markets. That
underlying strategy has served shareholders
well for more than a decade now.
That is not to say that the Group's approach
to the development of its portfolio is static.
There have been a number of important
Despite a sharp downturn in the global
economy in the latter months of 2008, I am
pleased to report that BG Group achieved
another excellent performance over the 
year as a whole. The Group reported a 
65% increase in total operating profit* to 
 5 355 million and a 74% increase in earnings
per share* to 91.6 pence. The full year
dividend payment has been increased by 
20% to 11.23 pence per share. BG Group's
exploration success continued, materially
enhancing the opportunities for continued
growth in future years. Offshore Brazil was
once again a particular highlight, with 
major successes in the Santos Basin. 
In late 2008, the Group acquired control 
of Queensland Gas Company Limited (QGC) 
in Australia, adding to the portfolio a material
new business with significant upstream
resources, well-positioned to supply Asia
Pacific markets. 
A challenging environment
We are all now experiencing a level of
volatility in global markets that has no
precedent in modern times. The banking
crisis which gathered pace in the late
summer of 2008 has quickly tipped the wider
global economy into serious recession. Many
businesses have retrenched in response to
severely impaired access to credit and capital;
and many consumers have begun to reduce
discretionary spending in response to
concerns that the global recession may be
deep-rooted and enduring.
The inability of certain businesses, large and
small, to meet their financing commitments,
and the dramatic collapse in the value of
securities in even the greatest of financial
institutions, have radically reshaped global
equity markets. Energy shares may have 
fared better than some other sectors, but
have certainly not been immune to market
turbulence. As economic activity slows in the
developed world and in emerging nations,
particularly China and India, near-term
commodity prices have fallen sharply.
However, medium-term oil prices have fallen
less. Gas prices, which are more important 
to BG Group's earnings, were also materially
less affected. The UK actually saw gas prices
increase; and in other markets, such as the
USA, gas price decline was less severe than
Chairman's statement
I am pleased to report another
excellent year for BG Group.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 75.
BG078_p06-10_vAW2.qxp:Layout 1  16/3/09  22:18  Page 6 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
developments in the portfolio over the last
year. The net effect is a stronger resource
base and enhanced options for investment 
to drive the Group's long-term growth. In
parallel, we have reassessed risks and
opportunities across all of BG Group's
activities to confirm that the portfolio
remains robust and value-enhancing against
a very broad range of market conditions. 
The Group continues to benefit from the
longevity of its core assets and a cost
structure amongst the most competitive 
in its industry.
Where it makes sense for the Group to 
move quickly to secure high-quality assets
with excellent prospects, it will do so. For
example, the acquisition of QGC followed 
the Group's decision to allow its previous 
bid for Origin Energy to lapse, and was
achieved within weeks by means of an 
on-market recommended takeover bid.
Another example is the close collaboration
with the Group's Brazilian partner, Petrobras,
to accelerate the development of the Santos
Basin pre-salt discoveries. Equally, the Group
will not hesitate to reschedule plans or alter
the mix of assets within a business segment 
if doing so offers the prospect of greater
value creation in future. The decisive action 
to phase over a longer period the further
development of the Karachaganak field is a
demonstration of the Group's commitment
to discipline in its use of capital.
Given that BG Group has ambitious plans 
for further growth, it is perhaps inevitable
that shareholders should ask whether these
investments can be financed in the current
environment. Shareholders should feel
reassured that BG Group has a highly 
cash-generative business, a low level of
gearing and committed lines of credit. 
We believe that the Group's investment
programme can be sustained without
sacrifice to dividends, and will not lead 
to undue reliance on debt. 
Sustainability
BG Group recognises that stakeholders do
not simply scrutinise business performance
in terms of numbers and volumes. The Group
is also expected to maintain the highest
standards of corporate responsibility. We
believe that how the Group behaves matters
as much as the achievement of its goals.
BG Group is committed to ensuring all aspects
of its operations worldwide are conducted in
line with its published Business Principles, set
out in The way we work on page 35. This is not
merely a consequence of the Group's desire 
to act with integrity in its dealings with
stakeholders. The commitment is shaped 
by a clear understanding that acting
responsibly is an essential component 
of shareholder value over the long-term.
Companies which fall short of their
obligations towards their employees, host
communities and the environment, risk
undermining the sustainability of their 
core business. 
BG Group reports annually on its progress 
in this area. This year's publication, the 
BG Group Sustainability Report, is published
today at the same time as the Annual 
Report and Accounts. I would encourage
shareholders to read the two Reports in
parallel. Taken together, they are intended 
to give as full a picture as possible of 
BG Group's performance in pursuit of 
its ambitions.
Unfortunately, I must report a serious breach
of BG Group's Business Principles during 
the period under review. In December 2008, 
a disciplinary process found that the Group's
Executive Vice President and Managing
Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia had
committed serious errors of judgment in
relation to his personal dealings in third-party
shares. The Group concluded that his position
in the company was no longer tenable and 
he therefore left BG Group by mutual 
consent, with immediate effect, in late
December 2008. Information was passed to
the relevant regulatory authorities, whose
investigation continues.
Shareholder communications
I am pleased to report that an increasing
number of shareholders are choosing to
access details of BG Group's performance
online via the Group's website 
(www.bg-group.com/investors) rather 
than by receipt of a printed copy of the
Annual Report and Accounts. I would like 
to thank shareholders who have elected 
to receive online communications alone. 
The environmental and cost benefits are
obvious and, given the size of the Group's
shareholder register, not insignificant.
This year the Group will no longer be
producing Summary Financial Statements,
and shareholders who have specifically
requested this will be sent a copy of the
Annual Report and Accounts instead. As 
last year, communication of the Annual Report
and Accounts via the Group's website will
remain the default option for shareholders
who have not specifically requested a hard
copy. However, printed copies are available 
free of charge upon request.
I would also like to alert shareholders to 
a change of venue for the Group's Annual
General Meeting (AGM). This year's AGM 
will be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference
Centre in Reading, instead of the ICC in
Birmingham. Full details are set out in the
Notice of AGM on page 127.
The Board
There were a number of changes to the Board
in 2008. Sir John Coles stepped down from
the Board in September 2008 and Paul Collins
stepped down at the end of the year. They
depart with our thanks and appreciation of
their important contribution during the last
decade. We also welcomed Sir David Manning
to the Board in July 2008, followed by Martin
Houston, who was appointed to the Board 
as an Executive Director in February 2009. 
In conclusion, I would like to offer my thanks
to the Group's management and employees.
2008 was a year of challenges overcome and
opportunities delivered. The achievements
outlined in this Report provide clear evidence
of the energy, dedication and commitment 
of the people of BG Group.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
DIRECTORS' REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
DIRECTORS' REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION 7
BG078_p06-10_vAW2.qxp:Layout 1  16/3/09  22:18  Page 7