 Directors' Report: Business Review
www.bg-group.com
Global economic conditions were notably
challenging in 2009, with adverse consequences
for energy demand in some of BG Group's
key markets. Despite this, BG Group's
performance over the year was solid. Total
operating profit* of  4 211 million was 21%
lower year-on-year against a background of
significant reductions in international
benchmark oil and gas prices. Earnings per
share were 27% lower at 67.3 pence. The
Group continues to benefit from strong cash
flows. Gearing is higher than in previous years
but at 17% remains within the range that the
Group considers to be appropriate. The
full-year dividend payment has been
increased by 10% to 12.35 pence per share.
Full details of the Group's 2009 financial
performance can be found on page 69.
BG Group enjoyed continued exploration
success, particularly offshore Brazil,
strengthening further the Group's platform
for growth through the new decade. During
the year, the Group acquired Pure Energy
Resources Limited in Australia and entered
into an alliance with EXCO Resources, Inc.
(EXCO ), a US shale gas producer with
upstream and transmission assets at the
heart of the world's largest gas market.
Market context
Although timely intervention by governments
prevented the 2008 banking crisis from
tipping the global economy into collapse, the
new decade begins with many economies
weighed down by a range of recessionary
factors. These include a reduction in industrial
activity, growing unemployment and a fall
in consumer confidence, leading to lower
demand for goods and services in the major
consumer markets. Additionally, a number of
countries, including the UK, enter the decade
with very high levels of national debt and
huge fiscal deficits.
Oil prices partially recovered through the
year from the lows of late 2008, and appear
to have stabilised at levels which, while
significantly lower than the summer 2008
Chairman's statement
6
The pace of gas usage growth in China - one
of the world's largest economies - is just one
indication that the new decade is likely to see
further growth in demand for the cleanest
of the fossil fuels. I believe that BG Group,
as a global gas company, is strongly placed to
benefit as natural gas continues to underpin
the journey to a lower-carbon future.
A strengthened and rebalanced portfolio
A challenge shared by all oil and gas
companies is that a substantial proportion
of global hydrocarbon resources is located
within developing economies. Over the last
three years, the Group has rebalanced its
portfolio to ensure that future growth has
a firm foundation in countries with a long
track record of stability. That does not imply,
though, that BG Group will avoid all
countries where there is an element of risk.
Doing so would not be tenable in this
industry, nor would it be in our shareholders'
wider interests.
I am pleased to report that the Group
continues to make important improvements
in its overall geopolitical risk profile in order
to protect, as well as create, value for our
shareholders. The rapid development of the
Group's QGC business in Australia and the
Santos Basin successes in Brazil are two key
outcomes from this deliberate strategy to
establish new opportunities for material value
creation in countries proven to be favourable
destinations for long-term investment.
BG Group's alliance with EXCO in the USA is
intended to achieve two interlocking aims.
First, it strengthens the Group's US supply
portfolio and expertise near the hub of the
US eastern seaboard gas market. Second, it
expands the Group's skills and development
opportunities in unconventional gas resources at
a time when, as a consequence of technological
developments, these are emerging rapidly as
substantial sources of natural gas production.
An overview of developments in BG Group's
portfolio is set out in the Operating Review on
pages 16 to 23.
peak, seem to be broadly sustainable, at least
under current market conditions. However,
gas prices remain subdued - a factor reflected
in the Group's 2009 earnings.
The present weak level of global energy
demand has led to talk of a natural gas  glut'
as new sources of supply continue to come
onstream and producers compete to secure
customers in a buyer's market. There is in
some markets a mismatch between capacity
and demand at the moment. However,
this may not last long if, as anticipated,
momentum is restored to global economic
growth in the early years of this decade.
There are two other relevant factors.
First, despite the weak conclusions of the
Copenhagen summit, political leaders still
face an urgent need to define credible and
deliverable policies which will meet current
and future national energy requirements,
while simultaneously achieving a significant
reduction in carbon emissions. Second, US
and European concerns about energy
security are driving a desire to secure new
and sustainable sources of energy which are
free from the threat of politically-motivated
supply constraints.
Natural gas goes some way to addressing
both of those policy issues. It is acknowledged
to be a  bridge fuel' with a role to play in
displacing higher-carbon fossil fuels, such
as coal, which remain the energy sources
of choice across much of the world. Gas
resources are abundant and for many years
have been brought to market using
techniques that are proven and cost-effective,
unlike a number of alternative energy
technologies. Finally, from an energy
security perspective, it is important not to
underestimate the significance of liquefied
natural gas (LNG) - an increasingly fungible
global commodity with diverse and resilient
global sources of supply - as well as the rapid
development of unconventional gas resources
within the borders of developed world
nations, particularly the USA and Australia.
A solid performance despite
notably challenging global
economic conditions.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and T otal Results, see note 2, page 77. BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors' Report
Business Review
7
Directors' Report
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Shareholder
Information
Governance and risk
One of the most effective means of mitigating
risk is to develop and maintain relationships
with relevant stakeholders, including local
communities, partners and governments,
that are mutually supportive and enduring.
This approach lies at the centre of the Group's
Business Principles, which set out the core
values and behaviours to which the Group
aspires and against which it expects to be
measured by others.
BG Group's commitment to operating
according to the highest standards of ethical
conduct and corporate governance is
summarised in The way we work on page 34.
A more detailed overview is also available
in the Group's 2009 Sustainability Report,
published in tandem with the Annual Report
and Accounts and available online at
www.bg-group.com/sustainability
Another consequence of the 2008 banking
crisis has been a public focus on the extent
to which boards fully understand the risks
faced by their businesses and are willing and
equipped to hold the executive to account
over the effective mitigation of those risks.
During 2009, both the Walker Review and
the Financial Reporting Council called for a
step change in the level of engagement and
challenge between shareholders and boards,
and between boards and the executive. While
the detail of the proposed changes has yet to
be finalised - and some proposals may turn
out to be neither feasible nor desirable - in
my view, this Company is already broadly
aligned with the spirit of much of what has
been recommended.
This Board takes seriously its duty to test the
robustness of the Group's strategy to ensure
that business plans properly take into account
the full range of political, financial and
operating risks. More details of the Group's
approach to governance can be found on
page 42.
This year, BG Group will embark upon a very
large capital expenditure programme. The
Santos Basin pre-salt developments and the
Queensland Curtis LNG project, in particular,
will require very large investment over the
next three to four years. These projects
will also place significant demands on
organisational capacity, but I am confident
that our outstanding portfolio of development
opportunities will generate significant
shareholder value in the years ahead.
Shareholder communications
In 2009, BG Group announced that it will
move to reporting its financial results in
US Dollars with effect from the first quarter
results for the 2010 financial year. As
substantially more than half of the Group's
revenues are denominated in US Dollars,
reporting in that currency will provide
shareholders with greater visibility of the
Group's performance. It will also simplify
comparisons with peers, many of whom
already report in US Dollars. Although the
dividend will be set and declared in US Dollars,
it will be paid in Pounds Sterling. There
will also be no change in the currency of
BG Group's share capital. An explanation
of the transition to reporting in US Dollars
is given on page 114.
As in previous years, I would encourage
shareholders to make use of the Group's
reporting centre to be found online at
www.bg-group.com/reports in lieu of
opting to receive a printed copy of the
Annual Report and Accounts. We will of
course continue to send printed copies to
shareholders who have specifically requested
this. Those of you who have not stated a
preference will receive communications
from the Group in an online format.
Finally, I would like to welcome Mark Seligman
to the Board, who joined us as a Non-Executive
Director in December 2009. I would also like
to express the Board's thanks to the people of
BG Group. Their creativity, commitment and
expertise has been integral to the success of
the Group over the last decade and provides
us with the best possible foundation for the
next generation of growth in the decade ahead.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman