 At the time of the merger, BHP Billiton articulated its vision to
earn superior returns for shareholders as the world's premier
supplier of natural resources and related products and services.
Put simply, the Board and management recognised the changes
occurring in our industry and the global economy and saw an
opportunity to create an entity that would provide long-term
growth from a stable base and a global footprint. 
Over the past year, we have made significant progress in creating
value and building the fundamental platform that allows us to
produce a stable, healthy cash flow throughout the economic
cycle. This year's progress, whereby BHP Billiton generated solid
earnings and recorded significant operating achievements, sits
against a background of a struggling world economy, some low
commodity prices, a war in the Middle East and the impact of
stronger operating currencies.
Results and growth
Despite the challenging environment, our earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation were US$5. 1 billion;
our available cash flow (after interest and tax) reached 
US$3.6 billion and we increased the dividend to 1 4.5 US cents 
a share, an increase of 1 1 .5 per cent over last year .
The strength of our earnings this year and, indeed, since the
merger, demonstrate our fundamental investment proposition 
of stability and growth. This proposition is based on world-class
assets, a strong management team and significant growth
opportunities in an entity with scale and diversification. 
From our high-quality operating base, we continued to deliver
the promised efficiency gains and the Company remains in a
strong position to continue to develop its suite of assets.
Growth has been delivered in a number of forms. Five new
projects have been delivered since July 2002, on or ahead of
budget and schedule. A further 1 4 projects are currently in
development, representing more than US$4.6 billion of future
investment. 
Future growth will be generated from our exploration activities,
in which we invested a further US$348 million during the year .
Growth in earnings has been created through efficiency gains,
which improve our margins throughout the cycle and therefore
our competitiveness. The marketing of our products has been
totally restructured, again with the goal of improving our
margins and competitiveness, to become more valuable to 
our customers.
Determining value
Ultimately, it is the ability to manage our assets well and execute
profitable growth opportunities that creates value in the
Company and will provide superior, sustainable returns for
shareholders. So let us look at the value that has been delivered
to shareholders in recent years. 
T oday, BHP Billiton has a market capitalisation of approximately
US$42 billion, compared to a market capitalisation of 
US$28 billion at the time of the merger and US$35 billion at 
year end.
The value of our Company is determined by the future cash flows
generated from existing operations and internal and external
growth initiatives. While for any individual business these cash
flows may be quite volatile as a result of changes in prices,
exchange rates, markets and the level of demand for our
commodities, our diverse portfolio of assets reduces this
volatility to provide greater stability of overall cash flow.
The share market value of the Company may differ from the
theoretical value of the Company due to a variety of factors. 
One of the reasons for this is the increasingly complex
accounting conventions and standards, including the effect on
the balance sheet of currency translations.
While the weakening of the US dollar has a real cash impact on
the Company, a great deal of the impact is non-cash and due to 
a requirement to revalue non-US dollar denominated monetary
items on the balance sheet and take any change in value through
our income statement. This can increase the volatility of our
earnings and it is why we encourage investors to focus on 
cash flow in addition to earnings.
2 > BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003
> Don Argus, Chairman
Chairman' s Review
 BHP Billiton's unique set of assets,
value-focused strategies, strong
balance sheet and dedicated
workforce leave it well placed to
prosper over the coming year .'  In the last few years, share markets and share prices have
become increasingly volatile. So while the inherent value of
businesses, and earnings generated, may have remained
relatively stable, the value attributed by markets to a business,
such as BHP Billiton, has fluctuated widely.
Financial markets will continue to be volatile for the foreseeable
future. While BHP Billiton is not immune from these influences, 
if we continue to deliver growth with returns above the cost of
capital and increase our cash flow, we will continue to attract 
a wide investor following and achieve our objective of being a
core holding for global institutional investors, as well as our
individual investors.
Over the last few years we have made good progress with our
key value drivers. 
Since the merger in June 2001, our focus on creating value has
resulted in BHP Billiton Limited outperforming the ASX 200 by 
2.3 per cent and the S&P 500 by 9.4 per cent and BHP Billiton Plc
outperforming the FTSE 1 00 by 24.4 per cent and the S&P 500 by
16.25 per cent. A shareholder who invested US$1 000 in BHP
Limited in November 1 998 would now have a holding worth
US$2207. Had US$1 000 been invested in Billiton Plc at the same
time, that amount would now be worth US$2990.
While we will continue to invest in the growth of the business,
we also aim to increase dividends through our progressive
dividend policy.
We are well on the way to achieving our vision. While there will
always be more work to do, we have and are delivering against
the promises made at the time of the merger . We continue to
aspire to be not just the resources investment of choice but also
an investment of choice regardless of industry sector . We aspire
to be one of the world's best companies.
The Board and management
During the year Chip Goodyear succeeded Brian Gilbertson as
CEO of the Group. Chip has settled into the position extremely
well and, with an outstanding executive team and first class
organisation, is continuing the strategic direction outlined to 
the market in April 2002.
Mr Cornelius Herkstr ter will retire from the Board at the
conclusion of the annual general meeting in November 2003. 
Mr Herkstr ter has made a significant contribution to the Group
and I am sure that all shareholders join me in thanking him for
his contribution.
In February, Dr John Buchanan joined the Board as a non-
executive Director . Dr Buchanan was formerly an executive
Director and the Group Chief Financial Officer of BP Plc. 
Mr Miklos Salamon, Senior Minerals Executive and President of
the Aluminium Customer Sector Group also joined the Board as
an executive Director .
The Board has been reduced from 1 7 Directors to nine non-
executive and two executive Directors. The Board will continue
with its regular review and appraisal process aimed at assessing
the appropriate mix of skills, attributes and the performance of
individual Directors.
An independent review of the Board was also undertaken during
the year . The review focused on areas such as the role of the
Board, performance evaluation, procedures and practices, and
behaviours and cohesion. Action programs that evolve from this
review will be developed to assist the Board to be more effective,
both collectively and individually, going forward. 
Corporate governance
The Board recognises that the globalisation of investment 
flows continues at pace with the availability of capital from
international markets increasingly moving to those economies
and companies that demonstrate sound corporate governance
practices and an overall commitment to sustainability.
The Dual Listed Companies structure under which BHP Billiton
operates adds complexity to our governance regime but it also
provides us with the opportunity to consider and adopt those
practices that we consider to be the better of the prevailing
standards, in any of their jurisdictions.
The Board also recognises that we cannot afford to strive for
anything less than continued strong performance. There is no
room for complacency given the volatile nature of the market
and the possibility of a crisis at any time.
I commend my Board colleagues and Chip Goodyear's
management team for their continued commitment to superior
performance and transparency, which has enabled the Company
to turn in a robust performance for the 2003 financial year .
Outlook statement 
The global economy has struggled to generate significant growth
momentum following a series of damaging shocks over the past
few years. Many developed economies are moving through
unchartered waters as they deal with excess capacity, subdued
demand and a competitive pricing environment. However, on
balance, it appears to have turned the corner and, although the
outlook remains fragile, a number of positive developments are
supporting an improved outlook for 2004.
First, monetary and fiscal policies are being aligned throughout
the major economies, with US and European central banks
reducing interest rates while Japan is working hard to provide the
necessary reform framework for improving the economic climate.
Second, equity markets have improved over the course of the
year . Third, corporate bond spreads have fallen in tandem with
government bond yields as markets become increasingly
comfortable with risk levels. Finally, the situation in many
emerging economies has stabilised and China continues to
provide a bulwark for commodity markets.
Although the global economy faces significant headwinds, 
BHP Billiton's unique set of assets, value-focused strategies,
strong balance sheet and dedicated workforce leave it well
placed to prosper over the coming year .
Don Argus, 
Chairman
3 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003        >