 2
BIOCOMPATIBLES
Chairman' s Statement
Biocompatibles made good progress in 2007.
  Our sales increased;
  Our gross margin was higher;
  Our net loss was lower than our expectation;
  We signed a new agreement with Abbott that has started to bring
in Drug-Eluting Stent revenues; 
  The Drug-Eluting Bead programme progressed through some
important milestones - notably the completion of recruitment 
in the PRECISION V randomised Phase II clinical trial; and,
  At CellMed, in Germany, the collaboration with Merz in the
Cosmetic Dermatology market made excellent progress - with
completion of recruitment in the CE Mark trial early in 2008.
Approval of the start of the clinical trial for the treatment of
Stroke with the CellBeads
 
product was also a significant
accomplishment. 
The Business 
Biocompatibles is a leading medical technology company in the 
field of drug device combination products, operating through three
businesses. The International Division conducts the marketing of
Biocompatibles' approved Bead products, which are sold to hospitals
by our distribution partners, including AngioDynamics Inc and
Terumo Corporation. The Drug Delivery and CellMed businesses 
are engaged in new product development and licensing.
The Company' s main programmes are Drug-Eluting Stents, licensed
to Medtronic; Cosmetic dermatology Beads licensed to Merz
Pharmaceuticals; Drug-Eluting Bead products for the treatment 
of cancer, by Endo-Vascular and Non-Vascular delivery, which 
is unlicensed; and Drug-Eluting Beads for the treatment of stroke,
which is also unlicensed.
Patient
Indication Trial Name Location Objective Status Numbers
HCC PRECISION I Barcelona Safety, Dose Journal of Hepatology 46 (3): 20
474-481; March 1007
PRECISION II Hong Kong Safety, Dose Clin. Gastroenterology & 35
Hepatology 2007; 5: 1100-1108
PRECISION IV Multi-Centre US Randomised Control Trial: FDA approved. Not started 400
Survival recruiting
PRECISION V Multi-Centre Randomised Control Trial: Efficacy, Recruitment complete 212
Europe Quality of Life, Health Economics
PRECISION Greece Safety, Efficacy Euro Oncologic Dis. 07 Issue 1 60
Athens CVIR. Online 2008: 31 (2)
PRECISION US Safety, Efficacy Recruitment complete 20
Baltimore
PRECISION Italy Safety, Efficacy Accepted for publication in 20
Pisa Journal of Hepatology
PRECISION Austria Safety, Efficacy Submitted for publication 28
Vienna
PRECISION Multi-centre Randomised Control Trial: 33 patients treated 214
Italy Italy Survival
Neuroendocrine PRECISION France Safety, Efficacy Accepted for publication in JVIR 20
metastases Paris
Lung PRECISION VI Frankfurt Safety, Efficacy Recruitment suspended for further 20
work on technique optimisation
Drug-Eluting Bead Technology: Clinical Trials - PRECISION
77220 Pre 1:77220 pre 1  23/4/08  19:09  Page 2 Our Business Model  is to own the most valuable products in our
portfolio and pipeline; and to engage with partners where their scale
and/or focus offers more effective execution.
We aspire to be the leader in the fields in which we operate and if we
slip significantly behind the competition or our own plans, then we
will seek to crystallise value for shareholders. We consider ourselves
to be the leader in the field of Drug-Eluting Beads for the treatment
of cancer; and in the field of stem cell derived therapies for the brain.
Our task is to develop these leading technology positions into
worthwhile market positions. 
Biocompatibles has a portfolio of granted patents around three
biomedical polymer systems - the NFil Technology
 
licensed from
the Biocure affiliate of Novartis' Ciba Vision subsidiary, which is
used in the Drug-Eluting Beads programme; the CellMed alginate
technology, CellBeads
 
, which is required for the encapsulation of 
the biological agents; and the PC Technology
 
that was the Group' s
original platform. Beyond these core polymer systems, we have
additional patents covering a variety of more product-specific Drug
Delivery inventions for the delivery of both chemical and biological
agents; and for both medical device and pharmaceutical products. 
The Vision
Our Vision for Biocompatibles as a whole remains the development
of a high margin, high growth, financially strong, business based on 
a range of valuable drug device combination products.
The vision of the Biocompatibles businesses based in Farnham 
is also unchanged - the creation and leadership of a market for 
Drug-Eluting Beads and the recognition of our products as a 
Gold Standard treatment for Hepatocellular Carcinoma and 
Metastic colo-rectal .
Chairman' s Statement
Continued
ANNUAL REPORT 2007
3
Drug-Eluting Bead Technology: Clinical Trials - PARAGON
Patient
Indication Trial Name Location Objective Status Numbers
mCRC PARAGON I US Safety, Efficacy FDA Approved 70
P ARAGON Italy Safety, Efficacy Anticancer Research 26: 25
Ferrara 3793-3796 (2006)
P ARAGON Germany Safety, Efficacy 10 patients recruited 40
Frankfurt
Various Cancer Open Surgical Multi-Centre Safety, Efficacy 76 patients recruited 250
Registry International
Drug Eluting Bead Technology: Clinical Trials - Other Products
Patient
Indication Trial Name Location Objective Status Numbers
Uterine Fibroids Ibuprofen Paris Safety Recruitment ongoing 20
Bead
Stroke CellBead Hannover Safety Trial Approved 20
Neuro
77220 Pre 1:77220 pre 1  23/4/08  19:09  Page 3 Chairman' s Statement
Continued
4
BIOCOMPATIBLES
cancer. CellMed' s vision is still to be first to market with an
engineered stem cell product - the Drug-Eluting CellBead for 
the treatment of Stroke.
Building V alue
Biocompatibles' financial profile is being transformed by the 
growth in sales and gross margin; but the Group is not yet profitable
and the most commonly accepted measure of business success is 
therefore not available to investors or other stakeholders. This
imposes an obligation on the Board and management to be very
specific about how the value of the Group is to be increased and 
risk is to be managed.
As I commented in my report last year, we address this issue by
making three specific commitments each of which can be monitored
by our shareholders. First, we commit to a clear medium-term vision,
described above, along with annual goals that mark the route. Second,
management undertakes the discipline of providing financial guidance
to investors and the rest of the financial community on the level of
sales and cash consumption. Third, the Board reviews whether there
are specific opportunities for accelerating the delivery of value to
shareholders. This approach was taken in 2002 with the sale of the
cardiovascular stent and contact lens businesses, and the subsequent
return to shareholders of  123m of capital.  
Acquisition and Business
Development Activity
The Board monitors a short list of acquisition and in-licensing
opportunities, which are typically companies that would strengthen
the competitiveness of our Bead product lines and bring forward the
date at which we achieve sustainable profitability. During 2007 we
reviewed several of such opportunities.
Corporate Governance
The Directors place a high priority on maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance and rigorous management systems, and 
the Company is in compliance with the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance. Biocompatibles' quality management system
incorporates a number of relevant provisions from the Code (and the
Turnbull Guidance), including those relating to risk management and
internal control. The internal control risk review ensures that, as the
Group and its technology evolves, its approach to risk keeps pace.
The Company' s continued accreditation to the ISO 9001-2000 quality
standard represents independent verification of the Company' s
compliance with some of the key elements of corporate governance.
Since 2001, the Company has also held the Investor in People
accreditation. This recognises the Group' s dedication to employee
development.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Cumulative
Patient 
Numbers
Estimate
2009
Estimate
Other 
mCRC
HCC
2008 2006 2007
Patients Recruited in Published Drug Eluting Bead Clinical Trials
77220 Pre 1  24/4/08  21:39  Page 4 Chairman' s Statement
Continued
ANNUAL REPORT 2007
5
Management of Risk 
The Biocompatibles' share price is more volatile than the average
share on the London stock market, not least because the Company 
is part of a volatile sector - of small/mid size healthcare technology
companies; and the sector had a very weak period in the last few
months of 2007, from which Biocompatibles was not, regrettably,
immune. But the Directors take the view that the Company' s 
investors are aware of this sector risk  and that they are looking 
for the exceptional returns that can be achieved when healthcare
technology is successfully commercialised. The Directors therefore
focus their review of risk on the issues that can cause a delay to
ultimate success as well as on those that can cause failure. For 
further details of the Group' s risk assessment and mitigation plan 
see page 30 of the Corporate Governance Report. The principal 
risks and uncertainties the Group faces are set out on pages 17 
and 18 of the Directors' Report. 
Outlook
Biocompatibles operates in the healthcare industry, where some
important trends affect most companies. These include the cost
escalation associated with the aging population - a process in which
the price of expensive new therapies is an additional financial burden
on payers. Evidence-based medicine and cost-benefit analysis -
especially of new therapies - is also increasingly a factor. 
We consider that Biocompatibles is well positioned in the context of
these issues. Cancer is a disease that affects older people and one
where there is self-evidently scope for more effective and better
tolerated treatments, like Drug-Eluting Beads, in comparison with 
the traditional cornerstones of oncology - systemic administration 
of toxic drugs. 
Our development programmes are also far less expensive than those
that are required for new pharmaceutical products. It is therefore in
this context that the Directors consider our strategic positioning to 
be eminently achievable - seeking to prove superiority - clinically 
and economically.
In summary, the Board considers that the technology and know-how
in both Farnham and Alzenau is developing well and that the progress
with the core programmes and our commercialisation strategy has
been good.  I know that our shareholders will recognise that business
success needs to be driven by our dedicated and expert people - 
and I am once again pleased to express my appreciation of their
commitment and of their many accomplishments - both in the UK 
and in Germany. 
Our year-on-year financial performance has improved, our cash
position is strong and we have made good progress against our
milestones. We continue to be highly focused on the creation of 
value for our shareholders.
Gerry Brown 
Chairman
77220 Pre 1:77220 pre 1  23/4/08  19:09  Page 5