 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 3
2012 marked a year of significant change for the Group. The abrupt reduction in demand in the European bioplastics markets
during the second quarter created a highly challenging business environment. Subsequently, the Group has shifted its focus further
towards its strategy of targeting opportunities in the bioplastic market that require higher functionality and are market leading in
their application.
The sale of the Group's 50% share in Biotec Holding GmbH (Biotec) for  5.2m on 1 October 2012 has enabled the Bioplastic
Division to focus its attention on the commercialisation and development of its wholly owned intellectual property where there is a
strong product offering and the Board sees significant potential for growth. Notably, the Biotec sale also eliminates the Group's
liability with regard to the Novamont litigation and provides a significant cash inflow which generates further options for delivering
sustainability.
Despite some turbulence in the market, the Stanelco RF Technologies Division had another profitable year and continues to develop
its leading position in the optical fibre furnace market whilst broadening its portfolio.
Results
Pro-forma Group revenues (including consolidation of Biotec for nine months) were  11.0m (2011:  19.1m). The decrease was
predominantly due to legislative changes within the European bioplastics market, which negatively impacted demand. Including the
mitigation from a further cost reduction exercise initiated in May, the Group loss after taxation, excluding exceptional items was
 2.4m (2011: loss of  1.1m). The loss after taxation on continuing activities was  2.0m (2011: loss of  1.3m). The loss associated
with the Biotec discontinuing activities was  0.4m (2011: profit of  0.3m). Including the discontinued activities and the exceptional
loss of  3.4m on the sale of Biotec, the loss per share was 0.098 pence (2011: loss per share of 0.018 pence).
The wholly owned Bioplastics Division experienced a reduction in revenues to  3.4m (2011:  6.4m) as demand fell and the business
reduced sales of products previously bought (and sold on) from Biotec following the separation. The Biotec revenues are disclosed
as discontinued activities and on a proportional basis were  5.4m to the date of its sale (2011:  9.8m). The resulting operating loss
for the continuing Division was  1.0m (2011:  0.4m).
The Stanelco RF Technologies Division had another profitable year, albeit reduced operating profits of  0.4m (2011:  0.6m) as some
revenues from Asia were delayed over the period end. The Division's revenues were  2.3m (2011:  2.9m). In January 2012,
Stanelco announced a new development and supply contract with Durapipe, as the Company continues to successfully diversify
and expand its product range.
In the last quarter of 2012, following the sale of Biotec, the Group's revenues were  0.8m. The majority of this revenue was
generated in the RF Division and this sales profile is expected to continue until the Bioplastics Division's most promising projects,
referred to below, move into their manufacturing phase.
Cash
The Group's cash resources continued to be managed prudently throughout the year with the cash position at 31 December 2012
at  6.3m (31 December 2011:  2.4m). Over the year, the cash utilised by continuing operations was  0.8m (2011:  1.4m), which
benefited from a  0.7m reversal in working capital as balances relating to Biotec were wound down. As a result of the sale of
Biotec the Group received a net cash inflow of  5.0m. There was no significant investment in the year in new property, plant and
equipment (2011:  0.1m) and  0.3m in product development (2011:  0.4m).
The Group's existing debt facility remained unused throughout 2012 and, given current cash balances and working capital
requirements, the facility was terminated on 22nd January 2013 resulting in modest future cost savings.
Chairman's statement 4 Biome Technologies plc
Strategy
Biome Bioplastics
The sale of Biotec has allowed a tighter focus on this Division's strategy of targeting opportunities in the bioplastic market that
require higher functionality and are market leading in their application. In the short term, this involves a focus on the markets
where Biome differentiated products are in demand, particulalry those requiring thermal stability and modified rheology for coating.
In this context, the two most promising projects underway are:
  Single use foodservice products - The pre-launch evaluation work with a leading manufacturer of high performance food
service products continues to progress well. This is a project that was first initiated in 2009 and the customer has committed
significant resources to the product's deployment to date. The optimised product is now in the late stage of testing for
composting performance and high-speed manufacture. Technical and commercial progress is running slightly ahead of
schedule and market testing is expected to start in the third quarter.
  Single use coffee capsules - This project is also progressing according to expectations. Begun in 2010, detailed formulation
work through 2011 and 2012 led to market testing in the fourth quarter of 2012. Subsequently, an initial launch was
undertaken in January 2013 with some 40 tonnes of bioplastic delivered. Manufacturing of the product is now scaling up in
the USA with a view to launching with a broader range of end-use coffee brands through the year. Demand projections
continue to be firm.
Whilst the expected growth trajectories of both these applications is strong, they are still in their development phase. Their actual
performance and contribution to the Group will become clearer during the second half of the year when they are expected to pass
into a predominantly manufacturing phase. 
With maturing interest in these novel bioplastics from the food service/coffee markets, the Bioplastics Division has been broadening
its contact with potential customers in these sectors in both Europe and the USA. There are encouraging signs from this market and
a number of other trials have been initiated.
To support the expected manufacturing requirements arising from these projects, the Division has been evaluating and trialling with
a small number of potential toll-converters. This work is proceeding well with a UK based manufacturer with significant capacity
and large scale trials are now being undertaken. 
The Division has also been investigating opportunities for the manufacture of bio-based materials through the use of synthetic
biology. This is an emerging technology and Biome has a small number of exploratory collaborations with both academic and
industrial partners. The UK Government has identified the commercialisation of synthetic biology as an area of high priority where
the UK can build a world leading position. The Board is identifying ways to accelerate business in this area, without depleting the
Group's cash resources with the full development costs and is awaiting the result of a grant application to the Technology Strategy
Board (a Government body charged with making the UK a global leader in innovation). The result of this application is expected in
the near future.
Stanelco RF Technology
The Stanelco RF Technologies Division continues to see a wider variety of opportunities opening up as the business grows. There
was a subdued end to 2012 as a number of optical fibre furnace deliveries were delayed due to some uncertainties in the Chinese
fibre market; this market is expected to return to growth as the current year unfolds. Progress continues on the Durapipe project
and the delivery timing for ten pre-production units will be finalised following time-based testing of the final pipe-work over the
next quarter.
Chairman's statement continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 5
Neil Martin, who has ably led this Division for the past 4 years has decided to step down from commercial life in February 2013 and
we thank him for the transformation in performance he has brought to the business over the past few years. Paul Mines (our
Group CEO) will lead this Division for the time being whilst we recruit a replacement Managing Director.
Group
The Group continues to challenge all aspects of its cost base as exemplified by the cost reduction programme initiated in May
2012. In this context, the legacy long leases on three buildings in Southampton remain a significant drag on the path towards
profitability and the Board is exploring a number of strategies that might mitigate this outflow. To this end, Bailey Watkins LLP (a
specialist property consultancy) has been engaged to support the Board in determining whether early termination of one or more of
the leases is in the economic interest of the Group. Discussions are underway with the landlord. Separately, the Board continues to
market these buildings vigorously as available for sub-lease.
As outlined previously, the Board is assessing the potential scope for returning funds to shareholders that may be in excess of those
required in the medium term. This would require a Court sanctioned re-organisation of capital, given the large accumulated losses
and substantial share premium accounts on the Group's balance sheet. Furthermore, an evaluation of the cash requirements in the
medium term must be predicated on, amongst other things, greater clarity on the legacy cost issues described above.
Board and Employees
In November 2012, Declan Brown stepped down as Group Finance Director and from the Board. We thank him for his strong
support and contribution during his tenure and wish him well for the future.
Michael Kayser, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, has taken over the Finance Director's duties on a part time and interim
basis.
I would like to thank all employees for their help and support during this year of change. We have a great team in place, ably led
by Paul Mines, and they will continue to move the Group forward towards sustainability.
Outlook
Biome continues to progress with new products and technologies to improve its future prospects and develop new markets.  It is
particularly encouraging to see a number of these technologies at an advanced stage on the path towards commercialisation in
both Bioplastics and RF Technologies.
Our main focus this year will be both to actively promote and support the growth of our Divisions and to reduce our ongoing
legacy liabilities.
It is expected that the prospects for the two leading bioplastic projects will emerge more clearly in the second half of 2013 and that
the Group's performance for this year will be weighted accordingly.
John Standen
Chairman
27th March 2013
Chairman's statement continued