 2 BIOQUELL PLC Annual Report 2005
Chairman's statement
Overview
The BIOQUELL Group comprises two divisions: Bio-decontamination
solutions and TRAC - Testing, Regulatory and Compliance - which
includes Cape and the new service businesses acquired last year.
Results and finance
The financial information for the BIOQUELL Group published in 
this document reflects the application of the new International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and includes reconciliations to
UK GAAP. Information on the effects of IFRS on the Group's results
is set out below and was also provided at the time of the 2005
interim results which was published in September 2005.
Turnover increased by 11% to  17.2 million (2004:  15.5 million),
largely due to increases in bio-decontamination services, defence
equipment and the turnover attributable to the two businesses
acquired in October 2005. Bio-decontamination equipment saw 
a significant increase in revenues in the second half. The overall
consolidated gross margin remained stable at 37%.
IFRS requires a new accounting treatment for research and
development costs. Gross expenditure on product development 
in the period, was  1.2 million (2004:  0.9 million). Following 
the application of IFRS the total amount relating to research and
development charged to the income statement was  0.4 million
(2004:  0.4 million). The principal product development activities 
in the year comprised work associated with hospital acquired
infection, wound healing and additions to the Clarus range of 
bio-decontamination equipment. The Group continues to invest 
in technological innovation and upgrading its existing product 
and service ranges.
Loss before tax was  0.5 million (2004: profit of  0.1 million).
It is notable that the financial performance of the Group improved
in the second half of 2005 with revenues of  10.2 million 
(2005 H1:  7.0 million), a 46% increase, and profit before tax 
of  0.2 million (2005 H1 loss:  0.7 million).
Net cash from operating activities improved by 42% to 
 1.7 million (2004:  1.2 million). Capital expenditure was 
 1.2 million (2004:  0.8 million), principally relating to investment
in bio-decontamination equipment for the Group's service
businesses and the TRAC division. During the year  0.4 million
(2004:  0.2 million) was paid as consideration for businesses
acquired.
Net debt at the year end was  1.6 million (30 June 2005:  0.9 million)
and net assets were  10.1 million (30 June 2005:  9.5 million).
The Group has overdraft facilities of  2.2 million of which 
 1.2 million was used at the year end, a euro denominated loan 
of  0.4 million and other debt finance of  0.1 million.
Activities
Bio-decontamination solutions
Some three years ago, BIOQUELL pioneered the development 
of new technology which enabled rooms or buildings to be 
bio-decontaminated and achieve the same level of sterility as 
that achieved using a steam steriliser. Prior to this innovation it 
was not realistically practical or feasible for hospitals to sterilise
rooms or wards - thereby eradicating problematic bacteria from 
the environment. Further, BIOQUELL's technology leaves no
problematic residues and is compatible with sensitive electronics.
The technology has applications in the life sciences sector -
including, for example, vaccine production or the eradication of
avian flu. It also has significant opportunities in the healthcare
sector worldwide to help combat hospital acquired infection, often
referred to in the UK as superbugs .
Last month data was presented at a leading US healthcare infection
control conference by a US expert, in conjunction with the US
Government's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC ),
which showed that the use of BIOQUELL's technology reduced
significantly the rate of patient infection with Clostridium difficile,
a problematic superbug . (Clostridium difficile is an antibiotic
resistant superbug  which recently mutated to produce a new,
hyper-virulent strain which causes severe disease and sometimes
death to patients; it is thought that this new strain is present in 
at least 40 hospitals in the UK.) These data are extremely important 
as they demonstrate scientifically for the first time the link between 
a reduction in the level of bacterial contamination giving rise to a
reduction in patient infection rates. (There is constant reintroduction
of superbugs  back into the hospital environment from patients
from other healthcare facilities, particularly nursing homes and/or
long term care facilities.) Significant interest is being shown in
BIOQUELL's technology in the US healthcare sector and the Board
anticipates strong growth will follow in this market.
Other opportunities exist for the use of BIOQUELL's 
bio-decontamination technology in the defence and life sciences
sector. Further, BIOQUELL's technology should help combat
contamination from avian flu.
New Wound Healing technology
Over the last several years the Group has invested significant
resources into the development of its novel new wound healing
technology. The technology draws upon the Group's expertise in
research and development, complex engineering and the application
of peroxy chemistry. Chronic wounds - typically wounds which
have not healed after six weeks - are a substantial and expensive
problem for healthcare providers. For example, experts have
estimated that some 0.2% to 1% of the total population - and
between 1% to 3% of the elderly population - suffer from venous
Significant interest is being shown in
BIOQUELL's technology in the US 
Healthcare Sector
25513 PRE  7/4/06  3:58 pm  Page 2 leg ulcers. BIOQUELL carried out successful clinical trials last year
with one of the UK's leading wound healing research units; a 
further set of clinical trials will start later this year. Work is currently
underway to secure UK regulatory approval to launch a product on
the EU market; we expect to gain UK regulatory approval before the
end of the year. Work is also underway to obtain appropriate data
to fulfil the requirements of the US regulators.
TRAC - Testing, Regulatory and Compliance - division
Following the acquisition of two specialist testing and compliance
businesses last year, it was decided to establish a new division:
TRAC (Testing, Regulatory and Compliance). This division comprises
all the Group's testing service businesses including Cape, EMC
Projects, TRL Compliance and KTL.
Cape, which carries out environmental testing for a range of 
clients including the aerospace and defence sectors, had a
satisfactory first half but started to experience reduced margins in
the second half due, in part, to substantially higher electricity costs
which have proven difficult to pass on to clients to date. Following
the acquisition of the new businesses and the establishment of 
a separate division the management structure of Cape has been
changed to reduce its cost base. We are anticipating that there will
be opportunities to increase Cape's revenues as a result of cross
referrals from companies within the TRAC division.
Following the dotcom  collapse in 2000, it is now clear that large
parts of the telecoms sector have recovered and appear to be
trading strongly. KTL, which focuses on telecoms testing with a
particular focus on DSL technology, has seen strong levels of
activity in the US and, in the UK, from multi-national groups.
A cost reduction programme, which was planned prior to
acquisition, has been largely completed and involved making
approximately 20% of the employees redundant. The business is
now profitable and growing.
KTL Inc's newly established specialist DSL testing laboratory in
Santa Clara, California has now been approved by the Regional Bell
Operating Companies (RBOCs) for DSL testing and order levels are
increasing. KTL Inc. has been deliberately located close to a number
of the large US telecoms hardware manufacturers in California
which is helping this business grow fast.
TRL Compliance, which focuses principally on EMC testing, is also
seeing strong levels of activity, particularly from the defence sector.
TRL Compliance currently operates from six sites, and planned 
site consolidation will improve the services which TRL Compliance
provides to its clients. Plans are underway to ensure closer sales and
marketing co-operation between TRL Compliance, Cape and EMC
Projects (Cape's existing EMC testing subsidiary).
Prospects 
The international healthcare markets which the Group is targeting
are substantial and the Group, in conjunction with appropriate
partners, should benefit significantly from being the first entrant to
these markets with new technology. As with all new technologies,
forecasting adoption rates is difficult; however, the successful 
trials in the US and positive market feedback mean that we are
increasingly confident about achieving fast growth in North
America. The opportunities relating to BIOQUELL's new wound
healing technology also look attractive. Moreover, the significant
expansion of the Group's testing services via the acquisitions in
October 2005 and the establishment of the TRAC division means
that the funding of the development of the Group's blockbuster 
technologies will be assisted by this profitable and growing division.
John Salkeld
Chairman
11 April 2006
BIOQUELL's technology is highly effective at eradicating
superbugs  from the hospital environment and can
significantly reduce the patient infection rate of
BIOQUELL PLC Annual Report 2005 3 
25513 PRE  7/4/06  3:58 pm  Page 3
superbug  Clostridium difficile