 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
15
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Introduction
I am delighted to announce that BNB has built
upon its positive results of 2004 and has more
than doubled its operating profit before goodwill
amortisation from  1.2m in 2004 to  2.6m 
in 2005.
Business Overview
During the year, we remained focused on
developing our Recruitment Solutions and
Recruitment Consultancy business areas with the
objective of helping our public and private sector
clients generate a greater return from their
human resource investments, whether through
the attraction, recruitment or retention of the
best people.  
Our primary focus is on organic growth and on
improving the profitability and cash generation of
our current businesses. In addition, to the extent
that we identify suitable opportunities, we would
also consider targeted acquisitions. 
We have a portfolio of businesses trading under 
a number of recognised brands, with offices
throughout the UK and in Spain, Italy and
Switzerland, in addition to which we also have
minority investments in Sweden and Germany. 
As the recruitment and human resources markets
develop the Group is rapidly changing its mix 
of business to reflect changes in technology 
and to offer more support and advice to client
companies. We are building longer term
relationships with clients, helping them reduce
their costs and time to hire and helping them
position themselves as employers of choice in
their particular market places. This is providing
us with a more reliable and sustainable income
stream and with improved earnings.
Alongside the development of these consultancy-
led solutions, technology is also playing an
increasing role in reducing costs to hire for our
clients and in improving efficiency. During 2005 
we successfully implemented a new IT platform 
to support our main Barkers business, the client
benefits of which we expect to see in 2006. This
significant project was completed on schedule
and within budget, and provides a modern IT
platform for the business as it enters a period 
of rapid change and growth. We expect to see
significant increases in candidate management
and assessment and on line services in 2006, 
and demand for these added value services and
new technology approaches is strong, more than
offsetting the ongoing decline in the traditional
newspaper recruitment advertising market.
Moving forward, we intend to continue to pursue
our stated strategy which has been successful.  
In order to strengthen the balance sheet and to
provide working capital to meet development
needs we raised a further  5.1 million, largely
from certain existing shareholders, towards the
end of the year. We shall continue to look for
ways to increase shareholder value in the future.  CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
16
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The results of the group for the period are summarised as follows:
2005 2004 
 m  m
Turnover
Recruitment Solutions 139.8 125.6 +11%
Recruitment Consultancy 36.0 26.2 +38%
175.8 151.8 +16%
Gross Profit (net fee income)
Recruitment Solutions 25.8 23.6 +9%
Recruitment Consultancy 24.9 16.7 +49%
50.7 40.3 +26%
Gross Margin 28.8% 26.6%
Operating Profit
1
Continuing Operations
Recruitment Solutions 2.21.6+42%
Recruitment Consultancy 1.6 1.0 +53%
3.8 2.6 +47%
Central Costs (1.2) (1.2)
2.6 1.4 +87%
Discontinued operations - (0.2)
Total operating profit 2.6 1.2 +123%
Goodwill amortisation (0.9) (0.5)
(Loss)/profit on sale of investments (0.1) 0.1
Interest (1.1) (0.7)
Profit before tax 0.5 0.1 +380%
Profit/(loss) after tax 0.4 (0.1)
1
before goodwill amortisation
Operations
Our businesses operate in two main areas,
Recruitment Solutions and Recruitment
Consultancy. Across both areas we advise 
clients at a strategic and tactical level on
improving competitiveness, impact and
productivity through implementing superior
people attraction, recruitment and retention
programmes. These programmes identify, 
select, acquire and develop the most talented
individuals and teams. 
Recruitment Solutions
Under our Barkers and TCS brands we provide
a wide cross section of public and private
sector clients with the following services:
  employer branding strategies;
  recruitment advertising;
  online/offline media planning and buying;
  response handling, candidate management
and assessment;
  recruitment solutions - tailored 
 end to end' attraction, recruitment 
and retention programmes.
Historically the core business has been in the
high volume, low margin printed recruitment
advertising sector. Over the last two years 
we have focused on expanding our higher
margin, consultancy-led solutions business
and on improving the efficiency of our
traditional recruitment advertising offering,
the latter largely through the implementation
of new technology. This dual approach, which
leads to lower costs of delivery and longer
term client relationships, has resulted in a
number of high profile client wins in 2005,
including a global technology and management
consultancy group, a number of central
government agencies and local government
authorities, and a large clearing bank, and is
being continued in 2006.  
The Recruitment Solutions businesses
generated net fee income (gross profit) 
of  25.8m in 2005 (2004:  23.6m) and
operating profit before goodwill of  2.2m
(2004:  1.6m).  17
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Recruitment Consultancy
Our Recruitment Consultancy businesses service a
similarly wide cross section of public and private
sector clients under the following brands:
  Norman Broadbent - top level executive
search, management search and selection,
interim management, executive assessment 
and leadership consultancy and recruitment
process outsourcing (RPO)
  MGMS and PSK - mid market search 
and selection in specialist niche sectors
  Contaplus - accounting and finance search 
and selection
  Garfield Robbins - legal recruitment
  Ad Interim and Hamlin Knight - 
temporary staffing 
  Career World's PCS, CW Consulting and
Exec2Exec brands - career management 
and outplacement services.
The recruitment market is a cyclical one and our
strategy is to build deeper relationships with our
clients and to work with them as partners. Key to
this strategy is the expansion of our RPO offering,
where we establish long-term retained contracts
with our clients.
We have a clear strategy in 2006 to develop 
our search and selection businesses through
recruiting practice leaders and teams specialising
in niche sectors and through developing further
our leadership consultancy offering.
The Recruitment Consultancy businesses
generated net fee income (gross profit) of
 24.9m in 2005 (2004:  16.7m) and operating
profit from continuing operations before goodwill
of  1.6m (2004:  1.0m).
Accounting Standards and IFRS
As an AIM listed Group, BNB is not yet required to
implement IFRS. We have, however, implemented
two new UK Financial Reporting Standards in
2005 which have had a material, non-cash, impact
on our results. The corresponding figures for
2004 have been restated in accordance with
these standards.
FRS17 Retirement benefits  requires us to show
the deficit on the Group's defined benefit pension
scheme as a liability on the balance sheet. At 31
December 2005 the deficit on a FRS17 basis was
 6.6m (2004:  3.6m). The deficit increased
during the period due to changes in the actuarial
assumptions for mortality rates and a reduction
in the yields on corporate bonds, the investment
gains having exceeded the MFR deficit at the last
valuation as at December 2003. Changes in the
pension deficit due to changes in these actuarial
assumptions are recognised in the consolidated
statement of total recognised gains and losses
and do not affect profitability.
FRS 20 Share-based payment  requires us to
charge the fair value of share-based incentives,
largely share options, to the profit and loss account.
A more detailed analysis of the impact of these
standards was presented in our interim report. 
People
As we announced in our interim report, 
Doug Bugie stepped down as Chief Executive
Officer of Norman Broadbent during 2005. 
We are pleased to retain his skills on the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director. Krista Walochik, 
who took over Doug's role within Norman Broadbent,
was appointed to the Board in December 2005.
Krista has been with the Group since 1994,
initially as Chief Executive of Norman Broadbent
Spain and latterly as Chief Operating Officer of
Norman Broadbent UK.
In January 2006 we announced that Simon
Grinstead, Executive Chairman, was taking 
an extended leave of absence due to ill health.  
I have assumed the role of Non-Executive
Chairman on an interim basis during Simon's
absence and other senior executives have
absorbed Simon's operational responsibilities 
for the time being. The management team has
responded positively and has risen to this
challenge and the structure is working well. 
We wish Simon a rapid recovery.
I should like to thank the staff of BNB for their
dedication and commitment throughout the year.
Businesses within the recruitment industry can
only be as good as the people within them and
we are fortunate to have some of the most highly
skilled and enthusiastic employees in the industry.
Current Group trading and prospects
We are pleased that the Group has again improved
its profitability thanks to the dynamic restructuring
of the underlying businesses. We will continue 
to look for ways to exploit new technologies to
reduce client cost to hire, to invest in our people
and to develop niche sectors within the
recruitment market.  
Overall market conditions have remained stable
during the first three months of 2006 and trading
has been in line with our expectations. We remain
convinced that the Group can continue to show
significant improvements in financial performance
in its main businesses in 2006.
Roderick MacLeod                                                        
Chairman
19 April 2006