 3
Chairman's Statement
MARKET CONDITIONS
Following a prolonged downturn in the
recruitment market, within which BNB
operates, conditions throughout 2003 were
more stable than they have been since
2000, although the market still declined
year on year, albeit at a slower rate.
The National Press Recruitment Advertising
Index, a key measure for our Barkers
recruitment communications and solutions
business, was an average of 9.2% down on
2002, ending the year at a level 48.6%
below its peak in August 2000. Across the
private sector, the average activity was down
by 14.0%, whilst public sector recruitment
activity fell less, with a drop of 5.3%.
In light of these market indicators, we were
particularly pleased with the performance of
our Barkers recruitment communications
and solutions business, which increased its
market share and showed a 6.2% increase
in turnover.
In the recruitment consultancy sector, within
which our Norman Broadbent and Garfield
Robbins businesses operate, market
conditions in the first six months of 2003
continued to be difficult. In the second half of
the year, conditions were more stable, with
demand for staff beginning to strengthen.  
RESULTS
Turnover from continuing operations of
 123.7m (2002:  116.9m) was 5.8% up
year on year. This increase, combined with
the benefits from the rebasing exercise in
2001 and 2002, where the cost base was
reduced by  16m on an annualised basis,
resulted in reduced operating losses from
continuing businesses of  1.3m (2002:
 2.7m) before exceptional charges. After
losses from discontinued businesses of
 0.2m (2002:  0.1m), net exceptional
charges of  3.9m (2002:  1.6m), losses on
disposal of subsidiaries of  0.3m (2002:
 0.5m profit) and interest of  0.4m (2002:
 0.6m), the pre-tax loss for the year was
 6.2m (2002:  4.5m).
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Net operating exceptional charges for the
year to 31st December 2003 of  3.9m
(2002:  1.6m) included a provision of
 3.5m as a result of the previously reported
receivership of the ATC Group, a tenant in a
number of properties in which BNB has lease
interests. We have engaged agents and are
in the process of marketing surplus space.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Our businesses operate in two main areas,
recruitment communications and solutions,
under the Barkers brand, and recruitment
consultancy, under the Norman Broadbent
and Garfield Robbins brands. Each of our
brands is long-standing and has a high level
of recognition in its particular market place.
Recruitment Communications 
and Solutions 
Barkers is the longest established and
second largest recruitment communications
and solutions business in the UK, with a
reputation for excellence in client service
and creativity, the latter evidenced by its
continued success in being nominated for
and in winning industry awards, including 
at the Recruitment Advertising Awards, 
the CIPD Recruitment Advertising Awards
and, in Scotland, at the inaugural
Recruitment Business Awards 2003, where
Barkers was the Recruitment Advertising
Agency of the Year. Within Scotland, our
Barkers business also operates as an award-
winning commercial advertising and public
relations agency.
Following our reorganisation of the business
last year , where we combined our operations
in Scotland with those in England under a
single leadership structure, the business
increased its market share with turnover
increasing by 6.2% to  113.3m (2002:
 106.6m) and the business moved back into
profit with a result before exceptional
charges of  0.8m (2002:  0.4m loss).
We continued throughout 2003 to build on
our relationships with strategic partners,
namely ZenithOptimedia Group, with
whom we have created the first media
buying independent specialising in
recruitment advertising, and Publicis, with
whom we have formed  Talent Village', a
network of highly regarded recruitment
solutions agencies which gives the Barkers
business significant international reach.
Market conditions throughout 2003 were
more stable than we have seen in recent
years and new business wins continued 
to be encouraging, giving us optimism for
the future.
The Board continues to hold the strong view
that the Barkers market position and its high
level of brand recognition gives it a high
inherent value which is not reflected in the
Group's balance sheet. 
Recruitment Consultancy
Following the acquisition of Garfield
Robbins Limited in September 2003, our
recruitment consultancy division contains
both the Norman Broadbent and Garfield
Robbins branded businesses and operates in
the following areas:
  top level executive search, mid market
search and selection, and integrated
managed recruitment solutions under the
Norman Broadbent brand; and
  specialist legal sector recruitment under
the Garfield Robbins brand.
Turnover for the year before acquisitions
was  10.1m (2002:  10.2m), with a loss
before interest and exceptional items of
 0.6m (2002:  0.6m), reflecting the
investments made in the year to recruit
practice leaders and small teams in selected
niche sectors.
The market for permanent recruitment has
been difficult during 2003, although in
recent months we have seen more stability
and initial signs of improvement.
Overseas, our Spanish operation, based in
Madrid and Barcelona, performed well in a
market that, particularly during the first half,
remained challenging. 4
Chairman's Statement
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
AND EMPLOYEES
As we reported at the time of announcing
the acquisition of the Apollo group of
businesses and the Placing and Open Offer
at the end of February 2004, Simon
Grinstead, who has acted as a consultant to
the Group, will assume the position of
Group Chief Executive and will join the
Board in May of this year.
In addition, I am pleased to announce the
appointment of Robert Bain, the Chief
Executive of the Barkers business, to the
Board, effective immediately. Robert, who 
is aged 53, has been with the Group for 
the last 17 years, and was responsible for
the successful growth and development of
the Barkers Scotland business prior to his
appointment to his current position in the
latter part of 2002.
I should also like to pay a sincere tribute 
to all of our staff throughout the Group.
Businesses within the recruitment industry
can only be as good as the people who
contribute to all aspects of their operations
and in this regard we are fortunate to have
some of the most highly skilled and
dedicated employees in the industry. 
ACQUISITIONS
In line with our strategy, to enhance organic
growth through a series of targeted
acquisitions, we announced the acquisition
of Garfield Robbins Limited, a leading legal
sector recruitment specialist, in September
2003. More recently, in February of this year,
we announced the proposed acquisition of
the Apollo group of companies, specialists in
accounting and finance search and
selection, temporary staffing, and career
management and outplacement services,
which has operations in the UK,
Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Sweden and
Spain. The acquisition will combine the
interests of Roderick MacLeod, a Director of
BNB and major shareholder, and Martin
Pestalozzi, a major shareholder, within the
one group. Both Roderick and Martin have
successful track records in the recruitment
industry through their involvement in the
international expansion of Adia and the
subsequent purchase and refinancing, in
1991, of Select Appointments, prior to its
sale to the Vedior group in 1999. 
In addition to the proposed acquisition of
the Apollo group, completion of which is
scheduled for the end of this month, we also
announced a Placing and Open Offer to
raise  8.0m, the  7.7m net proceeds of
which will be applied as follows:
   1.2m in respect of the initial
consideration for the Apollo transaction
and associated costs;
   2.5m in respect of working capital for
the Enlarged Group; and
   4.0m, which will strengthen the Group' s
balance sheet, providing additional
working capital, should this be required,
and will enable the Company to continue
to pursue its acquisition strategy. 
INDEBTEDNESS
Net indebtedness at 31st December 2003
was  3.9m (2002:  2.5m). During the year,
the net cash outflow from operating
activities was  0.1m (2002:  2.3m). Net
proceeds of  7.7m from the Placing and
Open Offer announced in February 2004
will be received on Completion of the
acquisition of the Apollo group of
companies. On a pro forma basis, and after
taking into account the  1.2m Apollo initial
consideration and associated costs, net 
cash at 31st December 2003 would have
been  2.6m. 
DIVIDEND
The Board proposes no dividend for the year
(2002:   nil).
PROSPECTS
Whilst any loss is disappointing, the results
for our continuing businesses for 2003,
before exceptional charges, were significantly
better than those in 2002. Our Barkers
business returned to profitability and our
central overheads were materially reduced,
reflecting actions taken at the end of 2002.
Within the Norman Broadbent business,
increased costs were attributable to the
investments made during the year in
practice leaders and small teams in chosen
niche areas as they established themselves
within the business.
Market conditions have continued to be
stable in recent months, with some small
signs of improvement, and trading so far
this year is in line with our expectations.
Our actions over the last two years to
restructure our businesses, together with
our continuing strong brand presence, give
us confidence that in the event of a
sustained market upturn we can restore the
shareholder value that the Board believes 
is contained within the Group.
Continued
Julian Treger
Chairman
25th March 2004