 2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2
Overview
I am delighted to inform investors that
AMS has delivered maiden profits
following a profitable second half year. 
Group turnover was up 17% to  12.9
million for the full year, with growth
achieved across both business units,
advanced woundcare and wound
closure, and in all key markets. In
advanced woundcare, the branded and
private label partner business grew at
double the market rate, as the
Company strengthened its position in
the dynamic silver alginate market with
further launches in US and Europe
during 2005. Good progress was made
in the UK in establishing the
ActivHeal  generic woundcare range.
Independent technical and clinical
evaluations have shown that these
products offer equivalent performance
when compared with branded products
while still maintaining the quality of
patient care. The ActivHeal  range has
been shown to significantly reduce the
cost of treating wounds, offering real
and immediate savings to the NHS.
These savings are estimated to be of
the order of  25 million per year. In
wound closure, the Company
broadened its LiquiBand  product
range and is currently in the process of
obtaining approval for these products
in the US, Japan and China. Also it
strengthened its position in Europe
with the launch of LiquiBand
Laparoscopic .
The turnover growth, together with
further improvement in gross margin
from 37% to 40% and continued
control of operating expenses, resulted
in a small pre-tax profit in 2005,
compared with a  1.0 million loss in
the prior year. A post-tax profit of 
 0.3 million was reported following
recognition of an R & D tax credit and
a deferred tax asset. EBITDA improved
from break-even to  1.0 million for the
period. The Group generated a total of
 0.2 million of cash in the year
resulting in cash of  3.4 million at 
the year-end. 
Good progress has been made during
2005 in positioning the Company for
major future growth opportunities in key
business areas and global markets. By
delivering its stated strategy of bringing
the existing business through to break-
even within current cash, management
has now provided a solid financial
platform for this future growth.
Operating Review
The Group's core focus remains the
development and manufacture of
advanced woundcare and wound
closure products for sale in hospitals
and long-term care facilities.
Advanced woundcare products are
marketed and distributed into the 
The Group has delivered maiden
profits providing a solid financial
platform for future growth. 3
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
3
$2.6 billion global market through
either major woundcare companies
under their leading brands or through
private label distributors. Products
based upon cyanoacrylate technology
address the emerging tissue adhesives
segment of the $5 billion wound
closure market. This market is
currently accessed through a direct
sales force in the UK and through
distribution partners in Europe. The
direct UK sales force also carries a full
range of standard advanced woundcare
products for sale into the NHS hospital
and community care markets under the
ActivHeal  brand.
Progress continues to be made in
reducing the Group's dependence on
the performance of its major branded
partners for delivering revenue growth
and profit. Its strategy of broadening
its routes to market, by complementing
these relationships with the provision
of private label standard products to
major distributors and by the expansion
of its direct sales presence in the UK
home market, continues to be
successful.
Advanced Woundcare
Advanced woundcare sales of  10.5
million were up 18% on the prior year,
which at double the market growth rate
reflects good progress made in gaining
market share.
The Company's position in the dynamic
silver market was strengthened with the
introduction of its fibre based silver
alginate technology into Europe under a
leading brand and the launch by a
number of partners of alginate
dressings incorporating ionic silver
alginate in the US. Silver is a broad
spectrum antimicrobial that helps to
prevent infections such as MRSA. In
combination with alginate, a biopolymer
derived from seaweed, AMS can provide
products ideally suited to treatment of
a wide variety of chronic wounds.
Local MP Stephen O'Brien opens a new
manufacturing line at the AMS Winsford facility. 4 4
This transition to higher value products
fits with the Company's route to market
strategy, whereby the Company licenses
its new technology to major branded
partners that are best placed to create
these markets on a global basis, whilst
the Company also addresses the cost
pressures on healthcare budgets by
providing a value range of products for
routine use. These products are sold
via private label distributors or direct to
the NHS under its ActivHeal  brand.
Further progress has been made with
the ActivHeal  offering during the
year. Independent technical and
clinical assessment has shown that
ActivHeal  products are equivalent to
or better than the branded versions
whilst offering significant savings,
typically 40%, against current spend.
This represents  25 million per year in
England and Scotland at a time of
severe funding pressure. Nine Trusts
are currently using ActivHeal  and
realising savings. Central decision
making bodies are now being targeted
to encourage early adoption and
savings throughout the NHS to
accelerate this programme.
Complementing this approach, the Group
continues to fund the development of
new differentiated products for licensing
to its major branded partners.
Progress continues to be made in
accessing the Far East market with a
number of products currently
undergoing regulatory approval in
Japan in collaboration with a marketing
partner, Nitto Medical.
Wound Closure
The wound closure business grew 11%
to  2.4 million in the year despite a
slow first quarter in the NHS due to
pressure on budgets. Although the core
Accident & Emergency (A&E) business
was affected, the Company maintained
its strong market leadership position.
The European partner base has been
broadened with the addition of Baxter
Healthcare Europe as a marketing and
distribution partner for the key markets
of France and Spain. This has now
provided the Company with a presence
in all the key markets in Europe for the
products to be used in both A&E and
the Operating Room (OR).
The launch of LiquiBand
Laparoscopic  takes the Company into
an exciting new growth area. This
product was specifically designed to
target wound closure following
laparoscopic (keyhole) surgery, which is
an increasingly popular technique, with
more than 1 million procedures
currently performed in Europe each
year. Closure of keyhole incisions with
adhesives offers significant advantages
to both the surgeon and patient in
terms of clinical and cosmetic outcome.
This product is now on sale throughout
Europe. It forms an ideal complement
to the LiquiBand Surgical  product
which is more suited to larger wounds,
such as those following Caesarean
sections or hip replacement.
Excellent progress is being made in
delivering a profitable, high value
medical technology business.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 5
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
5
The Company has also initiated the
regulatory approval of the LiquiBand 
product range by the Food & Drug
Administration (FDA) in the US.
Approval is anticipated in 2007, which
will provide access to the major part of
the global $100 million tissue
adhesives market. The Company is also
progressing regulatory approval of
wound closure products in Japan and
China. These approvals in the US and
Far East markets offer very exciting
growth opportunities for the Company
in the medium to long term.
Development activity continues with a
view to extending the use of
cyanoacrylate technology for closing
wounds and protecting skin against
breakdown. The strategic partnership
with Kimberly-Clark for a novel surgical
skin sealant announced in March
2006, offers a very exciting new
business opportunity. The Company
expects to make further major
announcements about technology
developments in 2006.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group is extremely
positive. Good progress has been made
during the year in growing market
share. The Group is well positioned for
continued organic growth in key global
markets with its major branded and
private label partners and through its
direct UK sales into the NHS.
The Group's cash position and AIM
status provide it with the opportunity to
accelerate growth by making suitable
acquisitions which fit with the Group's
stated strategy and technologies.
I would like to thank all AMS
employees for their efforts over the
past year, particularly in bringing the
business through to profitability.
The Group is making excellent progress in
delivering a profitable high value medical
technology business for its stakeholders.
Dr Geoffrey N Vernon
Chairman
13 March 2006
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Picture Required
Three tier strategy to increase 
revenue and margins
Developer and Manufacturer:
AMS
Broadening routes to market
            Branded Partners Marketing New concepts
Private Label Partners Distributor Cost management
UK Direct End User