 135 13552 19/04/2007 Proof 4
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
02
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
A solid financial platform has been created
for future growth. 
Overview
I am delighted to inform investors that AMS
has gone from strength to strength in 2006,
improving its financial position considerably
and progressing key future growth
opportunities.
Group turnover increased 11% to  14.3
million with growth achieved across both
business units, advanced woundcare (up
9%) and wound closure and sealants (up
21%). Gross margins continued to improve
from 40% to 42%.
Pre-tax profits increased to  0.6 million
following achievement of break-even in
2005. Post-tax profits more than doubled to
 0.7 million resulting in earnings per share
(EPS) increasing 174% to 0.52p. EBITDA
was up 37% to  1.4 million. The Group
generated a total of  1.2 million of cash in
the year resulting in cash of  4.6 million at
the year-end and net funds of  4.2 million
(2005:  3.1 million). These results provide
a solid financial platform for future growth.
Good progress was made during 2006 with
the key identified organic growth drivers:
 Silver alginate   The Group further
strengthened its position in the dynamic
silver alginate market with launches in
Europe and the US with strategic partners.
 NHS woundcare   The number of NHS
Trusts using the ActivHeal
 
product range
has doubled to over 40 with good
geographical coverage of hospitals and
Primary Care Trusts in England and
Scotland in addition to the Northern
Ireland contract.
 Surgical skin sealant   An exciting new
market for surgical skin sealants was
entered into with Kimberly-Clark Health
Care, a global leader in infection control
in the operating room.
 New territories   US approval of the
LiquiBand
 
tissue adhesives range has
been progressed with entry expected
in 2008.
Operating Review
The Group's core focus remains the
development, manufacture and sale of
advanced woundcare dressings and products
for closing wounds and sealing tissue.
AMS provides a full range of advanced
woundcare dressings for sale into the
hospital, nursing home and community care
market. These products are used mainly for
chronic wounds such as ulcers and pressure
sores.
Products based upon cyanoacrylate adhesive
technology allow the closure of wounds
following trauma or surgical incisions, or
seal skin to protect against breakdown or
wound infection. These products address
the emerging tissue adhesives and sealants
segment of the wound closure market.
AMS has successfully adopted a three tier
route to market strategy:
 Branded Partners   The Group believes
that the most effective way of rapidly
commercialising new
technologies/concepts on a global basis is
through strategic partnerships with major
branded companies.

Private Label   AMS also addresses the
increasing trend towards private label in
advanced woundcare, driven by cost
constraints by health care providers, by
provision of own label products to
distributors. These products allow savings
to be made on treatment of routine wounds
alongside the use of the new innovative
products for more difficult wounds.
 Direct   AMS sells direct to the NHS in
its own home market.
Advanced Woundcare
Advanced woundcare sales of  11.5 million
were up 9% on the prior year.
Following US launches during 2005, the
Group further strengthened its position in the
dynamic silver market with the European
launch of a range of calcium alginate
woundcare dressings containing ionic silver
technology by a number of branded partners.
The ionic silver technology allows AMS to
provide selected partners an entry into the
expanding silver alginate woundcare market,
which is currently estimated at over $100
million worldwide and growing in excess of
20% per year. AMS introduced its fibre-
based silver alginate technology into the US
in 2004 and Europe in 2005 under an
exclusive, global agreement with a leading
brand. The Group now has a broad range of
partners covering different channels
(hospitals, nursing homes, home health) in
Europe and the US.
Silver is a broad spectrum anti-microbial that
helps to prevent infections such as MRSA. In
combination with alginate, a biopolymer
derived from seaweed, AMS can provide
products ideally suited to the treatment of a
wide variety of chronic wounds.
Steady progress continues to be made
with the Company's direct ActivHeal
 
offering to the NHS. More than 40 NHS
Hospital and Primary Care Trusts across
the UK have now adopted the ActivHeal
 
range of advanced woundcare products
allowing them to achieve substantial cost
savings at a time of severe funding
13552ADVANCE:Layout 1  20/4/07  12:28  Page 2 13552 19/04/2007 Proof 4
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
03
NHS BUSINESS BUILDING STEADILY 
//// Advanced Woundcare
//// Wound Closure and Sealants
Management's strategy of broadening
its routes to market continues to be
successful. Growth has been achieved
by commercialising new technologies
through major branded partners,
providing private label woundcare
products to distributors to address
cost constraints and by selling direct
to the NHS in the UK home market.
UK Direct End User
Private Label Partners Distributor Cost management
Branded Partners Marketing New concepts
Developer and
Manufacturer: AMS
Three tier strategy to increase
revenue and margins
BROADENING ROUTES TO MARKET
13552ADVANCE:Layout 1  20/4/07  12:28  Page 3 135 13552 19/04/2007 Proof 4
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
04
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
The outlook for the Group is extremely positive. 
pressures without compromising patient
care. Many more centres are currently
evaluating the product offering. The move
to ten Strategic Health Authorities within
the NHS should be a positive
development for the business as this
should result in a more streamlined,
centralised approach being adopted for
product evaluation and selection. Under
the present system each Trust
independently evaluates the product range
being offered, which delays the process of
introducing generic substitutes or
replacement new products.
We remain confident that our strategy of
delivering innovation to the NHS through
our R&D activities with major branded
companies, and offering real cost savings
through the ActivHeal
 
range, will be
successful, enabling us to capture a
significant share of the estimated  100
million UK advanced woundcare market.
Wound Closure and Sealants
The wound closure and sealants business
grew 21% to  2.9 million in the period as
the Group maintained its strong market
leadership position in the UK Accident &
Emergency arena and strengthened its
European partner business.
Based on cyanoacrylate medical adhesive
technology, the LiquiBand
 
range covers
products for closure of small cuts and
trauma wounds particularly to the face and
scalp, through to large surgical incisions
such as caesarean sections and hip
replacements. These products are approved
and on sale throughout Europe for use in
Accident & Emergency (A&E) and in
Operating Rooms. A number of NHS
Ambulance Trusts in the UK have also now
adopted LiquiBand
 
to close trauma wounds
at the scene of injury, thus potentially
reducing the number of A&E admissions.
Development activity to extend the
cyanoacrylate adhesive technology into new
areas has resulted in an exciting strategic
partnership with Kimberly-Clark for a novel
surgical skin sealant to help control the risk of
skin flora contamination throughout a surgical
procedure, a key factor in the development of
surgical site infections. AMS has developed an
innovative film-forming solution that bonds to
the skin sealing off the spaces where bacteria
can grow. Based upon patented technology,
the product immobilises endogenous
pathogens thereby reducing the risk of skin
flora contamination of the surgical site.
AMS has entered into an exclusive global
agreement with Kimberly-Clark Health Care
for the marketing and distribution of the
product under the Kimberly-Clark*
InteguSeal* Microbial Sealant brand.
Following regulatory approvals, this product
was launched in Europe in March 2006 and
in the US in February 2007.
Approval of the LiquiBand
 
product range
continues to progress in the US. The Group
anticipates entry into this $110 million
market in 2008 via a partner, with a product
range that is well proven in Europe. We
believe this will lead to significant value
creation in future.
Research & Development
The Group continued to build on its previous
successful technology programmes in
advanced woundcare dressings, silver
alginate and novel tissue adhesives and
sealants, by investing  1 million (7% of
turnover) on R&D during 2006. This activity
is maintaining a strong pipeline of new
products for our direct business and as a
technology provider for strategic partners.
Board
The AMS Board was strengthened with the
appointment of Chris Meredith as
Commercial Director in April 2006 and
Steve Bellamy as non-executive director in
February 2007. Chris has made a major
contribution to the continued successful
commercialisation of the Company's
technologies and Steve's strong City
experience will be of great value as the
Group continues to look for strategic
corporate opportunities to enhance growth.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group is extremely
positive with a strong start to 2007.
Organic growth is expected to progress due
to favourable woundcare demographics, a
blue chip partner base, the dynamic silver
market and widening acceptance of our
ActivHeal
 
woundcare range by NHS Trusts
in the UK. US approval and entry for our
LiquiBand
 
tissue adhesive range, and the
new surgical skin sealant market entry offer
step change opportunities for future growth
and value creation. The Company's move to
profitability and positive cash flow is also
allowing management to consider suitable
acquisitions to leverage AMS' technology
and distribution base.
I would like to thank all AMS employees for
their continued efforts during 2006 in
strengthening the Group's position as a
profitable, cash generative business.
This is a very exciting time for AMS.
Dr Geoffrey N Vernon
Chairman
12 March 2007
13552ADVANCE:Layout 1  20/4/07  12:28  Page 4 13552 19/04/2007 Proof 4
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
05
SURGICAL SKIN SEALANT LAUNCHED 
NHS
New
territories
Surgical
skin sealant
Silver
alginate
//// Advanced Woundcare
//// Wound Closure and Sealants
The Group has identified four key
drivers of organic growth over the next
few years. Each of these offers strong
growth opportunities for the existing
product portfolio.
2007-8
GROWTH STRATEGY
KEY DRIVERS OF ORGANIC GROWTH
13552ADVANCE:Layout 1  20/4/07  12:28  Page 5