 In last year's Annual Report, I reported to you
on the traumatic events of 2002. Over the past
twelve months we have made considerable
progress in agreeing the shape of the proposed
restructuring and the new British Energy with
the Government and our creditors (the
Proposed Restructuring), details of which can
be found on page 25. In October, we reached
agreement with our major creditors on the
restructuring plan. The way forward is subject
to a large number of significant uncertainties
and important conditions including approval by
the European Commission (the Commission),
Court sanction and settling certain documents
with creditors. We must also establish our
viability to the satisfaction of the Secretary of
State for Trade and Industry. It is intended that
the Proposed Restructuring be implemented in
the current financial year but there is a great
deal to do in order to achieve this, and the size
of the task should not be underestimated.
Total output for the year was 72.6 TWh.
Nuclear output was 65.0 TWh, up from last
year but less than the target we set for
ourselves. The improved generation output
helped lead to an operating profit of  57m
which together with exceptional operating
credits of  283m, resulted in a total Group
operating profit for continuing activities of
 340m compared to a  3,899m loss last
year. It is the intention of the Company to pay
dividends when the requirements of the
business permit, subject to the distributable
reserves position and restrictions under the
restructuring arrangements. No dividend is
expected in respect of the two financial years
ending March 2005 and March 2006, as the
Board believes that investing in the business
is a prerequisite for a successful turnaround.
Restructuring
Since I reported to you last on the principles
of our Proposed Restructuring we have
reached formal agreement with our major
creditors and the Government on the
Proposed Restructuring plan and in October
we exchanged a Creditor Restructuring
Agreement and a Government Restructuring
Agreement documenting these proposals.
The key features of these agreements are:
  Certain creditors have agreed to
extinguish their unsecured claims against
the Group in exchange for  275m of new
bonds and at least 97.5% of the issued
ordinary shares of the restructured Group.
  The Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF) will
assume financial responsibility for
discharging certain of the Group's
uncontracted nuclear liabilities and costs
of decommissioning the Group's nuclear
power stations, and the Government will
assume financial responsibility for certain
of the Group's contracted nuclear
liabilities and any shortfall in the NLF.
  In consideration for this assumption of
financial responsibility, the Group will
issue  275m in new bonds to the NLF
and will also make further payments to
the NLF.
  These payments to the NLF will include a
proportion, initially (and not to exceed)
65%, of the Group's adjusted cash flow,
which the NLF will be entitled to convert
into a proportional equity shareholding in
the Group. 
  The Eggborough Bank Syndicate have
agreed to replace their existing secured
claims with a right to payments having a
payment profile equivalent to  150m of
new bonds. In addition, they will have an
option to acquire the Eggborough station
in 2010 upon payment of a  104m break
fee and the extinguishing of outstanding
bond equivalent payments.
  British Energy's existing shareholders will,
if the Members' Scheme is implemented,
receive new ordinary shares equal to
2.5% of the share capital of the Group
immediately following implementation of
the Proposed Restructuring as well as
warrants to subscribe  28.95m for
shares representing a further 5.0% of the
Group's thereby diluted issued share
capital immediately following implementation
of the Proposed Restructuring.
  The standstill arrangements agreed on 14
February 2003 have been extended and will
continue while the Proposed Restructuring
is being implemented (subject to certain
termination events not occurring).
The restructuring plan has yet to be agreed by
the Commission. Due to the need for the
Company and the DTI to complete final
assessments in relation to the financing of the
Group, it will not be possible for the Secretary
of State to present all the necessary
information to the Commission to enable the
Commission to take a decision before its
summer break. The DTI now expects the
Commission to take a decision this autumn.
Thereafter we are required under our
agreements with creditors and the Government
to complete the restructuring by 31 January
2005 at the latest.
A condition of the restructuring principles we
agreed in November 2002 was the disposal
of our North American businesses. In
February 2003, we sold our interest in Bruce
Power. In December 2003, following a
competitive sale process, British Energy sold
its 50% interest in AmerGen to its joint
venture partner, Exelon. The proceeds of
US$277m from the sale of our interest in
AmerGen were applied in repaying all sums
owing under the Government Facility. The
remaining proceeds were used to fund
ongoing collateral requirements. At the year
end, the Company had a cash and liquid
funds balance of  573m of which  297m
was deposited in support of collateral
requirements.
If the restructuring is implemented, the
return, if any, to existing shareholders will
represent a very significant dilution of their
existing interests. However, the Board
continues to believe that the Proposed
Restructuring is in the best interests of the
Company, and is working hard to ensure that
all the necessary conditions are met. It must
Chairman's Statement
2British Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004
In the past 12 months we have made
considerable progress towards restructuring,
with significant milestones being achieved. Board Changes
We have also strengthened the Board. The
Non-Executive appointments in 2003 of
William Coley, Pascal Colombani and Sir Robert
Walmsley have greatly enhanced the Board's
nuclear expertise while John Delucca, who
joined us in February this year, brings us
experience of finance and restructuring which is
immensely valuable.
Having helped to secure creditor approval to
the restructuring plan in October, Keith Lough
stepped down as Finance Director and Martin
Gatto was appointed as Interim Finance
Director. Following the disposal of all our North
American interests, Duncan Hawthorne
stepped down from the Board in March. I would
like to extend my thanks to both Keith and
Duncan for their contributions to British Energy.
As well as bringing relevant expertise to the
direction of our business, our new Board
appointments considerably enhance the level
of independent scrutiny of management's
activities and will assist British Energy to meet
the more stringent requirements expected
under corporate governance developments. In
the course of the year we have increased the
comprehensiveness and frequency of our
financial reporting.
I am also pleased to announce the appointment
from 4 May 2004 of Neil O'Hara as Trading
Director, and from 5 July 2004 of Roy Anderson
as Chief Nuclear Officer.
Finally, the Board is very grateful to all our
staff for their dedication during a difficult
time. I would like to record my personal
thanks for their continued professionalism
and commitment to generating safe, reliable
electricity for the UK.
Adrian Montague, CBE
Chairman
be recognised that the restructuring remains
subject to a large number of significant
uncertainties and important conditions and,
that if, for any reason, the restructuring
cannot proceed, the Board may have to seek
the protection of insolvency proceedings. In
this case the distribution to unsecured
creditors may represent only a small fraction
of their unsecured liabilities and it is highly
unlikely that there will be any return to
shareholders.
The Creditor Restructuring Agreement
requires that, absent shareholder approval,
the agreed restructuring will be completed by
delisting the Company's shares from the
Official List thus avoiding the requirement for
shareholder approval under the existing
Listing Rules. The UKLA has published a
consultation paper proposing that a rule
change should be made which would require
shareholder consent for delisting. Even if the
Proposed Restructuring is not approved by
shareholders the Company does not believe
that the timescale for this proposed rule
change will prevent implementation of the
agreed restructuring. 
The Proposed Restructuring is only part of the
story; the sale of our interest in AmerGen saw
British Energy return to being solely a UK
business, and much work has been undertaken
to restructure our generation and trading 
businesses, including the planned relocation of 
our headquarters in Scotland and sale of 
the current premises at Peel Park. In his review,
Mike Alexander outlines the significant steps
taken over the year to put in place the
foundations for improved performance and
reliability from our stations and to change the
culture in British Energy.
Industry Development 
Over the past year, some commentators have
voiced concerns over the availability of
sufficient generation capacity to meet
demand. This brought the need for
investment in UK power generation into
sharper focus. Much of the current debate
has centred on whether future dependency
on gas should be balanced by renewables or
the replacement of existing nuclear
generation. We regard a balanced portfolio 
of energy sources and addressing long-term
decisions on the need for new power stations
as fundamental to the future security of
energy supply for the United Kingdom.
Increases in wholesale prices for electricity
during the year  have started to improve the
climate for investment in generation assets.
The forthcoming Emissions Trading Scheme
and other environmental legislation will aim
to restrict the emission of greenhouse gases
by generators. There is, however, some way
to go before the UK has a stable market
creating sufficient confidence for longer term
investments. At the same time, progress
needs to be made on the Government's
initiative through the Committee on
Radioactive Waste Management to develop a
UK approach to nuclear waste disposal - this
is essential to the future of nuclear power.
Safety
Safety as always remains our first priority and
we recognise its importance to the continuing
public confidence in our operations. Public
confidence in our operations is in turn
dependent upon our safety record. Our
performance in the course of the year shows
scope for further improvement, and we are
working with the World Association of Nuclear
Operators (WANO) to apply best practice from
elsewhere in the world, especially the USA.
We are appreciative of the support we have
received from WANO and the international
nuclear community in the last year. Our
operational structure has already been revised
to learn from this. As well as the reliability of
our operations, our Performance Improvement
Programme is intended to enhance both our
safety performance and culture. 
Adrian Montague Chairman
3British Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004