 10
Overview
Chairman's Statement - The Group perf ormed w ell  
in 20 1 2 with results ahead of the good perf ormance in 20 1 1 .
 23.2m
Borrowings reduced by almost  8 million  
to  23.2 million (2011:  31.0 million).
 22.5m
Operating profit increased by 4%  
to  22.5 million (2011:  21.6 million).
Introduction
The Group performed well in 2012, with results 
ahead of market expectations and ahead of the 
good performance in 201 1.
This was achieved in a challenging economic 
environment with periods of reduced demand from 
certain sectors and with volatile raw material pricing.
Cash generation remained strong during the  
year resulting in a further marked reduction  
in Group borrowings.
The Board is recommending an increased final 
dividend and considers that the Group is well 
positioned to deal with a further challenging  
year in 2013.
Results
Total volumes for the year were 262,400 tonnes 
(201 1: 273,200 tonnes), most of that reduction 
coming in the first half, with second half volumes 
showing only a slight decline, mainly attributable  
to continuing reduction in product thickness 
through use of higher performance raw materials.
On sales of  479 million (201 1:  508 million), 
operating profit increased to  22.5 million  
(201 1:  21.6 million). This increase can be attributed 
to an improvement in performance by our  
UK business, which still has some way to go to 
match the consistently good returns from our 
European operations.
There were no net gains from restructuring  
in 2012 (201 1:  0.6 million).
The reduction in average borrowings during  
the period resulted in reduced interest costs  
of  2.1 million (201 1:  2.5 million).
The calculated charge for net retirement  
benefit financing increased to  1.0 million  
(201 1:  0.5 million), and a fuller explanation on  
the impact of forthcoming rules on accounting  
for these costs is contained in the Financial  
Review on pages 32 to 37 .
Cameron McLatchie, Chairman

 On sales of  4 79 million, operating profit 
increased to  22.5 million. This increase  
can be attributed to an improvement in 
performance by our UK business. 
  British Polythene Industries PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012                         11
Report by Directors and Business Review Report by Directors and Business Review

 Cash generation 
remained strong during 
the year resulting in a 
further marked reduction 
in Group borrowings. 
 
Before net restructuring gains and net  
retirement benefit financing, the adjusted profit 
before tax rose by some 7% to  20.4 million  
(201 1:  19.1 million). On a similar basis, but before 
adjustments for prior years' tax items, adjusted 
diluted earnings per share is 53.35p (201 1: 49.88p).
Dividend
After an increase in the interim dividend to 4.2p per 
share (201 1: 4.0p), the Board is recommending an 
increase in the final dividend to 9.0p (201 1: 8.5p), 
making a total for the year of 13.2p per share  
(201 1: 12.5p).
The dividend is payable on 18 July to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on  
15 March 2013. 
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group again generated cash from its operations 
and, year-on-year, borrowings reduced by almost 
 8 million to  23.2 million (201 1:  31.0 million). 
This was achieved despite an increase of  6 million 
in year-end inventories and an increase of  6 million 
in net capital expenditure during the period.
The medium term outlook for raw material prices 
seems to indicate that we will not experience the 
dramatic increase in price that we have seen over 
the last decade, and this bodes well for working 
capital requirements for the next few years.  
We do, however, have plans to increase our capital 
expenditure programme over the next few years  
to invest in a number of opportunities. We expect 
that expenditure for 2013 will exceed  20 million 
(2012:  17 .5 million), and envisage that this higher 
level will continue in the following two years.
Despite this planned increase in capital expenditure, 
the Board continues to expect the Group to generate 
cash from its operations, and has concluded that  
a reduction in our banking facilities was appropriate. 
We have therefore cancelled some  20 million of 
the facilities previously arranged. This will reduce 
non-utilisation fees paid to the banks in 2013,  
and still gives the Group considerable headroom. 
Our current facilities now total  75 million and  
 40 million of these facilities are due for 
renegotiation in 2015. 
Group Pension Scheme
The IAS 19 deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme increased from  60 million at 31 December 
201 1 to  63 million at 31 December 2012.
This was due to a further reduction in the net 
discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme. 
The returns from the scheme assets did significantly 
exceed the level previously assumed, however this 
was not sufficient to counter the impact of the 
reduced net discount rate.
For the year ending 31 December 2013 the Group  
is required to adopt IAS 19 (revised). This change 
will increase the net retirement benefit financing 
charge but will have no impact on cash or 
shareholders funds. A fuller explanation of this  
is given in the Financial Review on page 32.
UK Corporate Governance Code
I can confirm that we do have an effective Board 
which is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company. 
I regard the current Board as extremely competent, 
that it has the necessary breadth of skills to fulfil its 
tasks, and that the Board is supplied with sufficient 
and timely information upon which to make the 
necessary deliberations and judgements.
The Board is challenging of executive proposals, 
and the Committees of the Board do fulfil the 
independent functions that are required of them. 
In line with current recommendations, all Directors 
seek re-election at each Annual General Meeting  
of the Company. 
Group Development
Last year I was able to comment very positively on 
the performance of our European business, and this 
success has been repeated in 2012. We have made 
further capital investments at all three European 
sites in 2012 and 2013, and have committed to  
an additional multi-layer stretch-film line for Zele  
in 2014. Over that three year period, these 
investments will have significantly increased our 
manufacturing capacity in Europe, enabling us  
to offer our customers excellent quality and service 
together with an enhanced product range.
Overview 12
Overview
In the UK, we have made considerable progress  
in many areas, but have been hindered by poor 
demand from the construction sector and delays  
in commissioning of a new washing plant for 
contaminated waste films. The net result was an 
increase in UK profits by over  1 million, a welcome 
improvement. New co-extrusion capacity was 
added to our Films operations and more has been 
ordered for 2013. Replacement heavy-duty sack 
co-extrusion capacity has been ordered for our 
Ardeer site and will be commissioned this summer. 
Up-rated refuse sack capacity is currently being 
installed at Heanor. These investments should 
reverse the decline in tonnage that we have seen in 
the UK over the last few years and improve output, 
quality and service levels before the end of 2013. 
We indicated last year that we were evaluating 
options for our agricultural film operation in 
Canada and have decided to replace our largest 
3-layer co-extrusion line with a new 7-layer line 
capable of making a range of products currently 
not offered by the Group. This line will be 
commissioned early in 2014 and financial benefits 
are unlikely to accrue before 2015.
Our Consumer Packaging operations have 
produced better returns in 2012, aided by an 
improved performance from China. We are 
currently evaluating further investment in our 
Chinese operation, as demand has increased from 
world export markets, particularly New Zealand 
and Australia.
All of the above investments will result in  
higher levels of capital expenditure over the  
next few years than we have seen over the last  
few. However, it is clear to us that the opportunities  
are there to make attractive returns and most  
of this spend targets the agricultural and retail  
food sectors. 
Raw Material
2012 was a further volatile year for polymer prices. 
We saw April as the peak of the cycle, but the 
erosion in price of the following few months was 
halted by increases in August and September, since 
when prices moved sideways until January and 
February this year when producers have imposed 
increases in both months. Prices have not yet 
returned to the April levels, but, if they do, we may 
well see a re-run of last year, as new supply and 
weak demand combine to push down prices.
A new significant factor in global polymer supply  
is the current investment in North America in shale 
gas extraction. This will result in large quantities of 
lower cost feedstock for polymer producers in that 
area, and once again make North America a major 
exporter of polymer to world markets. These 
investments are current, and should start to impact 
the global market within a few years. Combined 
with new capacity from the Middle and Far East, 
the medium term outlook for polymer pricing looks 
favourable on a global basis. However, Western 
Europe is still very dependent on the traditional  
oil and naptha route for feedstock, resulting in 
high-cost ethylene and polyethylene polymer. 
We are very aware of the challenges and 
opportunities that this price volatility brings,  
and also the potential impact of global changes  
in supply. In recent years we have been able  
to cope well with these issues and expect to 
continue so to do.

 Current capital 
investment is targeting 
resilient and sustainable 
markets. W e are confident 
that the prospects for 
growth in 2014 and 
beyond are now clear . 
 
Chairman's Statement  
( continued) British Polythene Industries PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012                         13
Report by Directors and Business Review Report by Directors and Business Review
Prospects and Current Trading
Much work has been done by management  
over the last few years to implement the difficult 
decisions taken to bring our UK manufacturing 
capacity more into line with demand from our 
customers. The results in the UK are now starting  
to reflect these efforts, and we are seeing an 
improving trend in the returns from our UK 
business. We expect to see this continue in 2013 
and beyond, as new capital investment begins  
to bear fruit.
Demand for agricultural film looks promising and, 
with the caveat of weather, we are anticipating 
another successful year with our enhanced  
product range. 
We indicated last year that your Board anticipated  
a satisfactory year in 2012. The prospects for  
2013 look equally good, particularly for further 
improvement in our UK business.
Current capital investment is targeting resilient  
and sustainable markets. We are confident that  
the prospects for growth in 2014 and beyond are 
now clear. 
 
Cameron McLatchie 
Chairman
1 March 2013
Overview