 2 Brulines Group plc
The	 past	 year	 has	 been	 a	 mixed	 one	 for	 the	 Group.	
Whilst	 the	 trading	 background	 within	 the	 Leisure	
division	 have	 remained	 diffi 	cult,	 with	 pub	 sell-offs	
and	 delayed	 commitment	 to	 new	 activity	 from	 our	
core	 leisure	 customers,	 the	 acquisitions	 during	 the	
year	 have	 transformed	 our	 fl 	edgling	 Fuel	 Solutions	
division	into	a	leading	player	in	the	market	and	have	
also	secured	and	enhanced	our	technology	platform	
and	capability.
Results
On	 4	 March	 2011,	 we	 issued	 a	 trading	 update	
stating	that	the	operating	profi 	ts	for	the	year	(before	
amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets,	 share	 based	
payments	 and	 exceptional	 costs)	 would	 be	 around	
 4.0	million.	The	actual	operating	profi 	ts	for	the	year	
ended	31	March	2011	amounted	to	 3.96	million.
Turnover	for	the	year	was	 24.28	million,	an	increase	
of	22.4%	ahead	of	the	 19.83	million	recorded	in	2010,	
due	to	the	contributions	from	the	acquisitions	in	the	
Fuel	Solutions	division,	where	turnover	increased	from	
 0.50	million	to	 6.12	million.	Turnover	in	the	Leisure	
division	 decreased	 from	  19.33	 million	 to	  18.16	
million,	 largely	 due	 to	 our	 pub	 company	 customers	
reducing	 their	 estates	 and	 delaying	 projects	 for	 a	
number	of	reasons,	including	waiting	for	the	positive	
results	from	Brulines'	NMO	testing.
The	 fall	 in	 the	 number	 of	 new	 installations	 of	 beer	
monitoring	 systems	 was	 a	 signifi 	cant	 factor	 in	 the	
decrease	in	Leisure	Division	turnover.
The	 level	 of	 contractual	 and	 recurring	 revenues	
remains	 high	 at	 just	 over	 70%	 of	 Group	 turnover,	
although	 this	 has	 decreased	 from	 the	 equivalent	
fi 	gure	for	2010	of	84%	due	to	the	current	lower	level	
of	contracted	business	in	the	Fuel	Solutions	division.	
The	 Group's	 gross	 margins	 decreased	 to	 54%	 from	
59%	 in	 2010,	 impacted	 by	 lower	 margins	 in	 the	
acquired	 businesses:	 the	 Leisure	 division	 gross	
margin	 remained	 broadly	 level	 with	 last	 year	 at	
58%,	and	Fuel	Solutions	is	currently	42%	with	good	
prospects	for	increase.
Administrative	 overheads	 increased	 by	  2.03	 million	
to	 9.10	million,	largely	arising	from	the	acquisitions	
made	 within	 the	 Fuel	 Solutions	 division.	 Action	 has	
been	 taken	 to	 reduce	 costs	 in	 the	 Leisure	 division,	
and	 the	 integration	 of	 the	 acquisitions	 is	 yielding	
anticipated	synergies,	with	the	benefi 	t	of	these	coming	
through	in	the	current	fi 	nancial	year.	Exceptional	and	
amortisation	costs	were	similar	to	2010	at	 0.90	million	
(2010:	 0.96	million)	and	are	outlined	in	the	Financial	
Review.	Group	profi 	t	before	taxation	amounted	to	 3.03	
million,	compared	to	 4.03	million	in	2010.
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 pre-exceptional	 costs	
decreased	to	9.06	pence	from	12.68	pence	in	2010.
Dividend
At	 the	 time	 of	 the	 trading	 update	 on	 4	 March	 2011,	
the	 Board	 anticipated	 that	 it	 would	 maintain	 the	
progressive	dividend	policy	and,	in	line	with	this,	it	is	
recommending	the	payment	of	a	fi 	nal	dividend	of	3.98	
pence	per	share	in	respect	of	the	year	ended	31	March	
2011.	
Together	with	the	interim	dividend	of	1.67	pence	per	
share	paid	in	January	2011,	this	makes	a	total	dividend	
of	5.65	pence	per	share,	an	increase	of	2.7%	over	the	
5.5	pence	per	share	paid	in	respect	of	the	year	ended	
31	March	2010.
Subject	to	the	approval	of	shareholders	at	the	Annual	
General	Meeting	to	be	held	on	12	July	2011,	the	fi 	nal	
dividend	will	be	paid	on	28	July	2011	to	shareholders	
on	the	register	as	at	17	June	2011.
ChAIRmAN's sTATemeNT Brulines Group plc 3
Acquisitions
During	 the	 last	 financial	 year,	 the	 Fuel	 Solutions	
division	 has	 been	 transformed	 by	 three	 acquisitions	
as	follows:
 	 In	 April	 2010,	 the	 Group	 acquired	 Energy	 Level	
Systems	 Limited	 (ELS )	 for	 an	 initial	 cash	
consideration	 of	  0.7	 million,	 together	 with	
potential	 further	 deferred	 consideration	 of	 a	
maximum	 of	  1.35	 million	 dependent	 on	 the	
earnings	before	interest	and	 tax	of	ELS	 for	the	
two	 years	 ending	 31	 March	 2012.	 ELS	 provide	
fuel	 management	 systems,	 tank	 gauging	 and	
lining	 solutions	 and	 liquefied	 petroleum	 gas	
system	support,	and	other	forecourt	services.
 	 In	 June	2010,	the	Group	acquired	Retail	 &	
Forecourt	 Solutions	 Limited	 (RFS )	 for	 an	 initial	
cash	 consideration	 of	  1.2	 million	 together	 with	
an	 earn-out	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 year	 ending	 31	
July	 2011.	 RFS	 is	 the	 UK	 market	 leader	 in	 fuel	
dispense	 calibration	 and	 verification,	 as	 well	 as	
compliance	 services.
 	 In	July	2010,	the	Group	completed	the	acquisition	
of	LBI	Installations	Limited	(LBI )	 for	an	initial	
cash	consideration	of	 0.36	million,	together	with	
potential	 further	 performance	 related	 deferred	
consideration.	LBI	operates	web-based	contract	
management	 solutions,	 as	 well	 as	 engineering	
and	project	management	solutions,	 for	forecourt	
operations.
Following	 these	 acquisitions,	 the	 Fuel	 Solutions	
division	 now	has	a	fully	integrated,	one	 stop	service	
solution	 and	 information	 t oolbox	for	 forecourt	
operators.	This	commercial	proposition	was	formally	
launched	 to	 the	 marketplace	 in	 February	 2011	 at	
the	 Forecourt	 Show	 and	 initial	 reaction	 from	 major	
supermarkets	 and	 leading	 forecourt	 operators	 has	
been	 extremely	 encouraging.	 The	 Board	 believes	
that	 the	 Fuel	 Solutions	 division	 is	 now	 in	 a	 position	
to	 replicate,	 in	 the	 forecourt	 market,	 the	 success	
enjoyed	by	the	Leisure	division.
In	 December	 2010,	 the	 Group	 announced	 the	
acquisition	 of	 the	 machine-to-machine	 business	 of	
Amscreen	 Limited	 for	 an	 initial	 cash	 consideration	
of	 2.0	million,	together	with	the	potential	 for	further	
deferred	 consideration,	 dependent	 on	 the	 business	
achieving	 certain	 milestones.	 This	 business,	 which	
now	 operates	 within	 the	 Group	 as	 ViaTelemetry,	 is	
involved	 in	 delivering	 patented	 next-generation	 data	
collection	 and	 monitoring	 platforms	 and	 had	 been	
providing	the	Group	with	products	and	services	 for	 two	
years.	This	acquisition	enables	the	Group	 to	underpin	
its	 leading	 edge	 technology	 and	 also	 provides	 a	
dedicated	 technology	 business,	 not	 only	 to	 develop	
further	its	products	and	services,	but	also	 to	provide	
expansion	opportunities	through	its	telemetry	product	
lines	and	customers.
All	of	these	acquisitions	have	been	financed	from	the	
Group's	own 	cash	and	overdraft	resources.
Board and senior management
I	would	like	 to	thank	all	of	my	Board	colleagues,	senior	
management	and	 staff	 for	their	continued	efforts	and	
commitment	on	behalf	of	the	Group	in	these	difficult	
economic	conditions	and	in	the	transformation	of	the	
Group	over 	the	past	year.	
proposed change of Group name
Your	 Board	 is	 proposing	 to	 change	 the	 name	 of	 the	
Group	from	Brulines	Group	plc 	to 	Vianet	plc.
The	 Group	 has	 evolved	 significantly	 from	 when	 it	
was	floated	on	the	Alternative	Investment	Market	in	
October	2006,	when	the	activities	of	Brulines	Limited	
represented	 virtually	 all	 of	 the	 Group's	 business.	
Whilst	 Brulines	 Limited	 is	 still	 the	 largest	 company	
within	the	Group,	the	name	Brulines 	is	very	much	
associated	with	the	beer	dispense	products	and	has	
little	relevance	to 	other	parts	of	the	Group.
Your	 Board	 believes	 that	 the	 name	 Vianet 	 more	
accurately	 describes	 the	 fundamental	 business	 of	
the	Group,	which	is	the	delivery	of	solutions	(be	they	
leisure,	 fuel	 or	 vending	 related)	 primarily	 by	 way	 of	
networks	 and	 web-based	 reporting.	 Your	 Directors	
currently	 intend	 to	 rename	 the	 Group	 as	 Vianet	 plc	
when	the	name	becomes	available	or,	if	not,	 to	select	
another	name	that	is	more	reflective	of	the	strategic	
direction	 and	 capability	 of	 the	 Group	 as	 a	 whole.	
Consequently	 a	 resolution	 to	 grant	 the	 Directors	
the	 power	 to	change	the	name	of	the	Gr oup	is	being	
proposed	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	 to	be	held	on	
12	July	2011.
outlook
The	 Group's	 strategic	 intent	 remains	 to	 extend	 its	
data	management	and	support	services	presence	in	
each	of	the	leisure,	vending	and	fuel	forecourt	sectors	
where	there	is	considerable	technical	and	operational	
overlap.
Within	the	Leisure	division,	the	relaunch	of	iDraught 	
has	 been	 received	 very	 positively	 by	 customers	
and	 increased	 penetration	 is	 being	 achieved	 within	
the	 on-premise	 draught	 beer	 market.	 Vianet,	 the	
Group's	 Vending	 Solutions	 business	 is	 making	
excellent	 progress	 in	 developing	 significant	 new	
sales	 opportunities,	 including	 trials	 of	 its	 cashless	
and	 contactless	 solutions	 with	 major	 international	
companies.	
Despite	the	difficult	economic	backdrop,	your	Board	
believes	 that	 there	 are	 significant	 opportunities	 for	
all	 its	 services	 and	 that	 the	 current	 financial	 year	
will	benefit	from	both	a	full	year's	contribution	from	
the	 recently	 acquired	 businesses	 as	 well	 as	 from	 a	
number	of	exciting	new 	business	opportunities.	
James H Newman 
Chairman 
7 June 2011