 1Spatial plc
4
Chairman's Statement
1Spatial is a software and solutions provider to national mapping and charting agencies, utilities companies and
defence and government departments globally. Our technologies allow customers to make key business decisions by
capturing, managing, processing and analysing spatial data - in a way that traditional technologies do not allow. With
over 40 years of continual innovation and development, our products make the huge data they manage scalable,
flexible and highly accurate.
The common focus for all companies within the Group going forward is to provide end users of data with both
assurance over its quality and insight into its significance. This is part of the  Big Data' concept. Big Data is a term
applied to data sets whose size is beyond the ability of commonly used software tools to capture, manage, and
process. Big data has increased the demand for information management specialists and software firms specialising
only in data management and analytics; this industry is valued at several billion dollars globally and continues to grow
significantly each year.
The year ended 31 January 2013 has been a year of achieving focus and clarity around the strategic direction of the
business. This was further supported post year-end by a share placing raising approximately  17m (after expenses)
to support the Group's future strategy and growth plans including potential acquisitions, geographic expansion,
product development and potential future acquisitions. In particular, it has enabled the group to acquire 90% of Star-
Apic for  5.2m (excluding direct costs of acquisition) a leading European provider of Geographic Information Systems
(GIS ) software and solutions, specialising in land and infrastructure management. The Directors believe that Star-
Apic is an important and highly complementary bolt-on acquisition, significantly enhancing 1Spatial's capability in the
rapidly growing spatial Big Data market, and leveraging the opportunity for 1Spatial Products into the Star-Apic
customer base.
In addition, post year-end, David Richards, CEO of WANdisco plc, joined the Board as Deputy Non-Executive
Chairman, bringing over 15 years' experience in the Software industry to the Group. David's knowledge of the US
market which is identified as a key market for growth for the 1Spatial business, is of particular importance. I welcome
him to the Board during this exciting period of growth for 1Spatial. I reported in my half year statement that the
company made excellent progress during the period, particularly with respect to the 1Spatial division. This success
continued in the second half of the year, namely with the award of two strategically important contracts for US
Census and Ordnance Survey Ireland (OSi). These contracts demonstrate the pedigree of the spatial Big Data
product suite we offer, allowing these organisations to capture, process and query huge amounts of spatial data,
which must be highly accurately in near real-time.
For OSi, 1Spatial will provide an  end to end' National Mapping Solution. OSi will be 1Spatial's flagship first customer
for the new 1Spatial Management Suite (1SMS) which will be launched in August 2013.
We are very excited about our next generation products in the 1SMS. Our continued investment in development has
enabled us to bring to the market products that provide an innovative approach to the way organisations manage,
process and analyse spatial data, and we believe it's a step change from what traditional technologies currently allow.
In May we launched 1Edit, a revolutionary, touch screen compatible solution for fast and intuitive data-editing in the
field or office, and we have received significant interest in 1Edit from both customers and prospects alike.
Our contract with the US Census further strengthens the long standing engagement we have with Census to provide
automated process to bring together geospatial data from various sources. With the large, complex, mission critical
and growing spatial data that Census holds we are regarded as a strategic partner to help them progress towards
2015 for the decennial census, at which time the US Census will be updated continuously in near real-time.
The company's long term growth strategy is based on exploiting the opportunities in its scalable intellectual property
offerings from both the 1Spatial business and the Star-Apic business. The Directors believe that the acquisition of
Star-Apic will provide:
  a utilities solution that can be sold into existing customers and markets as well as into new
customers and markets;
  access to new markets, such as France and North Africa;
  additional services and products to the Group's existing customer base. The Elyx software platform
is built on the same core technology as 1Spatial's technology and can be integrated into the
1Spatial Management Suite easily and efficiently;
  a map publishing tool (Mercator) to produce digital and paper maps which can be added onto
1SMS;
  additional resource to develop new products aligned to customer needs; and
  opportunities for the 1Spatial product offerings across the Star-Apic customerbase.
And lastly, I would like to thank the management team and all of our employees for their hard work and dedication.
This has enabled us to navigate a challenging environment and strongly position 1Spatial for the future.
Financial position 1Spatial plc
5
Group revenue for the year was  12.1m up from  5.2m in 2012 due to the 12 month contribution from the 1Spatial
Business that was acquired in November 2011. On a like-for-like basis, revenue growth was down on the prior year
by  0.8m mainly as a result of reduced revenues in the Avisen business. In 2012 Avisen made a one-off licence sale
in excess of  1.5m that was not repeated in 2013.
All trading businesses, namely 1Spatial, Avisen and Storage Fusion made positive adjusted EBITDA contributions to
the Group. Overall, the Group has recorded an adjusted EBITDA loss of  0.5m, substantially due to head office
costs of  2.0m. Over time, management has implemented plans to scale the operations in order absorb the fixed
overhead costs associated with being a listed entity. With the acquisition of Star-Apic and good prospects for the
other businesses, covering these costs will be achievable.
The overall net loss for the year is  4.4m. The main reason for the loss is due to the impairment of the Avisen and
Storage Fusion goodwill and intangible assets of  2.6m as well as  0.9m of amortisation of intangible assets and
other exceptional items. Whilst the Directors remain optimistic with respect to the long term prospects of the Avisen
and Storage Fusion businesses, there remains challenges in the short term based on the current pipeline of
opportunities.
We have a strong balance sheet post year end following the placing. After the acquisition of Star-Apic, the cash and
cash equivalents balance as at 25 June is  14m.
Strategy and reorganisation
In the last annual report, our long term stated strategy was to continue to grow organically and acquisitively, and to
convert this growth into higher profit and improved cash flow for distribution to our shareholders; we have made
significant progress in this respect during the year and post year-end. The cash received from the placing and the
acquisition of Star-Apic puts the Group in a good position for long term growth and scalability. The Company is now
under one common branding of 1Spatial, but with three trading subsidiaries, 1Spatial Business, Avisen UK and
Storage Fusion.
1Spatial Division
The 1Spatial division has a strong customer base, working with some of the world's largest National Mapping
Agencies (NMAs). These relationships have been built over many years.
1Spatial's strategy is to achieve growth in our current marketplace, leverage our brand and scale the business into
new geographical markets. Key to this success will be a major focus on partnerships, so that we can leverage our
technology offerings and provide more options for our customers. Two successes during the period that are
testament to our strategy are the contract wins with the Irish Mapping agency (OSi) and US Census.
Building on the current strong customer base, the growth strategy for the business will be to continue to focus on the
NMA market along with key vertical sectors such as utilities, which is where the Star-Apic acquisition will be a key
addition.
Avisen UK
Avisen continues to provide profitability improvement services to its clients, which include Tesco and Unilever.
Storage Fusion
Storage Fusion continues to develop, adding clients and partners to its unique storage resource analytical software
and providing insight into these organisations' complex infrastructures. With its Cloud enabled offering it provides a
cost effective way to measure data storage usage and consumption, and with the huge growth forecast in the SAAS
marketplace the Storage Fusion product is very attractive.
Conclusion and outlook
1Spatial is entering an exciting growth phase following a successful Placing to raise funds for a highly complementary
acquisition as well as the future strategic development and expansion of the business.
It is the Board's view that the Company is well placed to capitalise on opportunities in the spatial Big Data market with
a strong team in place and an exceptional product offering. The company has an impressive and growing customer
base and a healthy pipeline of opportunities including National Mapping Agencies and blue-chip companies.
The addition of Star-Apic gives increased scale to the business as well as future growth opportunities with
management will be working over the next six months to integrate the two businesses.
The Board is encouraged by the progress made during the start of the current financial year and looks forward to the
future with confidence.  1Spatial plc
6
S Berry
Chairman
1 July 2013