 Byotrol plc 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 3  
 
I am pleased with the transformation that has come about at your Company over the past year. For the sake of 
balance, I should point out that I was appointed Chairman exactly a day after the end of the period under review 
here, so I cannot claim the credit myself. It should go instead to Ralph Kugler, our outgoing Chairman of five 
years, who very calmly and efficiently oversaw a number of key developments including a share placing, the full 
integration with Byotrol Consumer Products (BCP), a loan note issue and a streamlining of the combined 
business.   Ralph finished the year by stepping down and handing me the reins of a Company that is positioned to 
prosper.   
 
The transformation has been extensive. We have cut costs, the effect of which is already being felt to our benefit. 
But more than this, we have rationalised two businesses into one coherent, focused and motivated entity. The 
benefit of this is only just starting to be felt but we have every expectation that the pace will increase. 
 
The Past 
 
My association with Byotrol goes back to 2007 when I first met Stephen Falder, Byotrol's founder and inventor, 
and I have been captivated by the story ever since. From the very beginning, it seemed to me that there was a 
magnitude of ways that the product could be commercialised. Not only did the product have a great technical lead 
and multiple applications, but the routes to market were varied too, with direct sales, partners selling the product 
on our behalf and licensing the technology for use within other companies' products.  
 
To date much of the focus has been on the health and food industries. Both of these sectors are categorised by a 
high need for efficient control of pathogens. Unfortunately for us, both sectors are also categorised by slow, 
deliberate decision making and a real reluctance to accept a step change. This is not a good backdrop for the 
commercialisation of technical innovation, and with hindsight, we could not have chosen two more difficult 
industries into which to introduce a revolutionary technology. The incentive to change to a new technology is just 
not there for many managers, and even when there is a real and present danger, for example MRSA, a cost 
effective, safe and effective solution just does not get adopted very quickly if it is new .   
 
The Present 
 
We have made decent inroads into the food industry, and continue to look at the health industry, but our focus 
here is to find specialist partners to sell our products on our behalf.  
 
An unforeseen area of commercialisation over the past few years has been our Pet & Vet Division. This has 
become a little gem in our midst: a profit contributor; a great advertisement for our products in several countries; 
and a springboard for future expansion. We now have a loyal following of pet owners who appreciate the benefits 
of Byotrol in their homes, and as a dog owner myself, I can attest that my carpets have benefitted from the use of 
our products all too frequently. 
 
We will continue to build on our legacy  business areas of Food, Health, Industrial and Pet. The current 
contribution from these businesses, together with the contribution from our newly constituted Consumer Division, 
has brought us close to the point of monthly break-even. Each Division provides a platform for growth, and the 
diversity of our customers provides a degree of financial security. However, a prime focus for the medium term 
must be on consumer markets and it was with this in mind that we sought the acquisition of the remaining non-
controlling stake in BCP in 2013.  
 
The Future 
 
I would urge you to pay particular attention to the CEO's statement within this Annual Report with respect to our 
future goals. As we re-set our compass it is important that our shareholders, both present and future, can 
accurately assess our goals and our direction, which has a noticeably different focus from the past.   
 
Consumer Focus 
 
Our Consumer deals to date have been well aired in the past, and shareholders will hopefully be familiar, for 
example, with our products in Boots and Tesco stores. Such deals leverage our technological lead in the area of 
killing germs and continuing to kill them, even when dry. We provide the technology and our partner completes 
the deal by selling the products to consumers. We now have several years of experience with such licence deals. 
Each deal, by its nature, tends to be large compared to our overall turnover, and typically there is a long lead time 
of product development followed by a period of 3 to 5 years of guaranteed minimum revenue.  
 
   Byotrol plc 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 4  
There is always the risk of an agreement not being finalised despite years of product development, and so it is 
more difficult to predict future income streams from such licence deals. However, once an agreement is 
completed at the end of the development phase, then a minimum level of income is locked in for the duration of 
the contract. Not only that, but the cost of servicing the deal for the remainder of its life is low, and management 
time is freed up to concentrate on the upcoming deals. The potential income could be described as lumpy but 
potentially large, so it is an attractive business model, especially when combined with the other Divisions with 
their steady income.  
 
Despite our cost reduction programme following the full integration of the BCP business, spending on technology 
will continue as we simply cannot afford to stand still. Dividing that cost between several divisions certainly helps, 
but we still need to grow our sales significantly, and the most promising way to do that in the medium term is to 
win new licence deals. We currently have discussions underway, but the timings and quantum of these deals are 
uncertain for the reasons outlined above.  
 
Risk 
 
All businesses face risk, and an appreciation of the threats and preparation for them is an integral part of the 
manager's task. For us, the largest threat at any particular time could be summed up in a word: Regulation . It 
slows us down, makes decision making by our customers a tortuous process, and then changes in unpredictable 
and sometimes irrational ways. Our ability to lobby is limited, but we have become adroit at working with the 
regulations as they change, and our technical lead remains undiminished. We intend to maintain, and indeed 
capitalise, on this lead. When our competitors struggle with the changes, it will spell opportunity for us. 
 
Fund Raising 
 
We raised  380,000 by way of an Issue of Convertible Loan Notes in December 2013, and this money was used 
primarily to cover the rationalisation costs of integrating the two companies. As announced on 25 June 2014 and 
subject to shareholder approval, we will effect a Placing of new shares raising  1.25 million before expenses. We 
already have a new management team in place, and this money will give them the tools to finish the job.  
 
No shareholder welcomes dilution, and the inevitable result of placing new shares is that the future value of the 
Company has to be shared between a higher number of shares. In raising the new money your Board has 
carefully weighed the advantage of being able to invest the cash against the disadvantage of having more shares 
in issue, and we have put considerable thought into raising the optimum amount.  
 
Included within the Resolutions to be voted upon at this year's AGM are permissions for the Board to use their 
discretion to issue further new shares in the period of a year following the AGM.  
 
Share Options     
 
This can be a contentious issue and a balance needs to be struck between giving our employees a meaningful 
incentive to succeed on the one hand, and not diluting the shareholders equity unreasonably on the other hand.  
Two points are worthy of mention in this regard. First: the vast majority of currently outstanding options are held 
by ex-employees. Second: the current senior management team hold virtually no options. 
 
The recent period has been more than busy, and something had to give. It is to the credit of our CEO and his 
team that one of the activities that has been postponed is the discussion and agreement of an incentive scheme. 
Such a scheme would be appropriate and this will be addressed in due course. 
 
AGM 
 
I urge you to use your vote this year, and indeed every year. Please either return your postal voting card, or even 
better, why not come to our AGM?  It will be held in Daresbury on 29
th
 July 2014, following the successful formula 
of last year, and we are hoping for strong shareholder attendance - we welcome the interaction. 
 
We are proud of our Company and this is a transitional year. Please come and probe away, ask the searching 
questions, and hopefully satisfy yourself that the new Board and Management team is working effectively on your 
behalf.  
 
 
Nicholas Martel 
Chairman 
4
th
 July 2014 
 