 CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
**
Allegra Research
Reports. Allegra Strategies
Ltd is an independent
consumer research firm
which has published
several comprehensive
studies of the UK Coffee
Bar market
Outlets
108
61
30
2000 2001 2002
Turnover ( m)
26.6
15.6
6.7
2000 2001 2002
Store profit ( m)
4.1
2.4
1.1
2000 2001 2002
EBITDA ( k)
1100
40
-219
2000
2001 2002
Introduction
I am pleased to report that despite difficult economic
conditions, in the Financial Year ended 31 May 2002
(FY 2002), Caff  Nero achieved dramatic growth and
strong financial results.
Small, fast growing businesses such as ours often
find it difficult to expand rapidly and concurrently
increase cash profits. But this past year we managed
to achieve both - and in a tough macro economic
climate. During the period, we witnessed a significant
drop in tourism - in London in particular - as a
result of the Foot and Mouth epidemic and the
events of September 11th. This, combined with 
a deterioration in the macro economic climate
generally and greater competition in the coffee bar
sector, meant that the consumer environment was
tougher to trade in than previously experienced.
Nonetheless, we stuck to our roll-out strategy and
concentrated on tight cost management. The results
speak for themselves; on the growth side, we
increased our number of stores by 77% and our
turnover by 70%; while, on the profit side, we
generated approximately  1.1m of additional cash
profit (EBITDA). 
Strategically, we also made gains. During the period,
Caff  Nero became the largest independent coffee
bar operator in the UK and also significantly increased
its market share versus competitors. For the third
consecutive year, consumers rated Caff  Nero the
number one coffee bar brand in the country. We are
encouraged to find that our Italian orientation,
superior coffee and strong food offering differentiates
our brand from our rivals and continues to register
favourably with customers.
In the year ahead, the Company will continue to
push forward. Our core objectives will be as follows:
retaining our position as one of the top ranked
brands in the coffee bar sector, growing our estate
and gaining market share, delivering a strong financial
performance, and creating value for shareholders.
Financial performance
Our financial performance for the 12 months ended
31 May 2002 was very strong. Sales for the year rose
by 70% to  26.6m (2001:  15.6m). Like-for-like
store sales were a solid 2% higher than last year,
despite the difficult retail climate. With greater scale,
we were in turn able to buy better and to improve
our margins. As a result of the factors above, store
profit increased sharply, rising by 73% to  4.1m
(2001:  2.4m).
Increased store profit and tight cost management led
to significant improvement in Caff  Nero's bottom
line. The Company generated a cash profit (EBITDA)
of  1.1m for FY2002 versus an EBITDA of  0.04m 
in FY2001. This substantial jump in EBITDA profit also
reflects the current phase of our roll-out model: a
significant portion of each new store's profit is now
flowing down to the bottom line, as only marginal
increases in central overheads are required to
support these new stores.
For the FY2002, the Operating Loss before Amortisation
of Goodwill and Exceptionals was reduced by
 0.22m to  0.79m (2001:  1.02m), after having
covered an increase of  0.77m in depreciation
(2002:  1.83m versus 2001:  1.06m). 
Finally, the pre-tax loss before exceptionals improved
by  0.4m to  1.5m (2001:  1.9m).
At the year-end, cash balances were a healthy  4.1m.
Since the year-end, however, there has been a
further significant development. We have refinanced
the company through the Bank of Scotland. This has
brought with it a series of important benefits, including:
cutting our interest rates, improving our repayment
profile, and securing an additional  7m of funds.
Access to these new funds gives Caff  Nero (after
some capital expenditure) a pool of more than 
 10m for our expansion programme with no debt
repayments required in FY2003. 
The Aroma Acquisition 
Late in our Financial Year (29 March 2002) Caff  Nero
also completed what we believe to be a very useful
deal. We acquired Aroma Limited from McDonald's
Corporation, cherry picking  29 of the best sites
from Aroma's list of stores. We paid approximately
 2.3m (including the outstanding overdraft) for these
properties and the Aroma brand. This equates to 
c.  100,000 per site, if no value is attributed to the
Aroma brand. Add in approximately  60,000 per site
for conversion costs to change the Aroma brand 
to Caff  Nero, and the total cost per site was well
below the normal cost of  200,000 required to 
build a new Caff  Nero. 
Acquiring the Aroma portfolio allowed us to leap in
scale, taking the Caff  Nero estate to 108 stores, 
and in so doing saved the Company about nine
months at our normal roll-out pace. The acquisition
also provided us with some very desirable properties
in central London, Reading, Manchester, Woking,
Ashford and Portsmouth. 
Several months on, the bulk of the site conversions
have now been completed. The integration process
has gone smoothly and early trading indications are
encouraging. We have been able to put in our own
cost structure, and revenues are running ahead of
budget. Although the Aroma sites were acquired too
late in the year to significantly impact the Company's
2002 results, we anticipate that these stores will make 
a substantial contribution to our profits in FY 2003.  4 CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
 This past year
Caff  Nero
achieved dramatic
growth and strong
financial results.'
 For the third
consecutive year,
consumers rated
Caff  Nero as the
number one coffee
house brand in 
the country.'
 This is a year of
opportunity and
we intend to take
advantage of it.'
Other developments 
Stores 
During FY2002 the Company opened (or acquired)
an additional 47 stores, a 77% increase in its number
of outlets. Our estate moved from 61 stores at the
beginning of the FY to 108 by the end. Hence, we
exceeded our target for the year of 100 cafes. Caff 
Nero is now the UK's largest independent coffee
house operator (and third overall in the UK behind
Starbucks and Costa). 
As well as increasing store numbers, during the
period the Company also broadened its geographic
spread, moving into 12 new towns and cities. These
12 additional cities mean that Caff  Nero now operates
in 36 towns and cities across the UK, making it truly
a national brand. 
Brand
Caff  Nero offers a continental-style coffee house
experience serving premium espresso-based,
gourmet coffee with a varied and high quality Italian
deli food menu which changes throughout the day. 
Consumer support for our offering and awareness of
our brand increased dramatically over the past year.
According to independent research consultancy
Allegra (the Allegra Report on Coffee, 2002*),
awareness of our brand grew by a massive 27.5%
over the past 18 months, nearly two and a half times
the increase of the next closest coffee bar brand. This
increase gives Caff  Nero an overall brand awareness
of 68% among UK consumers. 
Consumers also continue to prefer our brand over our
competitors. For the third consecutive year, consumers
rated the Caff  Nero brand as first among all coffee
house brands in the UK. We also came out top in
each of the four most important sub-categories: coffee
quality, atmosphere, service quality and food offering.
Operations 
Although we focused on expansion during FY2002,
we were able to strengthen Caff  Nero's organisational
structure. We further centralised our supply chain,
reducing the number of suppliers and switching to
those with national reach. We also bolstered our
regional structure to give more support to the
growing number of Caff  Nero stores outside the M25. 
A new recruitment centre opened in central London 
to increase effectiveness in handling staffing needs, as
we employ approximately 900 people. A programme
was also launched to increase staff retention, in
particular store managers - a critical element in our
business. Both initiatives have had a positive impact.
Staffing demands, while still an issue, have improved
and, on average, store managers now stay with the
company 30% longer.
Current trading 
Caff  Nero is off to an encouraging start to its current
year, FY2003. In the first two months - June and 
July 2002 - the Company's trading has continued 
in a solid and steady fashion. Like for like store sales
growth still shows positive single-digit figures, while
overall revenues are up by more than 65% year on
year. One helpful contributor has been the ex-Aroma
stores, which have now been integrated and are
beginning to make an impact. They are trading 
21% above their pre-acquisition figures. We are also
pleased with our progress on profitability. In the first
two months of the year, Caff  Nero's stores have
already generated an EBITDA profit which is  400,000
higher than for the same period last year.
Future prospects
Caff  Nero stands in good stead for the current year.
All the necessary ingredients are in place to deliver
another set of strong results. We have the top brand
in the coffee bar sector, we have a proven store
model which works both in London and in the
regions, and we are operating in a coffee bar market
which is still growing vigorously in the UK, particularly
outside London (Allegra forecasts 17% growth for
the UK branded segment this year).
What is more, Caff  Nero is in a position to take
advantage of the growth opportunities. We have the
funds, management and infrastructure in place to
support a continuation of our rapid expansion programme. 
That said, there are challenges ahead. We continue 
to experience a tough consumer trading environment,
and, undoubtedly, the coffee bar area remains
competitive. Indeed, the coming year will likely be
similar to the last, where stronger brands grow market
share and trading is solid rather than booming. There
might even be further consolidation in the sector,
with casualties for some weaker brands. 
But, I am confident that Caff  Nero will come
through as one of the winners. Our aim, much like
last year, will be to achieve significant growth while
generating increased profitability. Our market share
should rise further and we anticipate another marked
jump in our EBITDA profit. We shall be prudent 
and focused in our approach, but ambitious in our
objectives. This is a year of opportunity and we
intend to take advantage of it.
Gerry Ford
Chairman
11 Sept 2002
 Caff  Nero is off
to an encouraging
start in its current
year.' CUSTOMER, 35, MANCHESTER
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 5
THE COFFEE IN CAFF  NERO 
IS FABULOUS  CUSTOMER, 35, LONDON
CAFF  NERO HAS THE 
BEST SERVICE AND ATMOSPHERE 
6 CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002