 05
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
The directors and I are delighted with Caff  Nero
Group PLC's (Caff  Nero  or the Group ) results 
for the 12 months to 31 May 2004 (FY2004). It was 
a year of outstanding achievement on all three of 
our key fronts: growth, profitability and brand rating.
Record financial results combined with significant
national expansion (opening 43 new stores and
broadening the brand's geographic spread in the
UK), a notable increase of market share, and a fifth
consecutive top rating from UK consumers. In short,
Caff  Nero continued to have success in its roll-out
of a small, but very promising and profitable brand. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
We had a very satisfactory set of financial results for
the year, achieving record turnover and profit. Sales
increased by 28% to  50.5m (2003:  39.4m) and
like-for-like store sales were positive 4%. 
While revenues moved forward at a steady pace,
profits cascaded toward the bottom line. Store 
Profit (profit before central overheads) increased 
markedly for a third successive year, rising by 46%
to  10.6m (2003:  7.3m).
Caff  Nero's Cash Flow Profit (EBITDA) for FY2004
raced ahead at an even quicker pace, increasing
56% to  6.5m (2003:  4.2m). This jump reflected 
the same phenomenon as in the previous two years:
having reached a threshold size of stores and
infrastructure, a large portion of each new store's
profit now flows down to the Group's profit line.
Consequently, large increases occurred in Caff  Nero's
Adjusted Operating Profit (before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptionals), which rose by 88% 
to  3.1m (2003:  1.6m) and in its non-Adjusted
Operating Profit (after amortisation of goodwill and
exceptionals), which improved by 106% to  2.4m
(2003:  1.1m).
Most importantly, the Group achieved strong results
at the pre-tax profit level. Caff  Nero's Adjusted
Pre-Tax Profit (before amortisation of goodwill and
exceptionals) grew by 127% to  2.4m (2003:  1.0m).
Likewise, its non-Adjusted Pre-Tax Profit (after
amortisation of goodwill and exceptionals) also
improved significantly, increasing by 226% to  1.7m
(2003:  519k). 
Finally, Caff  Nero produced a Profit After Tax of
 2.5m (2003:  0.5m) for the year. This was after
recognising a deferred tax asset of  776,000, which
was required to be recognised under FRS 19. Basic
earnings per share rose from 0.76p to 3.75p. But 
to aid comparability with other years, the financial
statements also show earnings per share on pre-tax
profits, which grew from 0.76p to 2.56p.
BALANCE SHEET AND FUNDING
At the year end 31 May 2004, Caff  Nero's cash
balances stood at  3.2m. Net debt was  9.4m 
(1.45x EBITDA of  6.5m) with an additional  3.0m 
of facilities available from the Bank of Scotland (since
the year end a further  3.5m of bank facilities have
been negotiated).
Most notable is that by the end of FY2004 Caff  Nero
reached a pivotal point regarding funding: the Group
became self-financing. That is to say, Caff  Nero's
internally generated cash profit (EBITDA) roughly
equates to its planned annual UK capital expenditure
(assuming an average of 35 new stores per year).
Hence, we do not anticipate requiring additional
funds for our organic UK roll-out. This may change if
we shift our growth pattern, acquire another business
or commit to international expansion. However, in 
our current modus operandi, our EBITDA cash flow
and banking facilities should be more than sufficient
to fuel our UK roll-out.
Another development during FY2004 is that we
bought back shares in the Group, and subsequently
cancelled these shares. We purchased 2.9 million
shares, or 4.3% of Caff  Nero, at 20p. Our objective
was to reduce the number of Caff  Nero shares in
issue in an effort to enhance shareholder value.
THE UK RETAIL COFFEE MARKET
Growth and size
The UK coffee bar market is booming. From a virtual
standstill seven years ago, the sector today is worth
in excess of  2 billion. Within this broader  2 billion
market, the branded segment alone has already
reached  630m and is expected to top  1 billion
within the next few years. According to Allegra
Strategies, the definitive UK coffee industry market
researchers, this branded segment will experience
10-15% annual growth for at least the next three
years. Furthermore, Allegra claims the branded
segment will continue to take market share from 
local players. Hence, not only is the UK retail coffee
market getting bigger and at a very rapid pace, but
the branded slice within it is getting larger, too.
Competitive landscape
With the UK branded market expected to reach 
 1 billion in the next few years, three brands have
emerged in pole position to take advantage of this
growth: Caff  Nero, Starbucks and Costa Coffee.
Indeed, the branded segment has already consolidated,
such that the above three players now control
approximately 57% of the market. Two of these
three, Caff  Nero and Starbucks, are gaining market
share faster than any other brand in the coffee
industry. Caff  Nero currently has 11% of the UK
branded market, having gained 4.3% market share
over the last three years. This underlines the fact that
the UK retail coffee market seems to have divided
into two segments: a European offering - where
Caff  Nero leads the way - and a North American
offering - where Starbucks has top billing. CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 06
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
CONTINUED
BRAND
We are proud and grateful that UK consumers have
continued to embrace the Caff  Nero brand.
Caff  Nero is a European-style coffee house brand
serving high quality espresso-based coffee, and top
quality Italian deli food that changes throughout the day.
It appears that Caff  Nero's brand appeal has remained
firmly intact over the past year. UK coffee consumers
(according to the Allegra report on coffee 2004) 
rated Caff  Nero as the top ranked major coffee
brand for the fifth consecutive year. Not only were 
we ranked number one overall, but Caff  Nero came
first among the major brands in each of the key
individual sub-categories: coffee quality, service,
atmosphere and food offering. This was a great
accolade for our business.
EXPANSION
Stores
FY2004 was a year of expansion for Caff  Nero. 
We set out to increase the rate of our store openings
and to extend the breadth of our UK locations.
Management adopted this strategy because we
believed that the Caff  Nero brand was now
accepted by UK consumers, suitable sites were
available at reasonable rents, and the Group had
sufficient funds for a faster roll-out. In short, we
chose to seize the moment.
The result of our efforts was that Caff  Nero opened
43 sites, sold one ex-Aroma unit and handed another
store back to the landlord for development during 
the 12 months ending 31 May 2004. This took our
store numbers from 121 to 162, representing a 34%
increase in our estate in one year. In fact, our
expansion was such that by the year end (May 2004)
we had stores in 56 UK towns and cities, and employed
approximately 1500 people from 65 countries. 
During FY2004 our store development programme
continued to reflect a two-pronged site selection
strategy: (1) build up clusters of sites in large urban
areas, and (2) target smaller desirable, regional towns.
For example, in Scotland we increased our presence 
to 10 stores, likewise in Manchester we surged to 
10 sites and in greater Birmingham we have a grouping
of six sites.
We also continued to source sites in smaller regional
towns. In FY2004, we added stores in Kidderminster,
Chelmsford, Epsom, Stockport, Stafford, Hemel
Hempstead and Hitchin. 
These new sites appear to be doing well. At the end
of May 2004, trading in the 43 new stores was ahead
of budget and board expectations. 
CURRENT TRADING
Caff  Nero is off to a strong start to the current year,
FY2005. Revenue for the first quarter (June-August 04)
is up by approximately 40% on the equivalent 
period last year and like-for-like store sales are
positive 6.5% (above our normal range of 2-4%),
with encouraging results coming from stores in all 
UK regions.
We are equally optimistic about prospects for the rest
of the financial year. As mentioned above, the branded
coffee bar market is continuing to experience
double-digit growth. We are also continuing to see 
a plethora of stores available at reasonable rents.
Consequently, we expect our growth rate to continue
at much the same pace as last year: approximately
one new store every 10 days. 
In the first quarter alone we opened 21 new stores,
which is well ahead of schedule. Recall, however,
that eight of these outlets were as a result of an
acquisition from Coffee Republic. The key elements
of the Coffee Republic transaction were as follows: 
in June 2004 we bought eight Coffee Republic stores
in exchange for the surrender of our 6% holding in
Coffee Republic PLC and  730,000 in cash. This deal
ended our equity ownership in Coffee Republic and
strengthened our brand presence in the south and
south west of England. The acquired sites were in
Weymouth, Bath, Yeovil, Brighton, Cardiff and
Banbury. All eight ex-Coffee Republic stores have
now been converted to the Caff  Nero brand, and
sales on average are already up by more than 25%
under our ownership.
A snapshot of our store estate shows that we
currently have 183 stores, and, at our present pace,
this should increase to 200 stores trading by
February 2005. 
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Caff  Nero is well positioned to have another excellent
year. All the key ingredients appear to be in place: 
a thriving UK retail coffee market, a fortuitous retail
property market with appropriate sites at reasonable
prices, a coffee brand rated highly by UK consumers,
a management team and infrastructure well-equipped
to sustain and support growth and sufficient funds 
to finance the Group's roll-out.
Our goals for this FY2005 remain consistent with last
year: growth, profitability and brand rating. If we
deliver another year of strong revenue growth, while
significantly increasing profitability and retaining our
top rating for the Caff  Nero brand, then shareholder
value will be greatly enhanced.
GERRY FORD
CHAIRMAN
13 September 2004 IT'S THE TRADITIONAL ITALIAN CAFE 
EGON RONAY GUIDE
07
  CAFFE NERO IS THE COMMUNITY GATHERING
SPOT: COME READ THE PAPER, TALK WITH
FRIENDS, HAVE A BUSINESS MEETING OR JUST
WATCH THE WORLD GO BY 
08
 