 05
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
The directors and I are very pleased with Caff  Nero's
performance for the 12 months to 31 May 2005
(FY2005). It was another year of record financial results
and of outstanding achievement on all three of our
key fronts: growth, profitability and brand rating. We
opened 52 (net) new stores in the year, grew operating
profit by 155% and retained our number one brand
ranking with consumers. A snapshot of the year
reinforces that Caff  Nero is emerging as a highly
promising national brand.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
We are delighted with the financial results. Caff  Nero
exceeded every financial target set by the Board 
for the Group at the beginning of the year and, in 
the process, achieved record turnover and profit.
Sales increased 39% to  70.1m (2004:  50.5m) and
like-for-like sales were up 7.5%, the highest in 
Caff  Nero's history. Caff  Nero has now recorded 
32 consecutive quarters of positive like-for-like sales.
Profit also increased sharply. Store Profit (profit
before central overheads) rose by 60% to  17.1m
(2004:  10.6m). EBITDA, the critical measurement of
cashflow profit, jumped 81% to  11.8m (2004:
 6.5m). This leap forward reflects the same
phenomenon as in the previous three years: having
reached a threshold number of stores and a sufficient
level of infrastructure, a large portion of each new
store's profit flows down to the Group's profit line.
Consequently, significant increases occurred in Caff 
Nero's adjusted Operating Profit (before amortisation
of goodwill and exceptionals), which grew by 112%
to  6.5m (2004:  3.1m). Likewise, we made great
strides in non-adjusted Operating Profit, which
climbed by 155% to  6.0m (2004:  2.4m).
Increases at the pre-tax profit level were equally
robust. The Group's adjusted Pre-tax Profit (before
amortisation of goodwill) rose by 156% to  5.6m
(2004:  2.2m), while Caff  Nero's non-adjusted 
Pre-tax Profit improved by 201% to a record  5.1m
(2004:  1.7m).
Profit After-Tax was also a record; it climbed to
 5.0m, which is a 100% increase. Basic earnings per
share rose from 3.75p to 7.49p, also a 100% uplift.
More relevant (due to the recognition of a deferred
tax asset last year) is the pre-tax earnings per share
figure, which jumped from 2.56p to 7.72p, a 202%
increase. All in all, this was a very respectable
financial performance.
BALANCE SHEET AND FUNDING
At the year end 31 May 2005, Caff  Nero's cash
position stood at  4.0m. Net debt was  11.6m 
(c.1.0 x EBITDA of  11.8m). An additional  3.5m
facility was also available from the Bank of Scotland,
if required.
Caff  Nero's cash flow generating capabilities
suggest that in the next 12 months there will be no
need for further funds outside the Group's existing
arrangements, at least not unless there is a further
acceleration of growth or an acquisition. The Group's
internally-generated cash is now able to finance its
capital expenditure programme. This means Caff 
Nero can self-fund more than 50 new stores per
annum without any outside financing.
THE UK RETAIL COFFEE MARKET
Growth and Size
The UK coffee bar market continues to be an 
exciting market. Overall, it registers at approximately
 2.2 billion. The fastest growing segment within that
is the branded coffee bar area. In 2005, the branded
segment was worth approximately  700 million
(Allegra Strategies). The pace of growth of this branded
segment continues to be astounding. According to
Allegra Strategies, the definitive UK coffee industry
researchers, the branded market will rise by more
than 10% per annum for the next few years. Most
experts now expect the branded segment to
approach the  1 billion mark in the UK within the
next five years. Without doubt, a great market
opportunity exists for Caff  Nero on the road ahead.
Competitive Landscape
Three main brands continue to dominate the UK
branded coffee segment: Caff  Nero, Starbucks and
Costa Coffee. Together these three brands already
control approximately 57% of the  700 million
market. Two of the three, Caff  Nero and Starbucks,
are gaining market share faster than their competitors.
In fact, Caff  Nero, which has approximately 12% 
of the branded market, is growing market share the
fastest, gaining nearly 1% share per annum over the
last few years. 
With the ascendancy of these two brands, it appears
the branded UK retail coffee market has divided 
into two sub-segments: a European offering - where
Caff  Nero is the leader - and a North American
proposition - where Starbucks is the main player.
These two market leaders are well positioned to
benefit the most from the continuing growth of the
branded UK coffee sector.
The Dynamics
There has been much debate about the reasons
behind the spectacular growth in the UK coffee
market and whether it is here to stay. Any explanation
needs to factor in several converging developments
with the UK consumer. Firstly, coffee culture has
been steadily creeping into UK society and, in
particular, there has been greater appreciation of,
and demand for, gourmet espresso-based coffee.
Secondly, caf  society has been spreading from the
continent at a greater rate than in the past. As more
people travel to and from Europe, a lifestyle change
in the UK has begun to take shape. Thirdly, a new
generation and mentality has emerged in the UK: 
one that demands venues which are female friendly,
clean and airy, as well as alcohol-free and flexible in
format. These three factors are unlikely to recede for
the UK consumer. Coffee houses with quality brands
have filled the needs of these converging consumer
demands and look set to continue to do so.  CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 06
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
CONTINUED
BRAND
Caff  Nero is a European-style coffee house brand
serving high-quality espresso based coffee, and top
quality deli food that changes throughout the day.
We aim to serve as a gathering spot for the local
community or neighbourhood. Our intention is for
customers to feel welcome to grab a coffee and go,
have a business meeting, take a break from shopping,
have a chat with friends or just sit and read the paper.
We have been fortunate enough to have UK
consumers embrace our brand. Last year they ranked
Caff  Nero as the number one rated UK coffee brand
for the fifth consecutive year. In fact, UK consumers
rated Caff  Nero as the leader in coffee quality,
atmosphere, service and food offering (Allegra Report
on coffee 2004). We hope consumers will continue 
to appreciate our brand in the years to come.
EXPANSION
Last year was another year of significant expansion
for Caff  Nero. We opened 60 new stores, sold five
ex-Aroma stores, and handed three stores back to
landlords for redevelopment. This gave us a net
increase of 52 stores, our biggest expansion in one
year since our inception and a 32% jump in our
overall estate. 
The greatest concentration of these new stores
occurred in the regions, particularly the Midlands,
North West and South West. Our property strategy
had two prongs: (1) build up clusters in urban areas,
and (2) expand into smaller, desirable regional towns.
Consequently, we continued to build our presence in
Manchester, Bristol, Bath, Nottingham and Cambridge.
Concurrently, we opened in such places as Formby,
Lancaster, Huddersfield, Torquay, Fareham, Warwick
and Leamington Spa. 
At the year end, we had 214 stores operating in 
90 UK towns and cities and employed approximately
2,200 people from 66 countries. The directors believe
there is considerably more potential in the UK
market, with room for at least 400 Caff  Nero stores.
PARTNERSHIPS
During the year, we also strengthened our relationship
with House of Fraser, opening in their Victoria
(London), Croydon, Guildford and Glasgow stores.
Our partnership with BAA was likewise bolstered, 
as we added two new sites at Heathrow in the year. 
The success of these ventures highlights that there
are a wide variety of formats and locations where 
the Caff  Nero brand can flourish.
In line with our role as the community gathering spot,
we have also initiated partnerships with a number 
of community arts and culture groups. Last year we
supported the British Museum's Egyptian Mummy
show  and the Tate Britain's Turner Whistler Monet 
exhibition, while also assisting the Old Vic and the
Royal Shakespeare Company.
CURRENT TRADING AND DEVELOPMENTS
The Group has had a promising start to its current
financial year. Despite the London bombings and the
UK consumer slowdown, Caff  Nero has continued
to trade solidly throughout June, July and August.
Revenues are up by 34% in the first quarter. 
In the same three months, the Group has opened 
16 new stores, which is slightly ahead of schedule.
Currently we have 230 stores operating in 101 UK
towns and cities. Our objective is to introduce 
41 new cafes in the year, giving us 255 stores by 
our year end, May 2006. 
Since the year end we have also further strengthened
our senior management team with the appointment
of a new UK Managing Director, Jonathan Hart.
Jonathan joins us after having previously been Group
Managing Director of Dixons and Head of the Retail
Network of Abbey National. He will help in the day-
to-day management of the UK business, drawing
from a solid background of more than 20 years of
retail experience. 
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Caff  Nero is poised to have another strong year.
Much like last year, all the main ingredients remain 
in place for us to excel: a thriving UK retail coffee
market, a favourable retail property environment with
extensive availability of sites at reasonable prices, 
a coffee brand highly rated by UK consumers, 
a management team and general infrastructure 
well-placed to support a roll-out, and self-generated
funds sufficient to finance the Group's growth.
The theme then for this current year is more of the
same. We intend to continue our UK roll-out in 
a disciplined manner. We also plan to bolster our
processes and controls to allow us to more effectively
manage our enlarging business. 
One additional aspect to the year will be to spend
more time analysing international opportunities,
namely in Northern Europe and the Middle East. 
We believe that Caff  Nero has great potential
abroad and it is time to examine which new markets
will provide the best opportunities.
Nonetheless, the key to a successful year for 
Caff  Nero is to stay focussed on the UK and to
continue to deliver growth, profitability and a strong
brand rating.
GERRY FORD
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE
14 September 2005 07
CAFFE NERO IS THE COMMUNITY GATHERING
SPOT: COME READ THE PAPER, TALK WITH
FRIENDS, HAVE A BUSINESS MEETING OR JUST
WATCH THE WORLD GO BY 
  08
IT'S THE TRADITIONAL ITALIAN CAFE 
EGON RONAY GUIDE