 8  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operational 
Review
Leadership & 
Governance
Financial 
Statements
Additional 
Information
Strategic 
Review
Share price performance from 2002 to 2012 (GBp)
Chairman & CEO Statement 
Sir Bill Gammell and Simon Thomson
A year of  
significant progress
During 2012 Cairn delivered on its main strategic goal  
of positioning the Company for future growth.
The distribution of ~US$3.5bn to shareholders 
early in the year marked the culmination of a 
~US$4.5bn capital return to shareholders over 
the past five years. The distribution also reduced 
the Company's equity base, re-gearing it to 
frontier exploration success. Additional proceeds 
were realised from subsequent share sales of 
our residual CIL shareholding throughout the 
year. These additional proceeds were retained  
as working capital to further strengthen the 
Company's cash position, fund the two 
corporate acquisitions made during the year and 
to build then take forward the frontier exploration 
portfolio. The demonstration of market liquidity 
of the CIL shareholding as a financial asset is 
relevant when it is considered that our remaining 
~10% interest had a year-end market value of 
US$1.1bn. 
The Company has remained focused on  
its vision to create an exploration led and 
sustainable cash generative oil and gas business 
offering shareholders exposure to material 
capital growth potential. By constructing  
a balanced portfolio of growth opportunities, 
whilst retaining a strong balance sheet, we  
are well placed to repeat the cycle of creating, 
adding and realising shareholder value.
The profit after tax for the year of US$73m  
reflects foreign exchange gains and other 
finance income, offset against the costs  
of unsuccessful exploration activities. 
The Company is in a strong position with 
Group net cash at 31 December 2012 of 
US$1.6bn and an ~10% residual shareholding  
in CIL valued at US$1.1bn. 
The areas we have chosen for our exploration 
focus include the frontier basins along the 
Atlantic Margin and in the Mediterranean, as well 
as targeting new plays within the more mature 
UK North Sea and Norwegian Continental Shelf. 
The corporate acquisitions during 2012 have 
provided non-operated interests in the pre-
development Kraken, Catcher and Mariner oil 
fields located in the UK North Sea and have 
secured future long term cash flows. 
Our clear focus is to operate exploration 
positions and opportunities which we believe 
have the most organic growth potential and 
where we have the experience, ability and 
knowledge to add most value. As a consequence, 
we are planning an extendable programme to 
drill multiple frontier exploration wells over the 
coming 18 months which will target >3.5bn boe 
of mean un-risked gross prospective resource 
within a total of Yet to Find  potential in excess 
of 8.5bn boe.
Atlantic Margin
Morocco 
We operate two exploration permits in frontier 
acreage offshore Morocco - the primary 
exploration plays are the turbidite fan systems of 
Lower Cretaceous age in the Foum Draa permits 
and the Middle and Lower Jurassic shelf edge 
carbonates in the Juby Maritime permits. 
Multiple leads and prospects have been identified 
in Foum Draa on pre-existing 3D seismic. One 
prospect is planned to be drilled in 2013 and  
the next prospect may be scheduled for drilling 
in 2014, subject to necessary approvals. 
An Esso 1968/69 well discovered and tested 
2,377 bopd of heavy oil in Upper Jurassic 
carbonates at Cap Juby on the Juby Maritime 
I permit. We believe significant exploration 
potential exists in the Middle Jurassic carbonates 
where a previously sub-optimally located well 
encountered 38  API oil shows. The 3D seismic 
over the Cap Juby structure is currently being 
reprocessed and an exploration well, subject  
to necessary approvals, is planned in 2013. 
Elsewhere, Cairn acquired a 680km  3D seismic 
survey over a carbonate edge prospect in the 
Juby Maritime II permit in late 2012 which  
will be a candidate for an exploration well  
in 2013/2014. 
Senegal 
We are pleased to announce a farm-in as 
Operator (65%) to the Sangomar, Sangomar 
Deep and Rufisque frontier exploration blocks 
offshore Senegal held by FAR Limited (FAR), 
with Petrosen (the Senegal National Oil 
Company) as a Joint Venture (JV) partner, 
subject to regulatory approval. These blocks 
straddle the Mesozoic carbonate shelf edge  
and contain multiple play types and have an 
estimated gross mean un-risked Yet to Find  
prospective resource of >1.5bn boe.
It is the intention, subject to necessary 
approvals, to drill an exploration well on the  L' 
prospect which has an estimated gross mean 
un-risked prospective resource of more than  
250 million barrels of oil (mmbbls) in 2013/2014. 
Depending on the well results, further drilling 
can be anticipated. Cairn is to acquire its working 
interest operatorship by funding 100% of the 
costs of one exploration well to an investment 
cap. Thereafter exploration costs will be 
apportioned Cairn 72.2% (Working Interest (WI) 
65%), FAR 27.8% (WI 25%) and Petrosen 0.0% 
(WI 10%). As part of the transaction, Cairn will 
also pay 72.2% of costs incurred by FAR to date 
on the blocks, a total of ~US$10m. 
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
1,600
1,200
800
400
0
 
Cairn Energy
 
FTSE 100 
 
FTSE 250 
 
FTSE 350 
 
FTSE 350 O&G Greenland 
The Shell operated industry consortium  
shallow borehole programme undertaken  
in the summer of 2012 has for the first time 
established a stratigraphy for the Baffin Bay 
Basin. The boreholes additionally encountered 
good oil prone source rocks and reservoir  
quality sands in the Cretaceous section. Cairn 
also repeated and extended its 2011 geochemical 
survey in 2012 to give statistically more meaningful 
results. Evaluation of this work confirms the 
Melville Basin as having an active petroleum 
system, whilst recognising that the basin  
is undrilled. This conclusion also underpins  
the increased industry activity and interest in  
the region with a number of other operators 
acquiring seismic data during 2012.
It is estimated that the aggregate gross mean 
Yet to Find  unrisked prospective resource  
of Cairn's licences offshore Greenland is  
>6bn boe. 
Cairn's current focus in the region is on the  
Pitu block. Cairn (56.825%) with its joint venture 
partners Nunaoil (12.5%) and Statoil ASA 
(30.625%), the latter having farmed into Pitu  
in 2012. A drilling decision will be taken in 2013 
targeting an exploration well in 2014, subject to 
necessary approvals. 
As with all our operations, we ensure that we  
act responsibly, taking a high level of care and 
respect towards the people and environments 
where we work. For example, during the 
summer of 2012, a team undertook public 
consultations with the local communities located 
near the Pitu area. The information gathered 
during these meetings will inform our approach 
as we develop our plans for 2014.
Elsewhere in Greenland, we continue to evaluate 
the data acquired over the last few field seasons 
and will seek to farm-out certain areas and 
rationalise the portfolio.
The Greenland Government has now opened  
the blocks off the north east coast of Greenland 
for licencing. This area is the conjugate margin  
to northern Norway, where many major new finds 
have been made. Bid round 1 was exclusive  
to the oil majors of the Kanamas group (Shell, 
Chevron, ExxonMobil, Statoil, BP and Japan 
National Oil Corporation (JNOC)). Bid Round 2 
will be open to any qualifying industry player. 
UK and Norwegian North Sea  
& Norwegian Continental Shelf
The corporate acquisitions made in 2012 provide 
us with the platform to deliver solid and sustainable 
cash flow, as well as mature basin exploration 
opportunities in the Norwegian and UK North 
Sea. Furthermore, they bring a team with a 
wealth of exploration experience in the region 
that greatly widens our technical capability and 
ability to evaluate new opportunities. 
The Skarfjell oil discovery (well 35/9-7) made  
by Wintershall (UK North Sea) Ltd in April 2012 
(Cairn 20%) was immediately followed by a 3D 
seismic survey and appraisal continues with  
the down-dip 35/9-8 well currently operating 
(spudded February 2013). The operator's 
estimated gross 2C resource range for Skarfjell 
post discovery was between 60mmbbls and 
160mmbbls. The current appraisal well is 
designed to test reservoir extent, thickness  
and quality down-dip as well as establish fluid 
content below the known oil down to  in the 
discovery well. Resource estimates will be 
updated following the field appraisal. 
The Field Development Plan (FDP) was approved 
for the Mariner field in February 2013. The FDPs 
for the Kraken and Catcher fields, operated by 
EnQuest and Premier Oil will be submitted H1 
and H2 2013 respectively.
 
People
We would like to recognise and thank  
all the creative effort, hard work and 
commitment the management,  
employees and contractor teams  
working for Cairn have put in during  
our work in the last year. 
We are delighted to report that Paul Mayland  
has been appointed Chief Operating Officer for 
Cairn, reporting directly to Simon Thomson.
We believe that to ensure we deliver our  
goals and provide shareholder value  
we must employ the right people in  
the right roles. We seek to ensure  
a diverse workforce and encourage  
women to pursue careers in our  
industry. At present, women comprise  
22% of our board, 33% of our  
management and 49% of our staff  
across our whole organisation. 
Outlook
Following the cash return to  
shareholders and the creation  
of a balanced portfolio of frontier  
exploration prospects, Cairn is  
well placed to deliver on its  
strategy to pursue exploration  
led growth.
We anticipate that the development of the 
Catcher and Kraken fields will lead to first oil and 
cash flow in 2016/17. Cairn will also participate  
in a number of non-operated exploration wells  
in the UK and Norway on an annual basis. 
These foundations will help support a multi-year 
drilling campaign involving multiple and material 
exploration wells. The lower capital base achieved 
by the redistribution of cash following the 
realisation of value from past successes ideally 
positions shareholders to benefit from the 
enhanced gearing to future exploration success.
Sir Bill Gammell 
Chairman
Simon Thomson 
Chief Executive 
18 March 2013
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012  9    