 Camco Annual Report and Accounts 2010 20
Business Review
Chairman's Report
  Our strategy of expanding our 
services to build a clean energy 
development business is right and 
achievable and is underpinned by 
the increasing regulatory incentives  
to reduce emissions.
I am delighted to report an exciting and profitable year  
for the Company. It has been nine months since I moved 
into my new role as the Acting Chairman and I am happy  
to note 2010 was a highly successful and thriving year for 
Camco. We have seen market consolidation, which has 
changed the competitive landscape while Camco has 
secured its market leading position in our key regions.  
Our strategy of expanding our services to build a clean 
energy development business is right and achievable, and 
is underpinned by the increasing regulatory incentives to 
reduce emissions and develop clean energy in our markets. 
The European Union has confirmed it will accept  
CDM projects registered before 2012 into the EU-ETS 
phase three, which operates until 2020. This is a major 
development for Camco, as in 2010 we have contracted  
a large portfolio of projects which are eligible under  
this legislative development (Camco does not own  
any carbon credits from HFC or N2O projects which  
are expected not to be eligible for phase three of the  
EU-ETS). While there has been recent press coverage  
on fraudulent trading in EUA allowances, this does  
not directly affect Camco, as we do not trade EUA 
allowances. Camco as a carbon project developer 
delivers, from its projects, CERs or ERUs, which we  
can sell either OTC or spot. 
Unfortunately, in the short term these EUA allowance 
activities have resulted in negative sentiment in the 
European market generally. The positive consequence  
of such activities will, in the long-term, be a more  
tightly controlled regulated market, which is better  
for all participants. 
In Asia the last year has seen a push by governments  
and the corporate sector to reduce emissions and create  
a cleaner economy. China aims to cut the amount of 
carbon it emits per unit of economic output to 40-45% 
less than the 2005 level by the year 2020. It has started 
developing internal cap and trade systems, with pilot 
schemes to run in five provinces and eight cities, 
including Beijing. Other countries across South East Asia  
are also adopting a range of legislative steps to promote 
a cleaner economy. In Malaysia, for example, the feed  
in tariff legislative initiative has passed its first hearing  
in Parliament. This is just one of many regional initiatives  
to meet the ambitious emission reduction goals and our 
joint venture with Khazanah Nasional Berhad will see 
increasing market opportunities as a result of such 
legislative change. 
In North America, the California Air Resources Board 
adopted regulations that permit the use of carbon  
credit offsets to meet compliance targets from four project 
types, one of which is livestock projects. Camco has been 
working with eligible dairy farmers for the past two and  
a half years and we have the largest number of projects 
registered under the Climate Action Reserve's Livestock 
Protocol. This enables Camco to offer large, assured 
volumes of offsets into the Californian market. We expect 
an increasing demand from the scheduled start date  
of 1 January 2012. 
Our advisory business extends our global reach and  
we have continued to provide thought leadership for  
our corporate and government clients. We have supported 
several governments on their Feed-In Tariffs legislation 
and our service in the UK on the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment has expanded considerably. These 
legislative developments create additional opportunities 
and we are in an excellent position to exploit them.
The COP16 in Cancun in December last year, has 
provided clear guidance on a number of issues,  
not least the adoption of measures to speed up the 
registration and delivery process of Clean Development 
Mechanism projects and strong support to prepare this 
mechanism to operate effectively beyond 2012. 
Dr Jeff Kenna, (Acting) Chairman 21 Camco Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Our recent experience is that these changes are  
already improving the time it takes to register our 
projects. There is still insufficient clarity regarding 
international cap and trade mechanisms and we do  
not expect this to improve in the near term. However,  
in the absence of an international agreement on caps  
we are seeing strong development of regional schemes 
and bi-lateral agreements, which will underwrite the 
market and reduce emissions in the near term.
We expect to see more regulatory developments over  
the near to medium term which will have a positive impact 
on our business creating additional sources of revenues. 
These include: incentives in China to reduce emissions 
and introduce cap and trade pilot schemes; a regional 
offset scheme in Japan; a cap and trade scheme in  
South Korea; inclusion of other North American states 
and provinces in the Californian cap and trade scheme; 
and the development of emission reduction incentives  
in Australia.
Last year saw two Board changes. I am happy to 
welcome Yariv Cohen as an Executive Director to the 
Board. Mr. Cohen joined the board in May last year and 
has been a valuable addition to the team. David Potter 
resigned from the Board and I would like to thank him  
and our Non-Executive Directors for the contribution  
that they made to the Company during the year.
Camco has taken important steps this year in delivering 
strong performance in all its business activities and 
preparing for the future. We have increased our efforts  
to work and communicate with shareholders and 
stakeholders. This will be a central focus in 2011.  
We have continued to be awarded industry accolades, 
such as the  2010 Commodity Business Award for the 
Renewable Energy Markets' and have once again been 
chosen as Best Project Developer in 2010 following 
similar awards over the previous three years. I would  
like to congratulate our management and staff on their 
achievements in 2010 and I look forward to another 
successful year in 2011.
Dr Jeff Kenna, (Acting) Chairman
21 February 2011
Shaping Our Market
Our policy focus complements our advisory and project based expertise.  
We use innovative projects or technical work to help set frameworks and show 
they work, helping policy makers, whether public sector or private, to see  
the benefits. 
An excerpt of our policy work:
Theme: Carbon Market Development Regulatory Input and Market Analysis
The carbon market forms the basis for much of our work in our carbon, 
advisory and, to a great extent, investment business. Showing our expertise  
on all matters related to the market, such as climate change science and 
legislation, renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies and 
legislation or overall environmental legislation at an international, national, 
regional or local level is therefore crucial to our success. 
1.  CMIA Response to UNFCCC Secretariat and EB calls for input on review 
and issuance procedures following the Copenhagen 5th CMP', Camco 
co-author of CMIA submission to the UNFCCC Secretariat, March 2010. 
2.  Adapting CDM Methodologies to stimulate investment in clean energy 
technology to capture flared gas for electricity generation', GGFR, World 
Bank, Washington, DC, March 2010.
3.  LDCs and Carbon Markets: What's in Store for the World's Poorest 
Countries?', Cancun CMP5, December 2010. 
Theme: Carbon and Clean Energy Finance
Financing is a key issue in the clean energy and carbon markets, enabling  
the development of new projects in both. Presenting on Camco's extensive 
experience in mobilising, structuring, and packaging finance deals helps us 
to ensure potential clients are well aware of our expertise in the field. 
1.  How to mobilise financial resources in Africa', Africa DNA Forum in Nairobi, 
March 2010.
2.  Global Climate Change: Carbon Market Financial Mechanisms', USAID 
Economic Growth Officers' Conference, Washington, DC, June 2010.
Theme: REDD+
REDD+ is set to be a central element in global emission reduction policies. 
Hence we are positioning Camco as one of the world's thought leaders and 
practitioners in REDD+. Working with trade associations and key stakeholders 
we were instrumental in setting the agenda for the Cancun REDD+ discussions 
and outcomes. 
1.  Laying the Foundation for a REDD+ Mechanism', Analysis and stance/ 
recommendations on key REDD+ policy issues, CMIA Discussion paper. 
April 2010.
2.  Addressing REDD project leakage', IETA Guidance Note - Quantifying and 
putting in place measures to address leakage in REDD projects, June 2010, 
IETA.
3.  Options for REDD National Reference Levels', IETA Discussion Paper 
- Analysis and recommendations on REDD national reference levels under 
the proposed California cap and trade scheme, Camco lead author, 
November 2010, IETA and California ARB 32 policy makers.
Theme: Energy and Climate Change in Africa
Most would acknowledge that Africa will be one of the worst-affected areas of the 
world if the deleterious effects of global climate change are not seriously tackled. 
African countries will be among the main hosts of emission reduction and clean 
energy projects in the next several years. Camco worked with nearly a dozen 
governments over the last year to help set policy frameworks in the region. 
1.  Towards Low Carbon Growth in South Africa', Low Carbon Growth 
Seminar, Protea Hotel Balalaika Sandton, May 2010.
2. Presentation to the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) on 
 Climate Change: Risks and Opportunities for the South African Economy', 
COSATU Climate Change Workshop, July 2010.
3. Presentation to Fossil Fuel Foundation on  Climate Change: Risks and 
Opportunities for the South African Coal Sector', July 2010.