 04
Cape PLC 
Annual report 2003
I am very pleased to report that the Group has continued
to make strong and sustainable progress over the second
half of 2003. The fundamental restructuring of the Group
is materially complete.
Turnover for the year, including the Group share of joint
ventures, was  231.9 million (2002:  224.8 million).
Turnover of Cape Industrial Services (CIS  - the sole
operating business of the Group) including its share of
the turnover of joint ventures increased by 19.1% to
 228.3 million (2002:  191.7 million).
Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation 
was  5.5 million (2002:  14.6 million). Group operating
profit from continuing operations, including its share 
of continuing joint ventures, for the year was  3.5 million
(2002:  15.6 million). Group operating profit from
continuing operations, before compensation for industrial
disease costs of  3.8 million (2002: credit of  10.1
million), increased by 32.7% to  7.3 million 
(2002:  5.5 million).
Y ear end net debt was  5.4 million, an improvement 
of  13.9 million from the prior year figure of  19.3 million.
Shareholders' funds increased from  24.1 million to 
 29.7 million.
A dividend is not being proposed.
Restructuring 
Following the sale of Cape Calsil Systems (CCS ), the
Group's loss making manufacturing business unit, to
Promat in August 2002, the following major events took
place in 2003 as part of the Group's restructuring:
1. The claim made on behalf of 7,500 South African
mineworkers for asbestos related diseases was settled,
without admission of liability , to the satisfaction of all
parties, bringing to an end a costly and time
consuming dispute.
2. The Group Head Office in Uxbridge was closed, and
its functions downsized and transferred to the CIS
Head Office, which relocated to purpose built
premises in Wakefield.
3. The sale of the remaining stock of CCS to Promat, the
purchaser of the business, as provided for in the sale
agreement was completed.
4. The sale of the former CCS manufacturing site and
redundant plant and machinery at Caerphilly realised
a consideration of  1.4 million and resulted in a profit
of  0.7 million over book value.
5. The sale of the former CCS manufacturing site and
redundant plant at Uxbridge realised a consideration
of  10.0 million and resulted in a profit of  1.7 million
over book value.
Chairman's statement
and review
The Group has continued to
make strong and sustainable
progress over the second 
half of 2003 
The operating profit of CIS,
including its share of JVs and
before head office costs and
compensation for industrial
disease costs, increased by
8.7% to  10.0 million
CIS experienced increased
demand for its services in
virtually all the regions in
which the business operates Cape PLC 
Annual report 2003
05
6. Contracts have been exchanged to sell the former
CCS manufacturing site at Washington; consequently
the  0.9 million impairment provision made in 2001 
has been released this year. Completion took place at
the end of March 2004 and resulted in a profit 
of  0.1 million over book value.
7. Cape PLC and certain of its subsidiaries concluded 
an agreement with Chester Street Insurance Holdings
(formerly Iron Trades Holdings Ltd) and other Iron
Trades Policy holders that limits the level of
contributions to be made by the Group towards
current and future shipyard claims brought against 
it by the parties to the agreement.
Financing
In March 2003, the Group reached an agreement with 
its bankers to put in place long-term borrowing facilities.
The terms of these facilities reflected the difficult financial
circumstances of the Group at that time, when much of
the restructuring referred to above had yet to be
completed. In the light of the progress made over the 
first half and given the considerable improvement in the
Group's outlook, in August 2003 your Board took the
opportunity to negotiate improved facilities with Barclays
Bank PLC. The Group has had a long-standing
relationship with Barclays and entered into arrangements
that will run for three years from August 2003.
Group Results
Results for the year and comparatives for the prior year
are summarised in the table below:
2003 2002
 m  m
Profit on ordinary activities before interest:
continuing operations (1) 3.5 15.6
Adjusted for Compensation for 
industrial disease (2) 3.8 (10.1)
Profit from Continuing operations, 
excluding compensation for 
industrial disease 7.3 5.5
Compensation for industrial disease (2) (3.8) 10.1
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before 
interest: discontinued operations (1) 2.5 (1.6)
Net interest payable (1) (1.4) (1.7)
Other finance income (1) 0.9 2.3
Profit on ordinary activities 
before taxation (1) 5.5 14.6
Source 
(1) Consolidated profit and loss account 
(2) Notes to the accounts, Note 1. Segmental analysis 
(a) Business analysis
Cape Industrial Services
Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures
for the year was  4.3 million (2002:  17.3 million).
The operating profit of CIS, including its share of joint
ventures, increased by 8.7% to  10.0 million 
(2002:  9.2 million). The operating profit of CIS is before
head office costs of  2.7 million (2002:  3.7 million) and
compensation for industrial disease costs of  3.8 million
(2002: credit of  10.1 million).
2003 2002
 m  m
Turnover * 228.3 191.7
Operating Profit * 10.0 9.2
* Including share of continuing joint ventures 
Y ear on year, turnover increased by 19.1% whilst
operating profit improved by 8.7%. CIS experienced
increased demand for its services in virtually all the
regions in which the business operates. A more
challenging operating environment resulted in a slight
deterioration in margins largely driven by an increase 
in insurance premiums. The Board is actively reviewing
options to minimise insurance costs going forward.
During 2003 a number of new contracts were won in the
UK. The offshore business is providing a range of services
on the Golden Eye project at St Fergus and Mossmorran.
Two three year maintenance contracts were awarded,
the first to provide industrial cleaning services to a large
industrial group at their Trafford Park and Tilbury sites
and the second to provide scaffolding and access
equipment forRWE InnogyPLCat Didcot A Power Station.
Outside Europe, CIS has won a number of major projects
including work on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plants at
Damietta for the Damietta LNG Construction Company
LLC (a joint venture between MW Kellogg, Japanese Gas
Corporation and Tecnicas Reunidas) in Egypt and at Sur,
Oman for Chiyoda Foster Wheeler & Co LLC.
CIS is a market leader in cryogenic insulation and related
services for the LNG market in the Middle East. The
market for LNG is expected to grow at around 12% per
annum. The Board believes that CIS is well positioned 
to benefit from this increase in demand, worldwide, for its
services given its existing expertise, client relationships
and health, safety and environmental performance. The
Group recently received an award for completion of
more than 5 million man hours of work without a lost time
accident on an LNG plant in Bintulu, Malaysia. 06
Cape PLC 
Annual report 2003
Surplus Properties
The Group owns the freehold of two properties that are
surplus to requirements following the sale of CCS. They
comprise a seven acre former manufacturing site at
Chesham in Surrey and a 120 acre brown field site in
Uxbridge which is located between the M40 and the 
M4 and immediately adjacent to the M25. The Group 
is considering its options for these sites. Any cash
generated from the disposal of these non-core assets 
will be used to finance further growth in the business
either organically or through the acquisition of
complementary businesses.
Industrial Disease
The Group has received, and continues to receive,
claims arising from historical asbestos related activities.
On the basis of the information presently available, it is
not possible for the Directors to quantify , with sufficient
reliability , the amount required to settle future claims,
and accordingly claims are accounted for on the basis 
of claims lodged and settlements reached. Given the
outlook for the Group and assuming that future
settlements broadly follow recent history , the Directors
anticipate that future claims, to the extent not matched 
by insurance recoveries, can be met from operating 
cash flows.
The Board adopts a responsible attitude in dealing with
claims received. All claims are dealt with on their merits
and in a timely manner. The Group has recently invested
in and established a purpose built in-house archive
facility to aid the effective management of claims.
The Board is presently reviewing the options available for
the long term funding of industrial disease claims.
Chairman's statement
and review continued
Activity levels across all 
areas of the business were
particularly strong over the 
final quarter of 2003 and these
have continued into 2004 
The Board is confident that the
Group will continue to make
good progress
On behalf of the Board I would
like to take this opportunity 
to thank the management 
and employees of the Group
worldwide for their commitment
and support during 2003 Cape PLC 
Annual report 2003
The Board
During the year there have been a number of changes 
to the Board. On 24 June I was appointed as Chairman and
Mike Reynolds was appointed Group Finance Director.
Mike Reynolds replaces Ian Widdowson, who resigned
from the Board on that day . Ian was with the Group for 
11 years and had been Group Finance Director for five
years. I would like to thank Ian on behalf of the Board for
his full contribution to the Group and in particular for his
participation in the successful restructuring.
Strategic Review
The Board recently completed a strategic review of the
CIS business. The review confirmed that the Group, post
the restructuring I refer to above, has a great opportunity
to do more things in more places and build long-term
value for our shareholders. Consequently the Board has
set the following objectives:-
 
To become the recognised expert and leader in
each of our chosen markets
 
To re-inforce, develop and build upon existing
relationships with clients 
 
To increase leverage from our safety proposition
and continue to set challenging safety standards
across all areas of the business 
 
To extend the service offering to all clients and
broaden the range of services offered
 
To build value for shareholders through
improving its return on managed assets 
Our People
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity
to thank the management and employees of the Group
worldwide for their commitment and support during 2003.
Trading Outlook
Activity levels across all areas of the business were
particularly strong over the final quarter of 2003 and
these have continued into 2004. In light of the outcome 
of the strategic review and the activity levels during 2003,
the Board is confident that the Group will continue to
make good progress in the current year and beyond.
Martin K May
Chairman 
07