  1 
 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                       
AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
 
Overview  
The year ended 31 December 2010 was a challenging one for the Group and particularly for the UK 
operations which were severely affected by the uncertainty surrounding changes to regulations for 
student visas. In Asia, the picture was different and while there have also been major regulatory 
changes in the private education markets in Singapore and Malaysia, resulting in additional one-off 
costs in the year, these changes have presented further opportunities. We expect AEC s position to 
strengthen in these important markets as a result.  
 
Underlying trading results for 2010 are in line with revised market expectations and reflect the 
challenges we have faced in the year, with the Group reporting an underlying loss before tax 
(excluding the cost of share options) of  221,583 on revenues of  18.1m.  We took decisive action 
in the UK to reduce the cost base and to reposition the business in the light of the forthcoming 
changes to overseas student visas. This should see the UK deliver a significantly improved 
performance in 2011 although clearly some uncertainty still remains until we see the trading 
situation normalise. In Asia, our operations in Singapore and Malaysia should see the benefits of 
their new high level accreditations and we expect the private education market in both countries to 
consolidate as a result of government regulation. We also expect our English Language provision in 
our Asian markets to gain from the unrolling of the Malvern House brand and model across all our 
centres.  
 
Financially, the Group position remains strong.  Cash at the year end stood at  3.09m (2009:  3.22m) 
and this, together our enhanced banking facilities, will support our expected return to profitability in 
2011.  
 
Financial results 
 
Revenues for the year to 31 December 2010 rose by 43% to  18.1m (2009:  12.6m).  This increase 
largely reflects the benefits of a full year s contribution from acquisitions, principally Malvern 
House, which was purchased in July 2009.  The underlying pre-tax loss for the year, excluding the 
cost of share options, was  221,583 (2009: profit of  1.08m). Including the cost of share options 
granted to management and staff of  217,026, the statutory loss before tax was  438,609. The loss 
after tax was  289,886 (2009: profit of  0.89m) and the loss per share was 0.85p (2009: earnings 
per share of 2.5p).   
 
The cash outflow from operating activities was  0.13m (2009: cash inflow of  2.62m). The actions 
to restructure the UK business, Malvern House, impacted our cash reserves by  0.92m.  
Nevertheless, net cash at the end of the year stood at a healthy  3.09m (2009:  3.22m). Continued 
organic growth, in what was a difficult year, combined with the opportunities we see in 2011, have 
given the Board the confidence to recommend a final and total dividend of 0.20p per ordinary share.  
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid in August 
2011 to shareholders on the register at 24 June 2011. The ex-dividend date is 22 June 2011.   2 
 
                           
                           AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
 
 
Business Development 
 
Whilst our UK business was adversely affected by the uncertainty surrounding student visa 
regulations, our Asian operations recorded growth in revenue ranging from 15% to 3% across its 
markets.     
 
The major highlight in the year for our flagship AEC College in Singapore was its award of the 
EduTrust Certificate for four years in September 2010 by the Council of Private Education in 
Singapore, making it one of the few private education institutions in Singapore to have gained this 
status. We expect it to have a material positive effect on our ability to recruit new students. There 
was some disruption to the Singapore marketplace while the new regulations were being developed 
and introduced by the Government but as 2010 closed, student numbers were strong. The 
University of Wales, Newport (UK), Master of Business Administration and Bachelor programmes 
introduced last year performed extremely well, recording a 100% increase in student numbers albeit 
from a small base. Diploma and Advanced Diploma in Business programmes and the new 
Advanced Diploma in Business taught in Mandarin have also been very successful.   
  
However, we did see significant reductions in vocational programmes, especially in the Diploma in 
Interactive Media. The market in Singapore is beginning to show signs of  
consolidation and we expect to be able to gain significantly from this as we go through 2011 and 
2012. 
 
These accounts reflect the first full year contribution from Kasturi College in Malaysia, after we 
acquired the 70% balance of the business which we did not already own in October 2009. The 
business continued to grow strongly with volumes increasing by 9% over the last full year. Degree 
programmes have achieved robust growth and the College has now been expanded to three 
locations in Kuala Lumpur to meet the growing demand for these programmes. The College will 
continue to invest in marketing to recruit students in Northern Africa and the Middle East where 
demand has been high. It will also continue to raise the level of its programmes to prepare for the 
opportunities that are being granted to high performing education institutions in Malaysia to 
become  deemed  universities, with their own university campuses. 
 
The results also include the first full year contribution from Malvern House, our London based 
business. As previously stated, the UK Government s review of student visa regulations and the 
prolonged uncertainty surrounding further government action caused significant disruption and the 
business recorded a pre-tax loss for the year of  603,000. A trend for students to book shorter 
English Language courses became increasingly evident over the year and the average number of 
course weeks per student reduced from 15 weeks to 11.5 weeks. This switch to shorter courses 
looks, for the time being, to be firmly established and we are not anticipating a material 
improvement in 2011. In reacting to the changes in trading conditions, we have significantly 
realigned capacity and overheads in London. These actions should provide a platform for Malvern    3 
 
                        AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
 
House to return to sustainable profitability and we expect the business to contribute profitably to 
first half results in the current financial year.    
 
During the year, we continued with our strategy to unroll the Malvern House brand and model 
across our Asian centres which teach English Language. The existing English Language centres in 
Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam have now all been rebranded and their methodology and 
approach to teaching English Language now conforms to the Malvern House model. The expansion 
of the Malvern House brand, combined with the changes already made in the UK, gives us 
confidence that we will now begin to see a favourable return from our investment in the UK.  
 
Educational Resources Ltd (ER ), the Group s London Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
(LCCI ) examinations subsidiary, continued its programme of investment during the year. We 
added additional marketing and management resources to our operations in Hong Kong in order to 
develop new market segments as the changes to the schools syllabus impact and in Kuala Lumpur, 
we created a new Market Intelligence unit to support growth initiatives. Despite the decrease in 
ER s overall revenues of 2%, gross profit increased by 10% year on year and the certification 
numbers grew by 3%. Within the overall revenue result, we saw a decrease in contribution from 
Hong Kong because of changes in the schools system but all our other LCCI markets performed 
well. New agreements with universities in Asia to accept Level 3 LCCI students into the first year 
of Business, Accounting and Finance courses, along with new initiatives in India, will provide ER 
with additional opportunities going forward.  
 
 
Staff  
 
2010 has been a particularly difficult year, with significant change having to be managed 
effectively. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all staff for their hard work and efforts 
during the period.  It was especially encouraging to see the positive attitude that has been apparent 
as we have implemented the necessary changes to ensure the Group returns to sustainable profit 
growth.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
   4 
 
                       AEC EDUCATION PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT  
 
 
 
Prospects 
 
During 2010, the Board was focused on managing both the challenges and opportunities in our 
various markets, and on ensuring that, where necessary, we adapted our model to create the 
appropriate platform for growth. We believe we are now almost at the end of that programme and 
that we will see a turnaround in our performance in 2011.  
 
We have the resources and cash balances to support the growth of our existing operations and are 
also returning to our strategy to acquire businesses, with a focus on growth in Asia. We are also 
continuing with the search for suitable university partners in the UK and hope to be in a position to 
report more fully on this towards the end of 2011. 
 
 
With strong cash balances, AEC is well placed to continue its development and the Board remains 
confident that the Group will return to profitability in 2011.   
  
                
                          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liam Swords 
Chairman    
 
23 May 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 