  In 2002, Aegis grew profit and revenue
and took market share from its rivals in
challenging trading conditions.Revenue
growth was particularly strong in
specialised media, communication services
and market research, reflecting earlier
investment and operational improvement.'
2002 Change % 2001
REVENUE         591.9m 11.9%  529.0m
GROSS MARGIN 8.3% n/a 7.6%
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX*  71.4m 12.8%  63.3m
UNDERLYING BASIC EPS* 4.4p 15.8% 3.8p
DIVIDEND 1.25p 4.2% 1.2p
*Underlying results exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
2 Lord Sharman, Chairman Dear Shareholder
2002 saw a second year of global recession in 
the advertising market. In the US, the market 
decline levelled out in the third quarter of 2002 
and has subsequently shown signs of recovery. 
These depressed market conditions were largely as 
the Group had forecast but it is pleasing to note that
our business continued to win substantial new
business and grow revenues.
Revenue was up 11.9% to  591.9 million (2001:  529.0
million). Taking out the effect of acquisitions, organic
revenue growth was 3.4%. Gross margin improved to
8.3% (2001: 7.6%) reflecting the increasing mix of
higher margin services that we can provide. Underlying
profit before tax was up 12.8% to  71.4 million (2001:
 63.3 million) before exceptional items of  13.5 million
(2001:  18.6 million). Underlying diluted EPS increased
to 4.3p (2001: 3.8p). The Board is recommending a
final dividend of 0.75p per ordinary share, making
1.25p per ordinary share for the full year.
Our financial results demonstrate a marked
improvement in the performance of Aegis and reflect
management's efforts to both improve revenue
generation and run our worldwide operations 
more efficiently.
In the past 4 years we have seen our business
transform from a European media agency into twin
global media and market research networks. In Carat
we have one of the largest and most respected media
services companies in the world whilst Synovate is an
exciting new global research brand with operations in
46 countries and growing.
We have built these networks prudently both through
internal investment and a buy-and-build approach and
we are developing them into truly outstanding global
networks with integrated portfolios of first class
products and services.
The Group continued to make acquisitions in 2002
that were carefully targeted to meet our strategic
objectives. They were aimed at entering new
geographic markets in research or media; they added
to the development of communication services in
established markets; or they extended our capability 
in specialist media. We are conscious that such
acquisitions should be the right fit for our business
and we apply careful thought to their evaluation,
management and integration.
With the Group's continuing expansion, aligning
employees to our goals and aspirations is imperative.
In September, we launched our Vision & Values
programme which communicated these objectives 
to staff worldwide and prescribed a way of working
that will help us to attain our goals.
Developing a consistent global approach to business
means that we pay attention to the transfer of best
practice around the Group both operationally and in
areas such as commercial engagement, client service,
products and solutions. These efforts are commercially
sound. They will have the effect of improving client
retention and profitability and reducing costs.
If one looks at the skills required to run an effective
advertising campaign, media planning and market
research provide the key to understanding what
motivates consumers and how to effectively target
them. These two areas rely on sophisticated tools 
and processes to provide clients with an objective
assessment of how to get the best bang from their
marketing buck. At a time when marketers are under
increasing pressure to provide real and measurable
results from their marketing spend, these skills are
increasingly in demand. 
The Group's strategy, therefore, is to build
highly valuable businesses with leading
positions in media and market research and to
this end we are making good progress.
Although these businesses answer different
marketing questions we are now seeing
benefits from the two businesses working more
closely together. This is apparent on projects
demanding ever-higher accuracy in identifying
and targeting consumers. We are now
developing integrated products and solutions
that will extend this capability. 
During the year, Carat extended its service
offering into related areas such as sponsorship,
direct marketing, PR and market modelling. 
We operate these services within the media
business as we believe that a holistic approach
provides more opportunity to market multiple
services to clients whilst providing them with
greater accountability and control over their
marketing spend.
Letter to Shareholders
3
Doug Flynn, Chief Executive Officer We also believe that there are
opportunities to enhance further
the level of service to clients by
providing global specialist media
capabilities in both outdoor and
interactive media. These two areas,
communication services and
specialist media, represent a
significant and growing share of
our media revenue. 
Although our global media
business had to endure a second
year of tough markets, we entered
2002 in the knowledge that it
would be a difficult year. Indeed,
the quiet global media market saw
the number of new business
pitches down by around 30%.
Carat Europe spent much of the
year operating in a market in
recession. Given the difficult
business backdrop our management
throughout the European operations
did an outstanding job. Carat US
delivered a strong new business
performance and, as a result of
restructuring, delivered a sharp
improvement in profitability. In Asia
Pacific we saw our nascent
operation grow from strength to
strength with an excellent tally of
new business wins.
In addition to the Carat network,
the Group has a significant number
of strong regional media
operations. In March 2003 we
announced our intention to bring
these together, by the third quarter
of 2003, under the Vizeum brand,
to form a new media network.
Recent media industry
consolidation has led to 
a market comprising relatively few
large media agencies and it is our
belief that this has resulted in a
lack of choice for marketers. 
Other than Carat there are now no
independent international media
agencies. Vizeum will provide
marketers an opportunity to work
with a new independent media
network with access to world-class
systems and the negotiating power
of the Aegis Group. We are
confident that this will improve
revenue growth and lead to higher
shareholder value.
The research side of our business
made good progress on all fronts
against a large and difficult agenda.
Its management were tasked with
integrating a disparate group of
newly acquired research companies;
developing a suite of proprietary
research solutions; creating a
global capability to service
international clients; developing
specialist capabilities in selected
industry sectors and driving up
revenue and profitability. 
Against that agenda the management
team made good progress: the
development and global rollout of
a number of key proprietary
solutions was completed; a
regional and global management
structure was put in place;
integration of new businesses was
progressed at several levels; new
geographic markets were entered
and good progress in the
development of healthcare and
automotive research was made. 
In addition they developed new
business areas, closely linked to
 2002 saw a slight easing
of the difficult market
conditions that we
experienced in 2001. 
Our planning for 2003
has been built around
further gradual market
improvement and we
expect to see further
progress and a
satisfactory year for the
Group in 2003.'
Letter to Shareholders
4 the core research capability
including expert panels, CRM
management, business intelligence,
forecasting, mystery shopping and
call centre monitoring. Most
importantly our research division
was consolidated under a new
global brand name, Synovate, 
in January 2003. 
The financial performance of the
research business improved,
particularly in the second half of
the year. Although there is still
much to be done to achieve an
acceptable return on the funds
employed in research, the Board is
confident that it has established a
long term, growing and satisfactory
business asset. 
The current network size and
capability means that major
international clients can now begin
to be serviced competitively,
however, the Group still expects to
make further research acquisitions
in 2003.
2002 demonstrated the relative
resilience of our business models -
the mostly commission based
media business and the mostly
project based custom market
research business. Both businesses
were hit early in the downturn but
both now appear to be recovering
well. The second half of 2002 saw
new bookings in research rising
and we would expect the research
market to show modest
improvement in 2003. 
The prospects for the business in
2003 will inevitably be affected by
market forces. For 2002 our
financial planning assumed that the
global adspend market would be
flat and our assumption proved
broadly correct. Our planning for
2003 has been built around some
gradual improvement in global
adspend levels that are likely 
to return to positive growth of
around 3.1%. 
The actions that we have taken and
our ability to win new business and
grow revenues lead us to be
positive about the prospects for
the company. Staff throughout the
Group responded well to the last
two difficult years and the support
and cooperation between the
businesses has been outstanding.
We thank them for their effort 
and commitment. 
Lord Sharman
Chairman
Doug Flynn
Chief Executive Officer
5