 2
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Chairman' s statement
The Group has recorded another record full year profit and has made
significant progress both in the core UK and Republic of Ireland business
as well as the Benelux business acquired some 18 months ago.
The Group recorded an underlying operating profit (pre exceptional
costs and goodwill amortisation) after interest of  65.0 million, an increase 
of 23.4% compared to last year*. The Group' s profit on ordinary activities
before taxation increased by 33.3%* to  67.1 million inclusive of the 
 0.9 million goodwill amortisation.
The Group' s underlying earnings per share (basic earnings per share 
pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation) increased by 26.1%* to
70.1p. Basic earnings per share increased by 37.3%* to 68.8p.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative and during the
year achieved an operating cash flow of  91.5 million. The net debt at the 
year-end was  30.0 million, an improvement of  3.8 million on last year . 
This was after funding a total of  41.1 million in share buybacks during 
the year .
The Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by
22.7% to 27.0p, which together with the interim dividend of 17.0p takes
the total dividend for the year to 44.0p per share, an increase of 18.9% 
on the prior year . The final dividend will be paid on 24 September 2004 
to shareholders on the register on 10 September 2004.
UK and Republic of Ireland
Results
The UK and Republic of Ireland business achieved another record
underlying operating profit (pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation)
of  64.8 million, an increase of 14.1% against the comparable 52 weeks
last year*. This included the  0.6 million loss from the acquisition of Carpet
Express. The business made a further  3.1 million on the disposal of 
fixed assets.
Sales for the year were  397.1 million, an increase of 4.7% against
the comparable 52 weeks last year*, with a like for like sales increase of
1.2%. The trading environment was difficult for floor coverings during the
year but once again the business managed to increase sales and market
share. We remain confident that our business proposition of offering the
widest range, best prices and excellent service will enable us to continue
to grow sales and market share in the future.
Gross margin, excluding Carpet Express, improved by 1.6
percentage points to 61.1% against the comparable 52 weeks last year*.
This growth was driven by a strong first half increase of 2.9 percentage
points reflecting the full year effect of our in house cutting operation, 
our 5 metre warehouse, and buying scale from Group sourcing. 
The second half gross margin was up 0.2 percentage points on last 
year in line with expectations. We expect to continue to improve gross
margin going forward primarily through further in-house efficiencies 
and buying scale.
Costs as a percentage of sales, excluding Carpet Express, were
44.8%, a reduction of 0.1 percentage points against the comparable 
52 weeks last year*. This reflects the cost reduction programme put into
place during the second half of last year . The rollout of the In House
Carpets concessions within the Allders department stores had a small
adverse impact on the costs to sales ratio; we expect this will continue
into the current year .
Operations
We have seen another year of development to our portfolio of stores 
as well as further improvement of our offer during the year .
We ended the year with an additional 13 Carpetright stores giving 
a total of 364 stores trading from approximately 3,488,000 sq.ft. Many 
of the new openings were in our new small store format in smaller towns. 
These stores enable us to trade in areas dominated by the independents
and where up to now Carpetright has been under-represented.
We achieved another record
profit performance for the 
Group with continued strong
cash flows and a dividend
increase of 18.9%. 
Lord Harris Chairman 3
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004
We successfully completed the rollout of In House Carpets departments
to a total of 38 Allders stores. These flooring departments average 
1,600 sq.ft and sell a wide range of carpet, laminate and vinyl to Allders'
customers providing both excellent value and a strong focus on service 
as a critical part of the offer . The rollout has enabled us to reach a new
market sector not currently served by the Group.
Our Carpetright at home business has continued to show good sales
and profit growth during the year . The van fleet has been expanded to 40
and we can now provide coverage for all areas of the country .
Inside our stores there has also been significant improvement. 
During the year we completed the rollout of a full laminate offer as well 
as further improvements to our vinyl offer and merchandising. Sales of
laminate during the second half were more than double the previous 
year as the appeal of our wide range, good prices and excellent service
provided a compelling offer to the customer . Carpet sales have grown
strongly in the second half of the year after what had been a difficult first
half trading period.
Our programme to assess and train floor covering fitters, run in
association with the Flooring Industry T raining Association (FITA ), has
also progressed well over the year . At the year-end we had assessed 
over 700 fitters, with over 60% of our regions complete.
Carpet Express
As previously announced, on 11 March 2004 Carpetright entered into 
an arrangement with Associated Weavers International (AWI) to purchase
from the receiver the assets and operations of Carpet Express Limited.
Carpet Express operates a nationwide carpet distribution service 
and counts both Carpetright and AWI amongst its many customers. 
We are working with AWI to improve the operations and have
commenced a review of the longer term requirements which we 
should have completed by the end of the first half.
Benelux
Results
The Benelux business recorded its first underlying operating profit 
(pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation) of  1.8 million for the
year to 30 April 2004 compared to a  2.9 million loss for the 10 months 
to 30 April 2003. 
Sales in both Holland and Belgium have continued to improve
throughout the year . The offer has been tailored differently for each country
and then as required to specific geographical areas within those countries.
The range has been expanded to give us the authority as the floor covering
specialist and our market leading price position has been further improved.
As a result of this action, sales were broadly level on a comparable basis for
the year despite trading from five fewer stores during that time. With both
markets down on last year this resulted in an improvement in the market
share for both the Dutch and Belgian operations. We believe that with the
platform now in place in both countries and our better understanding of the
local requirements there is significant opportunity to grow market share over
the short and medium term.
Gross margin has continued to improve as the benefits of Group sourcing,
supply chain efficiency and more effective promotions take effect. The
product margin for the year improved to 53.5% a full 7.1 percentage points
above the comparable period last year . There is scope for further margin
growth both from internal efficiency and improved sourcing over 
the medium term.
Costs continue to benefit from the action initiated during the second
half of last year and then completed in the first half of this financial year .
Costs as a percentage of sales have reduced to 45.7%, a 2.4 percentage
point reduction on last year .
Operations
We closed the year with 88 stores trading, having closed three stores during
the year and opened one. The business was trading from 60 stores in
Holland and 28 stores in Belgium at the year -end with a combined trading
space of 1,158,000 sq.ft. We completed our first new store opening at
V enlo, Holland, during March and the second new store at Deventer ,
Holland, opened just after the year -end. Our medium term target is to
achieve 100 plus stores across Holland and Belgium.
We have continued to sublet excess trading space to complementary
retailers during the year . We had completed five such sublets by the 
year-end and a further three were completed in May and June.
Whilst we are still only 18 months into our first acquisition into
mainland Europe we believe we have established the foundations of 
a good long-term business.
Group
Board
The Group announced on 1 June 2004 that Mr Simon Metcalf had 
joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director . Sir Harry Djanogly has
confirmed his intention to stand down from the Board in spring 2005
having served on the Board since the Group' s flotation in 1993. 
The Group has started a process to recruit a further Non-Executive
Director to replace Sir Harry in line with this timetable. Baroness Noakes
has assumed the role of Senior Independent Director with effect from 
29 June 2004.
Incentives
The Group intends to launch a new Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP ) 
from the start of the current financial year . This L TIP would reward within 
a range from above average to excellent performance an allocation of 
up to 40% of annual salary in shares, which would be purchased in the
market. The L TIP is applicable to the Executive Directors as well as up to
20 of the Group' s senior managers and full details are provided within the
Annual Report for proposal to the shareholders.
The Group is also requesting approval from shareholders to launch 
a new savings related share option scheme for all employees. This will
enable eligible employees to save up to  250 per month for the purchase
of the Group' s shares on favourable terms.
Once again I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff for all
their hard work over the past year . Their skills, experience, dedication and
hard work continue to enable us to grow the business and maintain our
position at the forefront of carpets and floorings retailing.
Lord Harris of Peckham
Chairman
*Last year has been restated to reflect the implementation of FRS5 Application Note G.