  OUR FIRST FULL YEAR 
AS A PUBLIC COMPANY HAS
LAID THE FOUNDATIONS 
FOR A PROFITABLE, 
CASH GENERATIVE AND 
EXCITING FUTURE'
STRATEGIC OVERVIEW
2005 was an excellent year for Cello. During our first full year
as a public company we have delivered a profit before tax of
 4.2m on turnover of  52.1m and gross profits of  26.6m.
This has resulted in basic earnings per share of 9.83p. All
three of our platforms experienced above industry average
growth in revenues and profits and have returned highly
competitive profit margin levels. 
The monies raised at our AIM listing in November 2004,
together with strong operational cash generation, have
enabled us to complete six transactions in 2005 whilst
maintaining a strong balance sheet. Net cash stood at  1.9m
at the year end. 
The Board is not recommending a dividend payment in respect
of 2005 but plans to commence dividend payments in respect
of the year ending 31 December 2006. 
When we launched Cello in November 2004, we laid out a set
of clear strategic objectives for the Group in 2005 and
beyond. These were:
  focusing single mindedly on three areas of the marketing
services mix where we could achieve leadership 
and secure above market average growth rates and 
profit levels; 
  ensuring that profit, cash flow and earnings per share
reflected the benefits of tight integration and the earnings
enhancing nature of acquisitions; and 
  a prudent approach to funding. 
I believe that we have delivered on our promises.
OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT
The six transactions completed in 2005 (Leapfrog, RS
Consulting, The Value Engineers, and TMI, in addition to the
smaller Oomph and FML) have all been integrated into Cello's
platform structure. This has meant that despite the high level
of growth, the Group has remained extremely focused. 
Each platform has a fully empowered Board which has
representation from each of the underlying businesses. This
ensures that we essentially have three decision making units
responsible for growth and profitability. As a consequence, we
have experienced virtually no post-acquisition integration
issues. The professional chemistry is extremely good. 
The quality of the management Boards of the three platforms
and the professionals driving the underlying businesses is first
class. As fellow Shareholders in Cello and like minded people,
there is a satisfying cohesiveness to the motivation and values
of the Group. This positions us well to accommodate further
growth, both organically and by acquisition in 2006 and
beyond. Joint pitching and referred work within the three
platforms has already established itself as an important
source of accelerated organic growth and promises to deliver
more in 2006 and thereafter.
Kevin Steeds
Chairman
Chairman's Statement
4 Cello Group plc Annual Report 2005 Chairman's Statement
In line with our stated plan, the Board has been strengthened
with the addition of Mark Bentley as Group finance director in
May and Allan Rich as a non-executive director in June. Both
bring additional expertise and relevant industry experience to
the senior management team. This has enabled Mark Scott
and I to focus more time on reinforcing the structure and
working with them on the growth plans, particularly as the
international revenue contribution of the Group expands.
Across the Group, I am enormously proud of the professional
qualities, hard work and dedication of all of our staff and would
very much like to thank them on behalf of the Board and
Shareholders for all their efforts this year.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group's results are based on a full 12 months
contribution from the four businesses acquired in late 2004,
all of which delivered good organic growth, together with
contributions from the companies acquired during the year;
Leapfrog and The Value Engineers (six months); RS
Consulting (five months); FML (one month). TMI, which joined
in late December, did not contribute to the profit for the year.
Comparative figures for 2004 represent only two months
trading from the original three trading subsidiaries. Turnover
was up from  9.4m to  52.1m, including  9.7m from
overseas work. Gross profits increased from  3.9m to
 26.6m and profit before tax was up from  1.3m to  4.2m.
Profit margins (excluding central costs) for the three platforms
were 19.2% compared to 36.2% in 2004. The prior year
margin was abnormally high due to the very short reporting
period and the very marked seasonality of Target, one of the
original operating companies. The Group's effective tax charge
was 31% (2004: 34%) and is likely to remain approximately at
that level given the current domicile and mix of businesses.
Basic earnings per share were 9.83p and diluted earnings per
share were 7.90p. Due to the two month trading period in
2004, and the seasonal nature of profit in that short period,
basic earnings per share of 15.06p and diluted earnings per
share of 7.23p are not useful comparators with 2005. The
Directors review and revise expectations of deferred
consideration payments under earn outs on an annual basis,
5 6
Chairman's Statement
this impacts on diluted earnings per share. Revisions this year
have reduced estimates of deferred consideration by  3m.
The operating profit to cash flow conversion rate of 143% for
the year is exceptional, as a target range for our industry is
usually up to 105%. This excellent performance is primarily as
a result of changes in working capital management
implemented in certain subsidiaries during the year and strong
local and central financial controls. Net cash at 
31 December 2005 was  1.9m.
PLATFORM REVIEW
Cello Planning and Research has had an excellent year, 
both in terms of revenue and profit growth. The original
founding member, Insight, our healthcare market research
subsidiary, was joined in July by Leapfrog, a qualitative
consumer research business, and in August by RS Consulting,
a quantitative business-to-business group. With only a partial
contribution from the two latter companies, the platform
achieved pre-tax profits of  2.0m on turnover of  15.6m 
and gross profits of  9.3m. It employed approximately 
180 people at year end. 
Our planning and research Group is well positioned to become
a leading contender in its specialist areas. The combined client
roster and shared reputation for quality are truly outstanding.
With approximately a third of revenues coming from overseas
work, we are well positioned for further expansion both in the
UK and in selected international locations. 
Cello Brand Consulting has had an equally successful year. Our
initial platform company, Leith, was joined by The Value
Engineers, a brand and marketing consultancy, in August and
by TMI, a training advisory consultancy, in late December. With
a partial contribution from the two recent additions, 
the platform delivered pre-tax profits of  1.6m on turnover 
of  14.4m and gross profits of  8.3m. It employed
approximately 150 people at year end. 
The mission of becoming a leading advisor to senior clients
on marketing and branding issues is now within reach. The
mix of international work is increasing rapidly from its current
19% of revenues.
Cello Response has had a good first full year of operation, with
Target and Navigator, our direct marketing and database
businesses, joining as founders in 2004. The platform delivered 7
Chairman's Statement
All three platforms continue to win an increasing proportion of
revenues from overseas clients. Insight has continued to
invest in its US office which was established as a 
start-up towards the end of 2004 and has now moved into
profit. In March 2006, Insight opened an office in Basel. 
We intend to explore opportunities to establish shared
international facilities through a mix of organic start-up and
local hiring of key executives and professional teams.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Our first full year as a quoted company has been highly
encouraging. We started 2006 with momentum, focus and
determination; a healthy level of revenue visibility across the
Group and a strong balance sheet with  1.9m of net cash.
This will enable us to invest with confidence in our existing
businesses to accelerate their growth as well as complete 
a small number of strategic acquisitions that will further
enhance Cello.
Kevin Steeds
Chairman
13 March 2006
pre-tax profits of  1.5m on a turnover of  22.1m and gross
profits of  9m. It employed approximately 120 people at 
year end. 
The platform had a very successful year of organic growth,
significantly developing many of our existing accounts as 
well as a number of new major account wins. This level 
of success has been shared by its subsidiaries, Talking
Numbers and Target Direct Print, and has also led to the
successful start-up of Target Direct Scotland. The platform has
continued to develop its digital marketing offer, reinforcing the
existing on-line and digital capabilities in both Target and
Navigator with the launch of Oomph, a specialist advisory firm.
GROWTH PRIORITIES
The Group's growth priorities are all focused on fulfilling the
ambitions of the three platforms. Most notably, we intend 
to reinforce the planning and consulting capability of Cello
Planning and Research, which will complement our existing
research capability.
We intend to bring Cello Response into the London market, with
a physical presence in the Capital to complement its presence
in Cheltenham and Edinburgh. We also intend to add further to
the advisory capabilities of Cello Brand Consulting. 