 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN GOLD
Annual report 2006
Dear shareholder
It is with great pleasure that I report to you for the first
time as the Chairman and CEO of Central African 
Gold (CAG) on the progress that we have made during
2006. It has been a landmark year that has seen us grow
from a cash shell into a company of substance.We have
taken our first steps towards achieving our goal of
becoming a mid-tier producing company with a world-
class exploration portfolio. In time, I believe that 2006
will be seen as the year that we built a solid foundation
for the construction of our company.
Change and progress
I would like to cover two main areas of significant
change and progress:
 
Any company is only as good as its people and,
during 2006, we have put in place a knowledgeable
and experienced team, with an excellent balance of
exploration, mining, engineering, financial and
management competence.What makes us unique,
I believe, is that for a company of our size and
positioning, we have an unrivalled technical skills base
supported by in-the-field and on-the-ground know-
how.We are also able to use proprietary in-house
software applications and expertise that result in
rapid, high-level targeting of opportunities and the
expeditious interpretation of data, thus significantly
shortening the exploration pipeline. CAG prides
itself in taking science into the field through practical
application. In the highly competitive environment of
the current exploration and mining market, skills are
in short supply and we are fortunate indeed to have
attracted a solid group of professionals.
 
From an operational and projects point of view, the
year has been momentous. At the beginning of
2006, CAG had in its portfolio a number of
exploration properties in Mali and Botswana on
which little progress had been made. By the end of
the financial year, we are able to report the
conclusion of the acquisition of a producing asset,
the Bibiani gold mine, and approval to transfer
prospecting licences in Ghana; the initiation of the
exploration programme at the Medinandi prospect
in west Mali; and the regional data interrogation and
field validation of the balance of the Mali and
Botswana portfolios. Post year-end, we have added
to our initial production base through the purchase
of controlling interests in Falcon and Olympus gold
mines in Zimbabwe.
Investor confidence
Our shareholders - existing and new - have continued
to display confidence in CAG.Two well-subscribed share
placements on London's AIM market, in April and
December, have reflected the market's belief in our
progress and supported our growth strategy at a time
when the market was less generous than it had been for
some time. Most importantly, our market successes have
enabled the purchase of the Bibiani gold mine, which we
believe is both an undervalued and underperforming
asset that we can turn to significant account over the
next two years.
Adding value to Bibiani
Reflecting on the acquisition of Bibiani gold mine, we have
taken on this mine with a view to turning an operation
Letter to shareholders
CEO, Greg Hunter
CAG AR 15May07AF  5/16/07  12:59 PM  Page 5 currently set to produce 50,000 ounces in FY2007,
predominantly from tailings, into a substantial underground
operation with an annual production of at least 110,000
ounces by the end of 2008. We believe that geologically,
Bibiani gold mine has the right pedigree to deliver the
ounces required of a world-class orebody, situated as it is
on the Sefwi-Bibiani greenstone belt, host to 17 million
ounces of gold mineral resources. Bibiani gold mine has
produced some four million ounces to date.
The size and scale of the Bibiani gold mine fits very
comfortably into CAG's profile, far more so than into
that of a large mining group. Simply stated, we have the
time and resources to treat the mine as a major priority.
We have confidence that, by concertedly applying
innovative geological techniques and using our experience
with similar orebodies in Africa, we can generate a better
understanding of the Bibiani orebody and employ
appropriate and cost-effective mining methods.
Our approach seeks to remodel, drill and sample the
Bibiani orebody to:
 
increase the resource base and assist with the bulk
underground mining programme due to start in the
third quarter of 2007;
 
target immediate production of 40,000 ounces a year
from the re-treatment of tailings and 10,000 ounces
from the underground production for FY2007;
 
continue with the exploration on the mining lease
and prospecting licence; and
 
in particular, intensify our exploration efforts on
15 prioritised targets.We feel confident we can
expand on our current resource base of 
1.473 million ounces with continuing exploration
and development work. In the short space of time
we have owned the operations, we have seen the
gold inventory increase from 0.9 million ounces to
1.473 million ounces.
We are pleased both to have gained a foothold in
Ghana and with the reception we have had at all
levels.There is support for the mining industry in
government and financial circles, in addition to a 
well-educated workforce, making the country suitable
for investment.
Our next priority: Mali
Our second area of focus is Mali, boasting some of the
lowest-cost gold mines in the world and currently lying
third on Africa's gold production list. Political stability has
brought opportunities on which we want to capitalise.
The establishment of two exploration companies,
entered into in 2006, gave us access to some
23 properties, six in west Mali and 17 in south Mali, a
substantial footprint in a prospective and investor-friendly
region. Phase 1 of a 15,000 metre reverse circulation
(RC) and diamond drilling (DD) programme has begun
on the Medinandi prospect in west Mali, with in excess
of 9,000 metres (end March 2007) of RC drilling
completed to date. Encouraging mineralisation has been
encountered; we await the assay results and it is
anticipated that an interim resource statement on this
property will be released during the second quarter of
2007. Good progress has been made on the balance of
the portfolio in terms of regional data interrogation and
field validation, with properties being aggressively
prioritised for follow-up exploration.
CENTRAL AFRICAN GOLD
Annual report 2006
6
Delivering on our promises
CAG AR 15May07AF  5/16/07  12:59 PM  Page 6 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN GOLD
Annual report 2006
Opportunity in Botswana
Our presence in Botswana on the Kraaipan greenstone
belt (extending from South Africa into southern
Botswana) arises from a 53% controlling stake in an
Australian-based exploration company which owns the
rights to an area covering 872km
2
of the north-west
extension of the Kraaipan belt. Airborne magnetic and
electromagnetic surveys have been followed up with
limited drilling, and the ensuing year will include follow-
up ground work on targets identified through available
data collation and re-interpretation.
Blue sky: Zimbabwe
Our post-balance sheet acquisition of producing
assets in Zimbabwe needs comment.We have
purchased an 84.7% stake in Falcon Gold Zimbabwe
Limited and 100% of the issued share capital of
Olympus Gold Mines Limited, effective from 
1 March 2007. Falgold and Olympus both have the
rights to extensive claim areas located throughout
Zimbabwe, with mining activities and exploration
properties  centred on the Kadoma, Shurugwe and
Bulawayo regions.The combined resource 
estimates for both companies stands at 2.47 million
ounces of gold with JORC compliant reserves of
631,000 ounces of gold. CAG's attributable portion
of these reserves and resources is 578,000 and
2,167,000 ounces respectively.
In conclusion
I believe these acquisitions complement not only our
gold production profile and strategy in Ghana, but also
the greenfields exploration portfolio being established
in Mali and Botswana. Zimbabwe hosts arguably one of
the highest gold-endowed Archaean greenstone belts
in the world, allowing us to rapidly leverage our
position up the value curve for our shareholders in an
attractive gold price environment.
A mining company's portfolio does not just include gold-
producing mines and exploration properties.The nature
of our business means we are intimately involved in both
the environment and communities of the areas that
support our activities. It is our responsibility to ensure
that our employees have the ability to feed, educate and
nurture their families, and that there will be an
environment left behind, long after we are gone, that will
continue to sustain them.
We believe that a company must be a responsible
citizen of the community in which it operates. Our
approach is not one of subsidisation.We want the
programmes that we initiate to be economically
viable and non-paternalistic; importantly, we want to
get to those areas where we can make a difference
by engaging with the very communities in which we
are based.These are our aims, and moving forward
into 2007 our corporate citizenship programme
will take shape to ensure that the benefits reach the
right people.
We believe in the value of people, and in our team.
I am confident that we have, and continue to attract,
the right people for the work that lies ahead. It bears
repeating that our team has extensive African
experience: many of them have been born and/or
raised in Africa, the value of which cannot be
underestimated, and have track records of working in
challenging economic and social conditions across the
continent.The coming year will see us using our growth
opportunities to establish our credibility in the market,
with a view to strengthening our production base
around our centres of strategic excellence and in
regions selected for their geological prospectivity and
value accretion.We also intend examining the
possibility and logic of extending our capital base
beyond our London listing.We are confident of our
ability to deliver on the promises that we have made to
shareholders and look forward to reporting to them
on a regular basis during the year ahead.
We intend strengthening our board this year in line
with industry best practice, and to this end are in
discussion with a number of well-respected,
like-minded individuals.
It is an exciting time to be involved with CAG, and
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my
thanks to my fellow board members, our management
team, advisors and our employees in the field for their
considerable efforts over the past year.
Greg Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
15 May 2007
CAG AR 15May07AF  5/16/07  12:59 PM  Page 7 CENTRAL AFRICAN GOLD
Annual report 2006
8
CAG AR 15May07AF  5/16/07  12:59 PM  Page 8