 Chairman's Statement
I am delighted to report that as I
complete my first full year as Chairman,
Centurion has achieved record results in
terms of sales, profits and earnings per
share.This robust performance has been
accompanied by intense activity leading to
significant development and growth in all
sectors of the business.
8 Centurion Electronics Plc
Brian Hendon, Chairman Results
For the year ended 30 September 2004 turnover increased by
152% to  15.74 million (2003:  6.25 million) generating a profit
before exceptional income, interest and tax of  2.03 million (2003:
 1.12 million), up 81%. Pre-tax profits were  2.33 million (2003:
 1.18 million). Inbound carriage costs have been reclassified within
cost of sales, as opposed to administrative expenses, and
consequently 2003 numbers have been restated to reflect this new
treatment.
Fully diluted earnings per share rose by 59% to 6.80p (2003: 4.27p),
while fully diluted earnings per share, before exceptional items,
increased by 40% from 3.48p to 4.87p.
We have strengthened further the Company's balance sheet with
shareholders' funds increasing by 60% to  6.92 million (2003:  4.32
million) and as at the year end our cash balances were  2.86 million
(2003:  1.71 million).
In March, Centurion raised  1.2 million via a placing of 1,100,000
shares with new institutional investors in order to supplement our
existing working capital facilities in particular for our product
development and continued expansion into Europe.
Dividend
In light of these results and the optimism with which the Board
views the future, the Directors are recommending a dividend for
the year of 1.1p per share, which is an increase of 38% over the
dividend of 0.8p per share paid last year. If approved by
shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 4 April 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 25 February 2005.
Sales Channels
Our multi-channel sales strategy continues to bring substantial
benefits to Centurion. The market for in-car entertainment is still in
the early stages of growth and consumer awareness during the year
has been significantly enhanced through OEM product launches,
dealership marketing and national press and television advertising
campaigns.
OEM
Sales of Centurion's design engineering-led bespoke in-car
entertainment systems during the last twelve months have grown
ten fold year on year as we have continued to win new contracts
with OEMs.
I referred in my Chairman's Statement in May, accompanying the
interim results, to our relationships with Kia Motors UK Ltd and T oyota
Motor Marketing Europe NV/SA. I am pleased to report that both
are proving to be highly successful. Activity with Kia has been
particularly strong following their use of our roof mounted systems
fitted as standard on the Sedona range as a part of its launch
promotion. Other products developed for Kia include screen head
rest systems for the Sorrento 4x4 and roof mounted systems for the
Carens MPV. We are now also supplying Kia with branded portable
DVD systems available throughout its 150 dealer network.
Toyota, to whom we currently supply systems for three models,
continues to provide excellent growth in line with our expectations
and we expect further growth with the launch of new models and
enhanced vehicle marketing programmes. In addition, we supply
two models within the Lexus range with Centurion products.
In June, we announced an agreement with Peugeot Motor Company
to supply Plug & Play Blue  portable in-car entertainment systems
for sale throughout 340 Peugeot UK dealer networks, and as an
accessory across Peugeot's entire model range.
9 Centurion Electronics Plc In September, we signed a similar agreement with Citro n Limited
to supply Plug & Play Blue  as an accessory to all Citro n models
and for sale throughout its 180 UK dealer networks. In addition,
since September, we have supplied Hyundai Germany with Plug &
Play Blue  8  as an aftermarket accessory throughout their 450
dealerships in Germany.
We are investing in our development and testing facilities to ensure
that our engineering and technical support infrastructure continues
to be compatible with industry requirements and in order to
accommodate the expected increase in demand for our products.
Overall, demand from existing customers remains robust and we
are confident that we will further strengthen our market position by
winning contracts with new motor manufacturers within the UK and
Europe in the coming year
Retail
Centurion's retail activities have had a very successful year with sales
increasing by 60%, substantially assisted by our second half
investment in our sales infrastructure. At the beginning of
September, we announced a retail supply agreement with Choices
Video, a subsidiary of Home Entertainment Corporation PLC, for
the Plug & Play Blue  system. In addition, sales of Plug and Play
Blue  through Argos have exceeded our expectations and Argos
has included two of the Company's new products in its
autumn/winter catalogue and selected one of these lines for special
promotion this Christmas.
We have also recently added Harrods, OSG Co-op, Bennett's
Electrical and Littlewoods to our portfolio of retail customers and
prospects for further wins in 2005 remain strong.
Europe
As a result of implementing our strategic review of the European
market undertaken last February, I am pleased to report that sales
and market penetration into Europe have exceeded our
expectations.
Our newly established infrastructure of bonded warehousing,
customer service centres, sales agency networks and major
distributors in seven countries has resulted in Centurion achieving
selected supplier status with five major European chains.
A European presence represents a core part of our global strategy
and its development is an important and significant step in meeting
our growth plans. We have planned a marketing and advertising
campaign for 2005 which will further enhance our brand and
product awareness.
Chairman's Statement continued
10 Centurion Electronics Plc Supply Chain
We continue to expand our supplier base in the Far East.
Technology development, purchasing, manufacturing and distribution
agreements have been signed with key strategic, manufacturing
partners located in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The
establishment of our Taiwan office in Taipei has brought significant
supply chain advantages as well as providing an invaluable local
presence. We will also continue to develop our overseas supply
chain relationships in order to accelerate the introduction of new
products.
Product Development
Product development is an integral part of Centurion's growth
strategy and during the year we successfully introduced some 49
new products ranging from Plug & Play Blue  to the Centurion
twin screen headrest systems. Current projects under development
mean that the number and diversity of new Centurion products will
increase in 2005.
In February 2005 we are launching a new version third generation
of Plug & Play Blue  DVD8 together with a specific range of MPEG
4 products. In addition, the launch of new OEM design led products
such as the OE50HR and OE65HR monitors will allow us to
continue to provide existing and new automotive customers with
unique headrest and roof mount solutions for their in-car
entertainment requirements.
We will continue to develop innovative design-led products to grow
market share where new technology is being rapidly introduced. In
order to maintain Centurion's technological lead over our competitors
we have continued to strengthen our product development,
engineering and design team infrastructure during the year.
Market Presence
We now have 27.6% of the in-car entertainment market by volume,
making us market leaders in this field (source: GFK Marketing).
During the past six months we have achieved a higher profile with
manufacturers through trade exhibitions, such as the Car and Sound
Show at Sinsheim and Automechanika at Frankfurt, and with
retailers and consumers through extensive coverage in the trade
and consumer media. This profile has been underpinned by
widespread advertising featuring Centurion's products by our OEMs.
For the third time running, Centurion was named a Deloitte &
Touche Technology Fast 50 award winner in the UK and, for the
second time, a Deloitte & Touche Technology Fast 500 award winner
for Europe.
The Board
On 16 July 2004 Malcolm Diamond MBE was appointed to the
Board as a non-executive director. Malcolm has over ten years
experience of public companies and was previously Chief Executive
of Trifast plc, the industrial fasteners distributors and is a non-
executive director of a number of companies.
On 18 October 2004, Chris Rhodes joined the Board as Chief
Executive. Chris has a twenty-year record of significant achievement
within international technology-based companies in the automotive
supplier industry. Most recently he was at Johnson Controls Inc.,
the leading producer of vehicle interior systems, where he was 
Vice President and General Manager of its Ford/PAG Customer
Business Unit.
11 Centurion Electronics Plc As a result of the appointment of the Chief Executive, I stood down
as Executive Chairman but will continue as Chairman in a non-
executive capacity. Similarly Amanda Thorneycroft, who assumed
the role of Managing Director for the period, reverted to Finance
Director.
For personal reasons John Bell resigned on 16 November 2004 as
Operations Director and we will soon announce his replacement.
I thank John for his contribution to the success of the Company and
wish him well for the future.
Outlook
The current year has started well with our performance in OEM,
retail and Europe meeting our expectations. We have strong retail
order books in the UK and Europe as well as good visibility of OEM
earnings.
As the UK market leaders for the supply of in-car entertainment
systems, the Board believes that Centurion is now poised to take
advantage of international opportunities. In particular, we believe
that, our share in the OEM market will grow significantly in the
coming years from existing and new customers.
Our strategic focus is to build a global business and to develop
Centurion into an international brand through our multi-channel
sales strategy. To this end we shall continue our investment in
infrastructure and personnel in order to achieve our strategic
objectives. These are exciting times for Centurion and the Board
remains confident that we will continue to deliver excellent returns
to our shareholders.
It is only with the commitment and dedication of all members of
staff that I am able to report such a successful year, and their
continued efforts gives me the confidence to predict a highly
satisfactory outcome for 2005. I thank them all.
Brian Hendon
Chairman
6 December 2004
Chairman's Statement continued
12 Centurion Electronics Plc We will continually exceed our customers'
ever-increasing aspirations.
A great life-style by a great company.
13 Centurion Electronics Plc