 This has been an exceptionally demanding year for the Group and its senior executives. In particular the continuing
negotiations with Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) over appropriate compensation in respect of the Kilgore insurance
claim was compounded by the unfounded allegations made by the BBC regarding the alleged sale of illegal arms
by one of our companies, PW Defence, which depressed our share price to the detriment of shareholders.
Despite these pressures the Group, excluding Kilgore, performed well, with very strong performances from Alloy
Surfaces and the military pyrotechnics business.The Group's turnover and profitability was inevitably impacted
by the losses at Kilgore due to the prolonged shutdown.The defence order book increased by 10% over the year
to a record  78 million.
RESULTS
2002 2001
 000  000
Operating profit 7,690 11,971
Credit to operating profit relating to insurance claim 5,559 5,533
Profit before tax 5,416 9,399
Profit after tax 3,811 6,747
Earnings per share 14.16p 26.72p
A total of  7.3 million (2001:  5.5 million), including the related profit on disposal, has been accrued in the
results as additional proceeds from the Kilgore insurance claim.The total amount of  12.8 million accounted
for over the last two financial years is considered to be conservative against your Board's opinion, supported by
our professional advisers, of the sum recoverable under the policy. Our claim is significantly in excess of  15
million and this does not include the substantial damages which might be awarded by the Tennessee court for
bad faith  on the part of RSA.
The Board and its advisers cannot understand the reluctance of RSA to enter meaningful negotiations to settle a
liability which everyone recognises exists. Earlier attempts to void the policy or limit its scope using exclusions
written after the incident may give shareholders some flavour of the difficulties your Board has faced.
This incident and RSA's failure, to date, to meet its obligations under the policy have inevitably restricted the
development of your Group over the last year and contribute to depress the share price.
The Group invested further significant resources in research and development in the year, particularly in the
areas of countermeasures and marine safety. Expenditure was  4.5 million (2001:  5 million).The Group has
adopted a policy of writing-off capitalised development expenditure over three years.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
In my statement at the half year I indicated that Kilgore should return to profitability in the second half.
Unfortunately, difficulties were encountered during the commissioning of the new automated manufacturing
process because of the need to ensure absolute safety for employees by minimising exposure to inherently
hazardous materials, and this delayed the restart programme.The major pressed flares line has been operating
satisfactorily since August, and commissioning of the extruded flares line will be completed this month.
The capacity of the new decoy facility at Kilgore is now estimated at  3 million turnover per month, six times
that of our UK facility.
Despite the incident at Kilgore which shut down the flares operations until August 2002 (manufacture of other
products at Kilgore continued), the Group has still been able to increase its presence in the US, the UK and
around the world as the foremost manufacturer and developer of decoys to protect aircraft, helicopters, ships and
land vehicles.The Group is the largest supplier of such devices to both the US and UK armed forces.The order
book in our countermeasures business is currently  66 million, a record high.
Alloy Surfaces has continued its formidable growth pattern, with its countermeasures activity growing 52% since
2000. Since moving the operation to a new factory in 1998, we have invested  6 million in production facilities
to cope with the growing demand for Alloy Surfaces' proprietary products. Our proprietary technology is now
clearly recognised as providing distinct advantages for pre-emptive aircraft protection which denies a missile
lock-on capability to the aggressor.
Chemring Countermeasures, as expected, had lower sales in the year following the high level of naval decoy
sales in the previous year.The business remained very successful in the air decoy market and entered the current
financial year with a strong order book both for the UK and overseas. Chemring Countermeasures' research and
development capabilities remain the most advanced in the industry.
STATEMENT BY THE
CHAIRMAN
PAGE 2
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 The military pyrotechnics business had a solid year, despite the distractions of the BBC allegations, with turnover
up 38%.This progress is expected to continue. Opportunities are increasing for co-operation with other defence
manufacturers, particularly in Europe.
In May 2002 the BBC broadcast unfounded statements that PW Defence was engaged in the manufacture of
anti-personnel landmines which have been banned under the Ottawa Convention since 1997.The BBC
proceeded with the broadcast despite having received our denials and knowing full well that all arms exports
require UK Government approval which would never be granted for such products. PW Defence has not been
involved in the illegal manufacture or sale of landmines as stated by the BBC, a position which has now been
confirmed by all the appropriate authorities.
As someone of an age brought up to believe in the accuracy of BBC reporting it is exceedingly disappointing to
witness a programme of such previous repute resort to gutter journalism  with rigged interviews, selective and
misleading reporting and the suspicion of relationships with certain pressure groups. Inevitably, without the
imperatives for the factual accuracy of such statements others chose to jump on the bandwagon for their own
political or other prestige.
These disgraceful statements defamed your Company, its directors and certain other executives, by implication
accusing them of criminal acts. Following clearance from the authorities the Group's lawyers have written to the
BBC in the strongest terms and we will pursue the matter until the BBC corrects the gross inaccuracies.
The matter has obviously taken up a great deal of management time which could have been more productively
used within our operations.
Our marine business is amongst the foremost, if not the foremost, of providers of marine safety products.
Whilst pyrotechnics remains a solid market, our electronic products demonstrate the growth potential of the
current technological era with sales having increased by 59% over the last three years.The recent acquisition of
ICS Electronics not only adds to our capabilities by enlarging our scope to meet new marine legislation but its
electronic products also complement our existing range.
The markets for our marine business are mainly commercial and driven by international legislation.
Our challenge is to develop and persuade the leisure market to recognise the essential benefits of our safety
equipment. Significant loss of life could be avoided if our automatic distress signalling products became
mandatory on leisure vessels, as is the case in France, Spain and Australia.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW
Kilgore has invested  12 million in capital expenditure rebuilding its plant over the last two years.
This substantial commitment plus the operational losses during the shutdown period have inevitably caused a
major increase in borrowings.Against this background, at 31 October 2002 RSA had only advanced 
 3.2 million under the insurance claim.A further payment of  2.5 million was received in January 2003.
It is a pleasure to be able to thank our bank, Bank of Scotland, for its understanding of the situation and for its
co-operation, relationship banking at its best.
Our indebtedness and gearing will be rectified in the medium term.The Group has adequate facilities to
maintain its growth supported by strong operational cash flow but it is hoped that a settlement can be reached
with RSA in order to reduce current borrowing levels.
PENSIONS
As is the case with an enormous number of companies, the Board has given considerable attention to the
problems facing occupational pension schemes.Two issues have coincided to produce a highly complex scenario.
The first is the sharp fall in the value of pension fund investments due to the fall in the stock market.A similar
occurrence took place in the 1970s. Pension funds are for the long term.Your directors are not contemplating a
knee jerk  reaction but are determined to find a solution after due consideration.The second is the proposed
new accounting recommendation for valuation of pension schemes.This new method contains contentious
issues of both principle and technique and is certainly not an appropriate base for corrective action.Your Board
recognises the Group's obligations to the members of its schemes and has engaged pension advisers to assist in
developing our future strategy.
PAGE 3
STATEMENT BY THE
CHAIRMAN
- continued
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 DIVIDENDS
Against the background of the Kilgore position, the Board has given careful consideration to the Group's
dividend policy and the recommendation of a final dividend for the year. The Board believes that its confidence
in the future prosperity of the Group will be clearly demonstrated by the recommendation of a final dividend as
normal, maintained at last year's level of 4.25p. This, together with the interim dividend of 2.45p (2001: 2.45p)
paid in August 2002, gives a total dividend for the year of 6.70p (2001: 6.70p).
EMPLOYEES
In a very difficult year for the Group, all its directors, senior executives, staff and employees have responded to
the challenges and ensured that the Group has maintained its forward momentum. My thanks go to everyone for
their efforts, loyalty and responsibility.
PROSPECTS
Many commentators, recently, have pointed out the scale of US military operations, its increasing budget over
the coming years and its proportionate size to the rest of the world.Your Group's countermeasure decoys are
enviably placed to satisfy most of these requirements for the US military machine.The impact of September 11,
the subsequent appreciation of the terrorist threat, both domestically and internationally, and other world events
gives confidence of the growing demand for our protective products.
In addition, with the increasing demand for our marine safety products and a solid contribution from our other
operations, I believe the Group will return this year to the strong performance of previous years. Resolution of
the Kilgore insurance claim with RSA would enable the Board to expand its horizons beyond existing activities.
K C SCOBIE - Chairman
3 February 2003
STATEMENT BY THE
CHAIRMAN
- continued
PAGE 4
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002