 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
4
Statement by the Chairman
During 2009 three significant landmarks were reached: 
Group revenue exceeded  500 million, underlying profit 
before tax* exceeded  100 million and our market 
capitalisation increased to over  1 billion.
Highlights
   Revenue up 42% to  503.9 million
   Underlying operating profit* from 
continuing operations up 20% to 
 101.9 million
   Underlying operating profit* from new 
acquisitions:  12.8 million
   Underlying profit before tax* 
up 38% to  102.6 million
   Underlying earnings per share* 
up 33% at 213p
   Basic earnings per share up 62% at 199p
Key information
Underlying profit before tax*
 102.6m
+38%
Underlying earnings per share*
213p
+33%
Dividend per ordinary share
50p
+43%
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from 
recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation 
arising from business combinations and  
gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of  6.8 million (2008:  16.5 million).
It is very satisfactory to report another 
year of substantial growth in earnings, 
combined with excellent cash generation 
and a strong balance sheet. During 2009, 
three significant landmarks were reached:  
Group revenue exceeded  500 million, 
underlying profit before tax* exceeded 
 100 million and our market capitalisation 
increased to over  1 billion. All three are 
major achievements that highlight the 
growing stature of the Group. 
The Group generated an underlying profit 
before tax* of  102.6 million, an increase 
of 38% on the previous year. The Board 
recognises the very significant growth in 
earnings over recent years and is, therefore, 
recommending a final dividend of 36p. 
This gives a total dividend for the year of 
50p, an increase of 43% over last year.
The order intake for the Group increased by 
55% to a new annual record of  627.6 million, 
and we finished the 2009 financial year 
with an order book of  559.0 million, 37% 
higher than last year. This provides a strong 
foundation for further growth in 2010.
I am delighted to report that all of our 
recent acquisitions have performed well. 
Two of these acquisitions, in particular, 
delivered outstanding performances 
during 2009. Simmel Difesa, which we 
acquired in 2007, had another excellent 
year, generating a further 54% growth 
in annual revenue. NIITEK, which we 
acquired in December 2008, was also a 
star performer, generating  45.6 million of 
revenue in just ten months of ownership. 
NIITEK is the world's leading manufacturer 
of vehicle-mounted mine detection 
systems, and its products are gaining 
considerable momentum in Afghanistan, 
where its technology is at the forefront of 
protecting the US military from the threat 
of improvised explosive devices (IEDs).
In November 2009, we completed the 
acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology 
Corporation, a leading manufacturer of 
high reliability energetic products for use 
in key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, missile defence and 
aircrew egress. The business will enhance 
our position in the space sector, and offers 
us an entry into the important market for 
ballistic missile defence.
In the last twelve months, we have 
reorganised our operational structure 
into three geographical divisions - Europe, 
USA and International. The International 
division will drive our expansion outside 
Europe and the USA. In addition, we 
have consolidated the corporate and 
management structure within these divisions 
into strong product-focused groupings 
in Countermeasures and Energetics, in 
order to enhance the capabilities offered 
to our military customers. As a further 
development, significant strengthening of 
our sales and marketing functions, in terms 
of both the seniority and number of staff, 
has taken place across all of the businesses.
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt
The Board has always been aware of the 
requirements to retain a strong balance 
sheet, avoid excessive borrowing, generate 
solid operational cash flow, and structure a 
debt repayment profile that would ensure 
that the Group's growth objectives could 
be achieved, within reason, unhindered 
by financial limitations. This has been 
successfully achieved in the past, and the 
recent issue of $280 million of new fixed 
interest loan notes repayable between 
2016 and 2019, similar to the issue made 
in November 2007, will maintain this policy.
Group strategy
The Board reviews the Group's strategy 
on a continuing basis, and once a year 
formally meets to discuss, in some detail, 
the next five years, considering all the main 
factors as far as can be determined which 
may impact beneficially, or otherwise, on 
Group performance. Whilst it is not our 
intention to produce a financial plan for five 
years, inevitably the impact of the Board's 
deliberations is subject to a financial 
evaluation. The recent annual exercise 
would suggest that we should be able to 
maintain our current highly successful 
growth strategy. 
Board of directors
It was announced to shareholders in the 
November 2009 Interim Management 
Statement that as I have been your Chairman 
for twelve years and am now in my seventy 
second year, provision should commence for 
my ultimate succession.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Although the Group is regularly presented 
with many opportunities for acquisitions, 
we continue to be very selective and have 
refused to bid the asking price or match 
a competing offer in situations where the 
quality of earnings, the earnings multiple 
and minimal asset backing suggest that the 
return on investment or the risk-reward 
ratio could not be justified. Shareholders 
can rest assured that the Board will 
continue with this policy.
Shareholders inevitably will wish to know the 
Board's views on two major topics - the war 
in Afghanistan and future defence budgets. 
The Board believes that substantial forces will 
be required in Afghanistan for many years 
to come. The US and UK defence budgets 
appear to be under threat and this will have 
an impact on the global defence market. 
However, the Board believes that the majority 
of our niche markets will be unaffected and 
our strategy for growth remains unchanged. 
With our wide spread of customers, products 
and capabilities, and our considerable 
abilities to respond rapidly to the military's 
requirements, I am very confident of our 
continuing long term success. Our proven 
strategy, the strength of our order book, 
the impact of our enlarged sales force, the 
contribution from our latest acquisitions, and 
our secure financial fundamentals should 
ensure that the Group will continue in 2010 
with the progress of the last decade. 
K C Scobie
Chairman
19 January 2010
That process is now under way and will 
provide for the new appointee to join 
the Board for a period of familiarisation 
prior to assuming the Chairmanship. 
Shareholders will obviously be advised 
as further progress is made.
During the year, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman 
and Mr Evans were both re-appointed 
as non-executive directors for a further 
three year term. In 2010, Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss and Mr Much will reach 
the end of their second three year terms 
as non-executive directors. It would be my 
intention to recommend to the Board that 
their current appointments be extended until 
the new incumbent has arrived, to assist in a 
smooth transfer of responsibilities.
In this era of enormously enhanced 
corporate governance, the responsibilities 
and time commitment of non-executive 
directors serving on the various Board 
committees has increased significantly, 
and I would like to thank them for the 
diligence with which they have fulfilled 
such obligations, in particular the Chairs of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees - 
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much.
Staff and employees
For a group with revenue of over 
 500 million, it is surprising that we 
employ only 3,349 people. I welcome 
to the Group all those who have joined 
in the last twelve months, either to take 
up employment or through being part of 
an acquired business. I hope that you will 
have long and rewarding careers with us. 
We have had another very successful year 
which is testament to everyone's dedication 
and hard work. The Board would like to 
thank all employees for their efforts in the 
knowledge that these will continue and will 
result in a successful 2010.
Pensions
The Group maintains a policy of trying to 
ensure, through one mechanism or another 
in all countries, that it contributes to schemes 
for all employees who wish to make provision 
for their retirement. In the UK, our defined 
benefit pension scheme remains open to 
existing members for future accrual, and 
to new employees at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. However, the 
proposed penal changes to the taxation of UK 
occupational pension schemes will mean that 
continuing to participate in such schemes will 
be financially disadvantageous for our senior 
management, and this may well mean further 
changes to our UK pension arrangements.
The triennial actuarial valuation for the UK 
defined benefit scheme is currently being 
progressed. Any deficit on the scheme which 
is agreed at the end of this process is unlikely 
to be significant to the Group.
Dividends
For many years the Group has maintained a 
policy of increasing dividends commensurate 
with the rise in the Group's profitability. 
At the half year, with underlying profits* 
up approximately 40%, the Group paid 
an interim dividend of 14p (2008: 10p), 
maintaining this relationship. Although the 
Group has announced underlying earnings* 
growth of 33% for the full year, the Board 
is recommending a final dividend for 2009 
of 36p, giving a total for the year of 50p. 
As the dividend is still covered 4.3 times by 
underlying after tax earnings* and with a solid 
balance sheet and cash flow, it is believed that 
the Group is well positioned to increase the 
return to shareholders. Shareholders should 
not assume, however, that this is a change 
in our dividend policy. In the last five years, 
the total dividend per share has increased 
over fivefold from 9p to 50p. 
Prospects
In the last decade shareholders have 
received a substantial total return, with 
earnings per share growing from 14p in 
1999 to 213p in 2009, the dividend per 
share increasing from 5.5p to 50p over the 
same period, and the market value of the 
Group's shares rising dramatically from just 
under  2 to in excess of  29. This has been 
achieved through a clearly defined policy 
of organic growth, a focused programme of 
acquisitions, well-executed post-acquisition 
integration, and subsequent investment 
in product and facilities to deliver further 
expansion. The Board believes that there is 
ample opportunity to continue this policy in 
Europe, the USA and other countries around 
the world, where joint ventures or new 
start-ups could be the preferred option.