 Business review
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
4
and Chemring was no different. We failed 
to anticipate and react to those changing 
market dynamics quickly enough and to 
understand the impact on our businesses. 
Our trading performance suffered as a 
result. In addition, the overall performance 
also reflected specific issues at several of 
our subsidiary companies.
We reported a number of issues during 
the year. At our Florida subsidiary, we 
encountered problems with the installation 
of a new resource planning system which, 
together with delays on a major contract, 
considerably eroded its profit. At the year 
end, the Group's results were significantly 
below expectations, as we experienced 
a delay in the receipt of a major order 
from the Middle East, continued to 
suffer technical problems with a specific 
countermeasure product, and were unable 
to deliver as much of a vehicle-based mortar 
system product as we had anticipated due 
to export licence difficulties.
Overall, revenue from continuing operations 
for the year was  740.3 million, an increase 
of 2%, generating an underlying continuing 
operating profit* of  88.3 million, down 35%. 
Underlying continuing profit before tax* fell 
by 42% to  70.1 million, producing underlying 
continuing earnings per share* of 28.5p, a fall 
of 43% against the previous year. 
The order intake for the Group was  
 660.2 million, which is 17% lower than 
last year. Although we saw strong order 
growth in our Counter-IED and Pyrotechnics 
businesses, this was offset by a downturn 
in order intake within Countermeasures 
and Munitions. The Munitions segment 
was affected by export licence delays, and 
the timing of orders, with several large 
multi-year contracts having been received 
in the prior year. The lower order intake in 
the Countermeasures segment principally 
reflects lower customer demand, driven by 
government fiscal and budgetary controls. 
As a result, the Group's closing order book 
reached  760.9 million, down 13% on 2011.
Chairman's statement 
Although the defence industry is facing challenges, Chemring's  
leading market positions, innovative products and manufacturing  
expertise should ensure the Group's underlying business 
remains robust in the face of market pressures. 
Highlights
  Revenue from continuing operations 
up 2% to  740.3 million
  Underlying continuing operating profit*  
 88.3 million
  Underlying continuing profit before tax*  
 70.1 million
  Underlying continuing earnings  
per share* 28.5p
  Continuing profit before tax  
 18.8 million
  Basic continuing earnings per share 6.8p
Key information
Underlying continuing profit before tax*
 70.1m
Underlying continuing earnings per share*
28.5p
Dividend per ordinary share
9.5p
* Before acquisition and disposal related costs, 
restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal 
of business, impairment of goodwill, intangible 
amortisation arising from business combinations  
and gain on fair value movements on derivatives
2012 was extremely disappointing for 
Chemring, our shareholders, our customers 
and our employees. During the course of the 
year, against an already challenging market 
background, a number of additional issues 
disrupted the operational performance of 
the business, including problems with the 
supply chain, contract delays and changes 
in senior management.
Although the general decline in defence 
spending in a number of our markets had 
a significant impact on trading during the 
year, a large proportion of the problems 
that affected the Group's performance 
stemmed from operational issues within  
the business, a failure to anticipate the 
impact of changing market dynamics,  
and poor management of expectations. 
Overall, this resulted in a significant decline 
in the market value of the Company. 
However, with the appointment of  
Mark Papworth as Chief Executive 
in November 2012, followed by the 
appointment of Steve Bowers as Finance 
Director in January 2013, we are now 
rebuilding the senior management team 
required to lead our recovery. This recovery 
will focus on operational performance 
efficiency, margin improvement, and 
business reorganisation to enable the Group 
to deal with the ongoing challenges in its 
end markets. Turning to the balance sheet, 
there will need to be a tighter focus on the 
generation and management of our cash 
flows in order to reduce our levels of debt. 
The objective is to ensure the business is 
well-positioned to operate effectively in 
an environment of constrained defence 
spending, and to ensure the Group can 
return to profitable growth.
Trading 
Chemring's trading result during 2012 
was unsatisfactory. Defence spending 
pressures on both sides of the Atlantic, 
but particularly in the USA, affected a 
number of defence companies during 2012  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
5
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Sir Peter Norriss, who has been a  
non-executive director since May 2004, 
has indicated his intention to retire from 
the Board at the Annual General Meeting. 
During his time with the Group, Peter 
has provided the Board with invaluable 
guidance, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank him on behalf of the 
Board and wish him well in the future. 
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
for the year of 4.2p (2011: 10.8p). With the 
interim dividend paid of 5.3p (2011: 4.0p), 
this gives a total dividend for 2012 of 9.5p 
(2011: 14.8p). The total dividend for the year 
reflects the Company's policy outlined last 
year, to provide dividends covered three 
times by earnings.
Outlook
The US defence market will remain 
vulnerable to budget uncertainties during 
the coming year, and the lack of clarity over 
defence expenditure is likely to continue 
to erode market confidence and adversely 
affect the procurement process, as 
purchase decisions are delayed.
Similarly, in the UK, funding for new and 
existing programmes is expected to remain 
constrained during the course of 2013, 
as the MoD's review of its procurement 
processes continues. Downward pressure 
on European defence spending, as a result 
of deficit reduction programmes, is also 
expected to continue. 
Overall, therefore, the difficult market 
conditions that contributed to the Group's 
disappointing performance in 2012 are 
expected to continue in 2013.
However, against this challenging 
environment, Chemring's strategy will 
be to drive improvements in operational 
performance and structure the business in 
such a way as to provide greater resilience. 
At the same time, we will continue to 
pursue the opportunities that exist within 
Balance sheet, cash flow  
and debt
The Group generated an underlying 
continuing operating cash flow* of  
 114.9 million, which was 130% of 
underlying continuing operating profit*.  
At the end of the year, net debt was  
 244.8 million, compared with  
 262.7 million last year, driven by 
significant operating cash inflow in the  
final quarter of the year. 
Group strategy
In recent years, the Group has pursued a 
strategy of combining organic growth with 
targeted acquisitions. Whilst operating in 
fragmented markets where opportunities 
for future consolidation exist, the Board 
currently believes that there are greater 
opportunities to enhance shareholder 
value in the short term through focusing on 
delivering performance improvement and 
integration of operating units. 
Board of directors
There have been a number of changes at 
Board level during the last twelve months. 
As outlined in last year's report,  
Vanda Murray joined the Board as a  
non-executive director in November 2011, 
and David Evans retired from the Board at 
the Annual General Meeting in March 2012. 
Mark Papworth was appointed to the Board 
as Chief Executive at the start of the new 
financial year, succeeding David Price who 
resigned at the end of October 2012.  
Steve Bowers joined the Board as  
Finance Director at the beginning of 
January 2013, replacing Paul Rayner  
who resigned in July 2012. 
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief 
Financial Officer between August 2012  
and January 2013, will join the Board as  
a non-executive director at the end of 
April 2013, after completing a specific 
reorganisation project. He will become 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
succeeding Lord Freeman who plans to 
retire from the Board at the end of the year.
our non-NATO territories, where defence 
spending may be less affected by the same 
constraints. Although the defence industry 
is facing challenges, Chemring's leading 
market positions, innovative products and 
manufacturing expertise should ensure the 
Group's underlying business remains robust 
in the face of market pressures. Whilst 
the new management team is actively 
addressing these issues and opportunities, 
2013 is still expected to be a challenging 
year for Chemring, and therefore the 
Board's expectations for the year  
remain unchanged. 
P C F Hickson
Chairman
24 January 2013