 CHINA NEW ENERGY LIMITED 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group's total revenues were RMB 44million (c.  4.4 million) a 
decrease of 70.0% from RMB 146million (c.  14.6m), which is a result of a slow down of sales of 
biorefineries in developed countries. CNE's management responded to the changing market conditions and 
we have refocused our business development activities on the emerging markets of South East Asia, 
Eastern Europe and Africa, and I am pleased to report that the group secured new contracts in 2013 up to a 
total value of RMB 656.9million (c.  65.7 million) and our total order book is RMB 672million (c.  67.2 
million), which continues to give the Board strong confidence in our future prospects. 
2013 was very much a transition year for CNE as we sought to restructure our finances. Firstly, CNE has 
fully repaid our bonds to Citadel and I am pleased to report that CNE has no outstanding bonds or loans, 
and as a result of this debt restructuring we recorded an exceptional income of RMB 24.8million (c.  2.48 
million). Secondly, we tried to achieve our goal of acquiring an operating biorefinery with the purpose of 
delivering a second revenue stream to the Company as well as providing a case study for our advanced 2d 
generation cellulosic biorefinery technology. During the year we entered into an agreement to acquire a 
75% interest in Harbin China Distillery Company Limited, but we later decided not to complete the 
transaction. However, it still remains a goal of the board to acquire an operating biorefinery, which we 
expect will help us deliver more consistent annual revenues. 
The gross profit for the year was RMB 2.3million (c.  0.23 million) down from RMB 26million (c. 
 2.6million), which is in line with the decreased revenues. The selling and administrative expenses 
decreased by 20.4% from RMB 19.6million (c. 1.96million) to RMB 15.6million (c  1.56million), and other 
operating increased by 13% from RMB 1.5million (c. 0.15million) to RMB 1. ?million (c.  0.17million), 
excluding the non-recurring items of RMB 33.8million (c.   3.38million) for bad debts provision and RMB 
30.8million (c.  3.08million) for impairments loss to investment. 
For the year 2013, the company recorded a net loss for the year of RMB 59.2m (c.  5.92million), a 
decrease from a net profit of RMB 26.2million (c.  2.62million). 
Operational Review 
The Group principally provides EPC (Equipment, Procurement and Construction) services and VAS (Value 
Added Service) to ethanol and biobutanol producers. The EPC team primarily design and build commercial 
scale biorefineries that convert feedstock into ethanol for both the biofuel and edible alcohol markets, whilst 
the VAS team provide services and technology to optimise the ethanol production at existing biorefineries. 
CNE is a market leader in China at designing and building 1
51 
Generation biorefineries that convert 
agricultural feedstock such as corn, cassava and sugarcane into ethanol. We have completed more than 
100 Generation 1 projects in China and around the world, but the market is now evolving as our customers 
in China and other developed nations seek to use cellulosic (non-food) feedstock such as corn-stover in 2d 
Generation biorefineries. 
It is a priority for CNE to commercialise this 2d generation technology, as we believe this will stimulate 
demand for building new biorefineries in China and around the world. I am pleased to report that during the 
year we entered into an agreement with our existing client Jilin Province New Tian Long Alcohol Co., Ltd. 
(NTLA} to provide specialist technology and services to assist in building a new, 2d Generation biorefinery 
with a production capacity of 50,000 tonnes per year. NTLA is one of the largest ethanol producers in China 
and they have chosen CNE as their development partner in a multi-phase contract with the initial contract 
phase being RMB 10million (approx.  1m} to CNE over a 2 year period. This is a significant milestone for 
CNE as the contract will help CNE secure its position as a leader in the commercialisation of 2d Generation 
biorefinery technology. 
4  CHINA NEW ENERGY LIMITED 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 
The market for 1 sf Generation biorefineries has notably shifted from developed countries such as China to 
developing countries in SE Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe. CNE has refocused our sales and marketing 
activities to service these markets and during the year I am pleased to report that we completed the first 
biorefinery for UBBE in Thailand. This 1 sf Generation biorefinery with a production capacity of 100,000 
tonnes of bioethanol was formally opened by Princess Sirindhorn of Thailand following a two year 
construction period and six month commissioning and handover phase. The project has proved to be a 
good reference, and contributed to CNE winning extensive new business including: 
  UBBE in Thailand have ordered a second biorefinery with a production capacity of 100,000 tonnes 
of bioethanol per year. The new project will replicate the existing biorefinery and is expected to 
commence in late 2014, and forecast to complete by 2016, with a contract value for the Company 
of approximately RMB 1 OOmillion ( 1 Omillion). 
  Visontai Bioetanol Fejleszto Korll~tolt elelossegu Tarsasag (Visontai) and Helveciai 
Biouzemanyag Termelo es Kereskedo Kft. (Helveciai) in Hungary have ordered two biorefineries 
with a combined production capacity of approximately 100,000 tonnes of ethanol per year. The 
value of the contracts to CNE are  72m (approx.  60m) over a 4 year period. As part of the 
tendering process, CNE has already completed the design for both the projects. The first project is 
expected to complete within two years, entering full commercial production in 2017. The progress 
of construction will be subject to Viscontai and Helvecia completing their fund raising milestones. 
  Sunbird Bioenergy Africa Limited (Sunbird) have entered into an MOU with CNE to design and 
build a flagship biorefinery in Nigeria with the possibility to extend this initial project to include a 
further nine biorefineries. The value of the initial project for the Company is expected to be in the 
region of RMB 150million (c.  15million). The first project will convert cassava feedstock into 
100,000 tonnes of anhydrous ethanol per year. CNE will supply its proprietary pre-treatment, 
fermentation, distillation and dehydration technology to the project and the local project partner, 
OBAX World Limited, will complete the local civil engineering and construction of the biorefinery. 
Whilst in the long-term it is our objective to sell 2nd Generation biorefineries to our existing customers, in the 
short-term we are providing VAS services including advanced fermentation and energy efficiency 
technologies that increase the profitability of their existing biorefineries. In 2013, CNE was recognised by 
the China Alcoholic Drinks Association's (CADA) and received their annual award for Science and 
Technology Improvement for an energy efficiency project completed for Jilin Province New Tian Long Wine 
Co., Ltd. The recognition has been received in respect of the Company's patented Five-Tower Two-stage 
Differential Pressure Distillation Equipment & Process for Superfine-grade Edible Alcohol technology 
(Patent Number ZL 2007 1 0030550.8). 
Research & Development 
A major goal of CNE remains to commercialise second-generation technology that converts cellulosic 
biomass (agricultural waste) into fuel grade ethanol and butanol. During the year, our R&D team made 
significant progress in developing new processes that will help achieve that goal, and we applied for two 
new invention patents. One of which is a method for producing Alga with wastewater from bio-butanol 
production, and the other is a fermentation method for the production of Welan Gum. The Group now holds 
a total of 26 patents and intends to remain a leading developer of intellectual property in the bioenergy 
sector. 
5  CHINA NEW ENERGY LIMITED 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 
Outlook 
The Board believes that market for our products and services will continue to grow. We remain committed 
to completing the transition of our business and our strategy remains to focus on the following : 
1. Commercialising 2nd generation biofuel technology, and building commercial scale 2nd Generation 
biorefineries in China and other developed countries. 
2. Maximising the potential for our 1'
1 
Generation technology, and building commercial scale 1
51 
Generation biorefineries in SE Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe. 
3. Acquiring and operating our own biorefinery, which we can use as a test-bed for our 2nd generation 
technology, as well as an additional revenue stream that will provide consistent annual revenues to 
the business. 
In general, I am optimistic about the Group's prospects in 2014 and beyond. We continue to expect 
challenges due to the global economic climate, but the general outlook for our industry is very exciting as it 
transitions to second-generation technology. The Board and Management are feeling energized and 
committed to deliver growth this year, and build a strong foundation for sustainable growth in the future. 
On behalf of the board, I would like to extend my appreciation to our valued shareholders, supportive 
business partners and associates, insightful management and dedicated staff for all their contribution and 
commitment towards the Company. I would also like to thank the Board of Directors for their invaluable 
counsel in steering the Group through this exciting time. 
Yu Weijun 
Chairman 
26 May 2014 
6 