 Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2006 10
Chairman's
statement
Christian Salvesen performed in line with expectations during 
the year and made good progress on a number of important fronts.
We increased revenue for the first time in several years and we
continued to increase new business wins while renewing existing
contracts and reducing contract losses. Earnings per share improved
by 10% as a result of our efforts to eliminate exceptional charges
that have held back results in recent years.
Despite the fact that margins remain under pressure, all of our
businesses made progress with the exception of UK Transport,
where we posted a loss.
We made further progress in reshaping the business to address the
realities of today's trading environment. Productivity and efficiency
are improving, but to achieve real profit growth we must increase
sales revenue significantly. That is now our primary challenge.
Our drive to restore sales growth, begun some two years ago, 
has brought a steady increase in new business wins. During the
year we won contracts worth some  120m, on top of  110m in
the previous year. The contract pipeline is healthy, with a good
proportion of the larger deals that we particularly want to win. 
At the same time, our renewed customer focus has sharply reduced
contract losses - down by almost two-thirds from the previous
year. We maintained our high success rate in contract renewals,
retaining some  90m in contracts that fell due for renewal, 
a retention rate of well over 90%.
We will have to wait a little longer to see the real benefit of this
sales success as there is often a delay between winning a new
contract and the start of profitable operations. In the meantime 
we have been investing in our teams and facilities to meet our
customers' requirements.
Financial highlights
Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards for
the first time, we increased sales by 2% to  821m. Net earnings
grew 10% to  11.8m, despite the operating profits before
exceptional charges being lower. 
Our businesses are now grouped into two overall sectors: Food
and Consumer, and Transport. Revenue in our Food and Consumer
businesses was down 2% but operating profit before exceptional
items rose 16%. Our Transport businesses increased revenue by
6%, but operating profit was down 26% as substantial advances
in France and Iberia were offset by losses in the UK. 
Free cashflow was  11.5m compared to  27.7m in the previous
year and year-end debt remained unchanged at  94m after
payment of dividends.
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 2.45p per share,
making an unchanged total of 3.65p for the year. The dividend 
is covered 1.2 times by net earnings, an improvement from the 
1.1 times in the previous year. The board continues to believe 
that this is a sustainable base level for the future.
The final dividend will be paid on 31 August 2006 to shareholders
on the register at 4 August 2006. 
Pensions
Pensions remain an important issue in the UK. The UK defined
benefit scheme is now closed to new employees and we have
increased the contribution rate for existing employee members 
to help manage the deficit and maintain existing benefits.
With around 80% of the scheme assets invested in equities, 
it was a good year for investment returns. However, this was not
sufficient to offset the added cost of increased life expectancy and
David Fish
Chairman
As we reap the benefit of the past 
year's business wins, we expect revenue
growth to accelerate through the new
financial year.
sal 06 front+cov artwork 2  7/6/06  8:36 am  Page 10 Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2006 11
>90%
We retained some  90m in contracts
that fell due for renewal - a success rate
of well over 90%.
+ 120m
We won contracts worth  120m during
the year, on top of  110m in the
previous year.
the lower discount rate used to value the liabilities, and the year-
end deficit increased by  10m to  73m. Our assumptions on life
expectancy reflect the most up-to-date actuarial estimates.
Strategy
Our new Chief Executive, Stewart Oades, joined us from Exel 
in May 2005. His strategic review confirmed our belief that the
business is fundamentally sound. Christian Salvesen has a powerful
brand and a strong presence in sub-sectors with good growth
prospects. Our strategy is therefore to build on these strengths,
focusing on our target market segments to rejuvenate the business.
We are sharpening our focus on our two core activities - transport
services, and food and consumer logistics - and have organised
ourselves around them. We are working harder to leverage our
existing customer relationships, to improve account management,
to work more effectively with colleagues across the Group, to win
larger, more complex contracts that involve significant levels of
value-adding services, and to secure new partners. As part of our
focus on core logistics activities we will continue to monitor the
performance of the UK frozen vegetable business.
Many of our customers are working increasingly closely with
overseas manufacturers, particularly in the Far East, and integrating
them into their supply chains. This time last year we identified the
provision of integrated end-to-end logistics solutions as an
important priority for us and we are delighted that we have now
formed Holistica, a joint venture with APL Logistics, a leading
global freight management company.
We are becoming a leaner and more responsive business with 
a flatter structure. We clearly recognise the need for continuous
improvement and are driving efficiency within our businesses
through investment in our people and modern technology to help
us improve our productivity.
We are also aware of the balance sheet gearing and the board is
examining ways to make capital available from the existing asset
base to support our plans for renewed growth.
Operational highlights
We achieved good contract wins in a wide range of sectors. It was
encouraging to see how many of these resulted from building on
existing customer relationships - a key element in our growth strategy.
By way of example, in the UK contractual negotiations are almost
complete for our appointment by Goodyear Dunlop to operate its
Tyrefort national distribution centre in addition to the outbound
transport that we already provide. We are also in negotiations with
Continental Tyre Group to relocate to Tyrefort to take advantage
of the more efficient warehousing and national distribution we 
can offer there. Separately, we built on our relationship with
glassmaker Rockware to win a warehousing and distribution
contract from its sister company, Redfearn. 
In continental Europe we continued to grow our relationship with
Carrefour, winning contracts to deliver chilled products in northern
and central Spain. We won a major warehousing and distribution
contract for Nestl  Ice Cream in Belgium, and our French Transport
business renewed contracts with Avery Dennison, Bosch, BP,
Condat, Michelin and Total. Our strategy to extend our successful
Support Services model onto the Continent is making excellent
progress and we have a number of promising projects in the pipeline.
We expect our markets to remain competitive for the foreseeable
future. Pressure on pricing will not go away, and we will remain
sensitive to any increases in our costs. During the year, we faced
further rises in fuel costs. In the UK and France we were broadly
able to recover these from customers; but this has been harder 
in Spain, and margins suffered as a result. This problem has
affected the whole industry in Spain, and led to a short national
strike in October. 
People 
In September 2005, logistics and transportation consultant Alain
Poinssot joined the board as a non-executive director. Alain further
enhances the board's continental European outlook. His wealth of
logistics experience includes running Geodis, a leading European
transport and logistics company, as Chairman and CEO, and nine
years in charge of the freight division at French rail company SNCF. 
In April 2006 we welcomed Mark Morris as a non-executive
director. Mark was previously with Sytner Group and brings strong
financial and commercial skills which will be highly relevant for
the industry in which we operate.
In July 2006, both Peter Cawdron and Dr Antonie Edelman 
will retire from the board after over eight years as non-executive
directors. We thank them for their contributions through a period
of considerable change.
We have already strengthened the management ranks with 
a number of external recruits and this process will continue. 
Our restructuring and recruitment process has had implications 
for our colleagues throughout the business and we have made 
great demands on people at all levels. I am grateful to them for
their tremendous response: everyone in the business can take 
pride in the progress we are making. 
Outlook
We anticipate no change to the challenging markets we operate in.
In particular, continuing high oil and utility prices will add pressure
to any negotiations on pricing. Competitive pressure will also
continue - but the ongoing consolidation of the market and clear
focus by our own people should result in more invitations to
participate in tenders in our chosen market sectors.
The progress that we are making should be increasingly evident
this financial year. As we reap the benefit of the past year's new
business wins we expect revenue growth to accelerate through the
year. Operating profit will follow suit, but more slowly because 
of continuing investment for new contracts and the need to move
quickly to continue strengthening our business development
capability. The impact of higher interest and effective tax rates 
will affect the improvement in overall financial performance, 
which will be weighted towards the second half.
sal 06 front+cov artwork 2  7/6/06  8:36 am  Page 11