 Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2007 02
Chairman's statement
The growth strategy we outlined a year ago is working well. 
After several years when our sales growth has been limited, it is
encouraging to be on the front foot again. Overall, we increased
revenue by 10% in the year but, as we cautioned last year, the
continuing competitive market conditions mean it is taking longer
than we had hoped to move operating profit in the same direction.
Pricing remains under pressure, and as we go forward we must
increase our focus on margin improvement.
After a challenging year, overall operating performance was 
slightly ahead of recent expectations. Our Food and Consumer
sector performed better than anticipated: revenue was up 11% 
and a strong performance in the UK helped to increase operating
profit before exceptional items by 9%. However, the Transport
sector fared less well: revenue grew 8%, but disappointing
performances in the UK and to a lesser extent in Iberia, halved
operating profit before exceptional items. The French and Iberian
Transport businesses achieved good margins compared with their
local competitors, but the UK is still losing money. Turning this
business around remains our top priority and our plans to do 
so are well advanced.
Financial highlights
Revenue increased by 10% to  899m. Although underlying
operating profit (i.e. before exceptional items) reduced as margins
tightened, net profit increased strongly from  11.8m to  47.4m,
reflecting the benefit of several exceptional items, which produced
a net gain of  35.5m after tax. Earnings per share increased by
301% from 4.46p to 17.90p, again reflecting the exceptional items.
In our last annual report we said we were looking at ways to
release capital from the existing asset base to reduce gearing and
support our plans for renewed growth. In September 2006 we
accomplished this through the sale and leaseback of part of our
UK property portfolio. The deal generated a net  46m of cash
from property with a book value of  19m. The impact on future 
earnings is broadly neutral, and we still hold freehold property
worth significantly more than its net book value of  43m.
This has helped us to cut net debt by more than half over the year,
from  94m to  39m. At the year-end, gearing (excluding the pension
deficit) was 29%, compared with 83% a year earlier. 
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 2.45p a share,
making an unchanged total of 3.65p for the year. The dividend 
is covered 1.2 times by underlying net earnings, compared with 
the previous year's 1.1 times. The final dividend will be paid on 
31 August 2007 to shareholders on the register at 3 August 2007.
Pensions
We have agreed some important changes with the trustees of 
our UK pension scheme. The most important of these involves 
the way annual increases in pension payments are calculated. 
In line with widespread UK practice, increases will in future reflect
price inflation rather than wage inflation. Largely as a result of 
this change, the pension fund deficit, on an IAS 19 basis, reduced 
by  23.7m over the year without the need for additional cash
contributions. The changes will reduce the future cost of the scheme
and resulted in an exceptional gain of  14.7m in the year.
Operational highlights
Our sales growth has continued to build momentum. New contract
wins during the year were again ahead of the previous year -  130m
compared with  120m. We maintained our excellent record of
retaining contracts as they came up for renewal and our healthy
pipeline suggests that we can continue growing the top line, with
the prospect of some of the larger-scale deals that we have been
targeting. We pride ourselves on the service and value that we
deliver for our customers and were particularly pleased to receive 
a General Motors Global Supplier of the Year Award for the
second consecutive year. Our Holistica joint venture, which enables
us to manage global supply chains, is now fully staffed; it has built
its own interesting pipeline of prospects to add to the first
management contract from Marks & Spencer.
We are now working to ensure that our growth is achieved
profitably, to bring the bottom line in step with our progress 
on sales. We must manage our margins better, maximise returns 
on investment and improve under-performing activities. We are
addressing all these issues; and our most pressing priority is to tackle
the impact on our bottom line from the UK Transport business.
In addition to upgrading the central team, we have continued to
restructure individual businesses - primarily the UK and Iberian
Transport businesses and the continental Food and Consumer
business. The exceptional costs that we have incurred to deliver
these changes will be recouped by significant savings in the future.
In our Food and Consumer sector, the UK business had an excellent
year. Improved dedicated contracts and cold store utilisation helped
it to raise underlying operating profit by 21%. Our Support Services
business continued to grow and has been investing to support
expansion plans for continental Europe. Salvesen Foods returned to
profit despite a difficult harvest in summer 2006. On the continent,
we had a more challenging year. The tough pricing environment
demands significant productivity improvement, and it is taking time
and investment to implement the necessary upgrades in transport
and warehousing systems. However, we are now seeing signs of
improvement under new leadership.
David Fish
Chairman
With revenue up by 10% we are on the
front foot again. Now we must increase 
our focus on margin improvement. Christian Salvesen PLC Annual Report 2007 03
 47 .4m
Net earnings increased fourfold to 
 47.4m as we released capital from
existing assets to reduce gearing.
In the Transport sector, our French business continued to grow 
its share of a difficult market, and although margins are tight 
they compare well with local competitors. The Iberian business 
is still growing and has also maintained relatively strong margins; 
but operating profits were reduced by the cost of our network
investment programme and a continuing shortage of subcontractors
that has increased prices. The final phase of our Spanish fleet
restructuring programme was completed by the year-end.
A new managing director and new management team are working
to restore the UK Transport business. Progress during the year was
slower than hoped, due in part to a difficult start-up for our
national tyre distribution partnership with Goodyear Dunlop. The
unplanned start-up costs were a significant factor in the increased
losses for the year. As part of the turnaround plan for our UK
network business, we are investing in new systems to achieve 
rapid improvement in operational efficiency. For the longer term,
we are investigating options that will require more fundamental
infrastructure changes.
Across the Group, the year's major contract wins show that 
we are succeeding in expanding our relationships with existing
customers, entering new sectors and winning larger contracts
involving added-value services.
For example, we have extended our relationship with Ford from
the UK to Spain and France. We have broadened our contracts
with Rockware, Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Carrefour and Le Duff. 
We have moved into ambient food storage and distribution, 
while at Manchester Airport we now provide security screening 
for all retailers: both activities provide platforms for future growth.
Our Iberian Transport business has won several additional
contracts in the textiles sector and the French business won a large
contract from air-conditioner manufacturer Daikin. We have won
e-commerce contracts with Superdrug, Urban Outfitters,
Weightwatchers and Mackays.
Added-value business included a new reverse logistics contract
from Tesco and a contract from the world's leading cash and carry
group to consolidate and distribute stock for its Makro stores in
the UK.
People
In July 2006, Peter Cawdron and Dr Antonie Edelman retired 
from the board after more than eight years of distinguished service
as non-executive directors. I would like to thank both of them for
their contribution through a period of considerable change.
These are challenging times for the business and our continuing
restructuring has made additional demands on people at all levels.
Their response has been tremendous and I am grateful to everyone
for their contribution to our progress. 
Health and safety is the first item on the agenda at all board,
Executive Committee and business unit board meetings. I am
therefore particularly pleased that we have won a Gold Award
from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, and
individual gold awards for four of our UK sites.
Sustainability and environment
It is also encouraging to see continuing improvement in our
environmental impact. Our emphasis on shared-user transport
networks is an inherently carbon-efficient approach to road
transport, and we continue to apply technology to increase our
efficiency. We are also helping customers to improve their waste
management through our reverse logistics operations which
support reuse and recycling and have eliminated many millions 
of cardboard cartons from the supply chain altogether.
Outlook
While market conditions are unlikely to get any easier, our healthy
pipeline makes us confident of continuing revenue growth albeit at
a slower pace than in the past 12 months. Margin improvement is
now the order of the day. We expect to see some benefit from the
restructuring, but we will remain cautious about the overall margin
until we have turned the corner with our Transport businesses,
especially in the UK.
David Fish
Chairman