 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 3
It gives me great pleasure to report on your
Company's progress as it continues to
consolidate its position as a long term chrome
producer in southern Africa.  
During 2009, Chromex completed the
construction of the processing facility at the
Stellite open cast chrome mine ( Stellite') and
achieved plant design capacity in November
2009. The plant was commissioned using
stockpiles mined in the early part of the financial
year, which allowed mining operations at Stellite
to be suspended for the most part of 2009, a
period of adverse market conditions. Based on
strengthening demand, Chromex recommenced
mining operations in January 2010. 
In the latter part of 2009, Chromex concluded
a binding Heads of Agreement to acquire 49%
of Falvect Mining (Private) Limited ( Falvect'), a
company owned and operating in Zimbabwe.
The investment in Falvect is in line with our
strategy of building a broad portfolio of
chrome and related mineral assets across
southern Africa. The timing of the acquisition
was linked to the lifting of the Zimbabwean
ban on exports of chrome ore and fines as
well as the continued economic recovery of
the country.   
With these developments in mind, and
despite the challenging chrome market we
saw in 2009, we continued to invest in our
operations and expand our geographic
footprint in line with our core strategy of
building our business and generating uplift
in value for shareholders.   
Stellite
Chromex's main focus over the last year has
been the development of Stellite, the 271 hectare
project located on the Western Limb of the
Bushveld Complex in South Africa. 
The commissioning of the first phase of the
Stellite chrome beneficiation plant was
completed in August 2009 and by the beginning
of November 2009 this facility was able to
operate at full design capacity, producing 42%
and 44% metallurgical grade chrome
concentrates. All plant feed was sourced from
existing stockpiles at the Stellite mine. Due to
ongoing demand, we recommenced mining
operations at Stellite in January 2010. 
The plant was financed in part by a loan of
ZAR 30 million ( 2.5 million), of which 
ZAR 20 million ( 1.67 million) has been drawn
down and ZAR 10 million ( 0.83 million)
remains undrawn.
Stellite will initially produce approximately
20,000 run of mine ( ROM') tonnes per month,
increasing to 40,000 ROM tonnes per month
when the dense media separation circuit
( DMS') is installed at 
Chairman's statement 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 4
the beneficiation plant. The DMS is expected
to be completed during the third quarter of
2010 and will improve yields, margins and
economic efficiencies. Importantly, in addition
to the capacity increase, Chromex will be in a
position to market a sized lumpy chrome product
as well as the chemical and metallurgical
grade concentrates.
Both the operation of the plant and the mining
activities are sub-contracted. This has proved
invaluable in enabling Chromex to react
quickly to market changes.
Finally, and importantly, in March 2009, Stellite
was granted a positive amendment to its Mining
Right to include Platinum Group Elements
( PGEs') and gold. PGEs, comprising platinum,
palladium and rhodium, are present in small
concentrations in the chromite reefs. T estwork
on the chrome tailings since the plant's
commissioning is showing positive results. 
This testwork is ongoing and a scoping study
relating to the economic recovery of PGEs is
underway. While it would not be economic to
mine at Stellite solely to produce PGEs, their
extraction in conjunction with chromite
potentially increases revenues substantially
going forward, in particular revenues from
the reefs with lower chromite content.   
Mecklenburg
Development of the Company's Mecklenburg
project, located at the Mecklenburg farm on
the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in
the Limpopo Province of South Africa, has
been deferred pending settlement of the legal
issues referred to below. Mecklenburg will be
an underground mine, producing high grade 
ore from the LG6 and LG6A reefs, which
outcrop at surface. Access to the mine will be
via an outcrop portal and access decline on
the lower slopes of Serafa Hill, with on-reef
development and a hybrid trackless/
conventional stope mining method. The
Mecklenburg mine design will be completed
once the legal dispute has been resolved.
In respect of legal and regulatory issues, 
I previously informed shareholders that Samancor
Chrome Limited ( Samancor') applied to the
High Court in South Africa to set aside the
decision to award Chromex a Mining Right,
citing the Minister of Mines, the Department of
Minerals and Energy of the Republic of South
Africa ( DME'), and the regional Director of the
DME in Limpopo Province in its application
and also Chromex Mining Company (Pty) Ltd.,
the holder of the Mining Right. The challenge to
Chromex's Mining Right at Mecklenburg remains
unresolved, largely due to delays in the
process of providing evidence for the court.
Chromex has complied with all requirements
within the stipulated time scales, and, on the
basis of our expert legal advice, the Board is
confident that Chromex is the rightful owner of
the New Order Mining Right granted by the
DME in July 2008. 
Board and Management
The Company has made a number of changes
to its Board and management team as part of
its strategy to assemble a powerful team with
the relevant experience to develop its chrome
mines in southern Africa and become a
leading chrome producer.
Phoevos Pouroulis and Guy Gibbons stepped
down from the Board in June 2009.  Phoevos,
who was responsible for marketing and sales,
is establishing a new multi-commodity trading 
Chairman's statement continued 5 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 5
company, which will include chrome. His
resignation is solely to avoid any potential
conflicts of interest as his new company acts
as a sales agent for Chromex. Finance Director
Guy Gibbons, who was employed by Chromex
for one third of his time, decided to seek a full
time position, which Chromex was unable to
offer. T o compensate for Guy's resignation,
Chromex strengthened the accounting function
in South Africa, where all operations take
place.  I assumed overall responsibility for
finance. The situation will be reviewed when
the mine construction begins at Mecklenburg,
but, should we decide to recruit a dedicated
Finance Director at that time, the position is
likely to be based in Johannesburg rather 
than London. 
Graham Stacey, the Company's Chief Operating
Officer based in the Johannesburg office,
joined the Board in July 2009. Graham is a
qualified mining engineer who had been
operating as a consultant prior to joining
Chromex.
I would like to thank both Phoevos and Guy 
for their contributions towards the successful
development of Chromex. Russell Lamming,
Nigel Wyatt, Graham Stacey and I remain as
Executive Directors of the Company, while
James Burgess, Vusi Nkosi and Robert Sinclair
are Non-executive Directors. 
The achievements of the last year have been
due to the hard work and enthusiasm of the
Directors and employees, and I would like to
thank them on behalf of the Company.
Financial Results
The Group Income Statement shows a loss
before tax of  151,000 (2008 - loss
 1,406,000). After adjusting for future tax
benefits, there is a profit after tax of  195,000
(2008 - loss  1,406,000). These results reflect
the fact that much of the year was taken up
with construction of the Stellite processing
plant, while producing sufficient chrome to
provide positive cash flow, and retaining
valuable chrome resources in the ground
pending an upturn in prices.  
Future Prospects
2009 was a difficult year for the South African
chrome industry, combining general macro-
economic uncertainty with unprecedented
turbulence in demand and price.  In addition,
the South African mining industry has been
significantly impacted by a very strong Rand,
increasing costs and continuing power
constraints. In spite of this, Chromex, has
continued to spend capital on its beneficiation
facilities and mine, and will continue to do so
in the future so as to retain operating flexibility
in an ever-changing environment.   6 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 6
Having recommenced mining operations at
Stellite in January 2010, and with initiatives
underway to increase its profitability, as well
as a solid orebody containing circa 31.9
million tonnes of chromite to utilise, I believe
we have the foundations in place to deliver an
uplift in value for shareholders in 2010.
Additionally, our entry into the Zimbabwean
chrome industry, through our acquisition of
49% of Falvect, is in line with our strategy of
building our portfolio of chrome and related
mineral assets across southern Africa.
Zimbabwe is host to significant high quality
chrome resources and is a very exciting
country to be getting involved in. We look
forward to consolidating and growing our
chrome resources and processing capacity 
in Zimbabwe.
Overall the financial position of Chromex is
strong. With the exception of the plant
construction loan described above, the Group
has no debt. It has approximately  0.8 million
in cash resources, and expects to trade on a
cash positive basis going forward. By sub-
contracting its mining and processing
operations, Chromex has minimised its fixed
costs, and the Directors consider it to be
ideally placed to take advantage of the upturn
in the markets.
Brian Moritz
Chairman
5 March 2010
Chairman's statement continued