 2 C.I. Traders Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to announce C.I. Traders'
results for the year ended 31 January 2004,
which represents our first full financial and
trading year as a combined Group following
the merger of Ann Street and Le Riche in
October 2002.
It has been a very active and productive year
for the Group and, against a sometimes
difficult and subdued trading environment 
in its principal markets, C.I. Traders has seen
profitable growth and made significant
progress towards delivering those benefits
which we indicated at the time of the merger.
I am pleased to report that, before
exceptional items (which I refer to below),
total operating profit increased by 11.5% to
 19.4 million (2003:  17.4 million) on an
increase in turnover of 6.4% to  286.0 million
(2003:  268.9 million). Adjusted earnings per
share, as detailed in note 10, rose 10.8% to
5.63p (2003: 5.08p) reflecting underlying
improvements in most businesses, despite a
year of considerable organisational change
and heavy investment.
Net borrowings at 31 January 2004 amounted
to  59.9 million (2003:  45.5 million) and
reflects the reinvestment of the proceeds of
the divestment of Conquest Inns which had
served to reduce borrowings at the end of the
preceding year. In balance sheet terms, our
net borrowings are just over one-third of
capital employed, which we continue to view
as relatively modest, particularly in view of an
interest cover of over seven times. These key
ratios continue to underline the inherent
financial strength of the Group. In addition,
the Group is currently arranging substantial
long-term borrowing facilities that will enable
us to respond quickly and flexibly to new
business opportunities as they arise.
An independent professional valuation 
of the Group's substantial freehold and
investment property assets took place at the
end of January 2004 producing a total of just
under  150 million, which, together with
leasehold properties, again at current
valuation, totals over  160 million, being
broadly equivalent to year end Shareholders'
Funds. The revaluation also gave us the
opportunity to re-appraise property assets,
particularly those in the Hospitality segment
whose premises'previous carrying values no
longer appeared justified by current market
levels. The accounting rules require us to
charge these non-cash adjustments to the
profit and loss as operating costs and are
shown as exceptionals, but they have no
impact on our underlying trading profits 
and cash flows. These solid property assets,
which substantially underpin C.I. Traders'
balance sheet, should give confidence to
investors whilst providing the Group with 
a unique range of opportunities to extract
additional value in its target markets.
Dividend
Y our Board is recommending an increased net
final dividend of 2.25p per share (2003: 2.00p),
payable on 23 June 2004 to Shareholders 
on the Register on 7 May 2004. The final
dividend, if approved by Shareholders, would
result in the dividends for the year totalling
3.50p per share, which would be covered 
1.61 times by adjusted earnings (2003: 1.57
times). The increase of 0.25p per share is an
improvement of 7.7% and is more than twice
covered by the improvement in adjusted
earnings per share of 0.55p per share.
At a mid market price of 69p per share your
Ordinary shares will produce for an investor 
a gross dividend yield of 6.4% with net assets
per share of almost 71p at up-to-date values.
Y our Board keeps the matter of share
purchases through the market for cancellation
under regular review. With this in mind we
are seeking from you the renewal of the
Board's authority to purchase shares when 
it considers it the most attractive application
of funds available for investment.
People
The Group continues to provide employment
for more than 3,300 people, of which the vast
majority are located in the Channel Islands,
making it the largest private sector employer.
We try to align, as far as possible, our terms
of employment including pension provision
subject to the requirements of remaining
competitive to our customers in each 
market. Whilst over the last decade the
Channel Islands have experienced over-full
employment, with the usual effects of 
wage inflation and unwillingness to adopt
flexible working practices, the last year 
has seen some easement in this pressure.
Nevertheless, as many surveys show,
employee costs in the Channel Islands 
are high when compared with our near
neighbours and this will affect decisions 
on where we choose to have key tasks 
and services provided in future.
As the management organisation structure
put in place at the beginning of the financial
year has settled down, we identified 
four further individuals to be financially
incentivised with the granting of share
options. A total of 280,000 share options
were issued during the year with an exercise
price of 73.5p per share. This brings the 
total options in issue to just under 8,000,000
options over Ordinary shares, which, subject
to performance conditions, are exercisable
three years after issue. These are viewed as
an important way of aligning shareholder
and senior management financial objectives.
The organisation structure continues to 
be kept under review as the integration 
of businesses develop to ensure we have 
the most appropriate and cost effective
senior management resource for present 
and future requirements.
TomH. Scott
Chairman
 Adjusted earnings per 
reflecting underlying 
year of considerable  3 C.I. Traders Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 
Board
Y our Board remained unchanged during the
year and its six members beneficially hold
40.5 million Ordinary shares with other non-
beneficial interests in a further 29.3 million
Ordinary shares. Together, this represents
over one-quarter of the Company's
outstanding ordinary share capital, so you
can be confident of the Board's focus on
delivering shareholder value.
The composition and terms of reference of
Board Committees and the trading boards,
which deal with day-to-day operations, have
been reviewed in the light of the experience
of their first year, with appropriate
modifications in hand.
I am pleased to offer myself for re-election
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
along with my colleague Jurat David Lowe.
Les Pas Holdings
Significant developments took place during
the year in respect of Les Pas Holdings'
claim of ownership of waterfront land at 
St Helier, Jersey. A settlement was reached
in September 2003 with the States of Jersey
resulting in the conveyance of waterfront
land within the curtailage of the total area
claimed, on which planning consents for
residential use was given on which the
States of Jersey placed at a market value 
of  10 million. I was pleased to have taken
a leading part as Chairman of Les Pas
Holdings since 2001 in reaching an amicable
settlement of this claim which had been
running for over ten years with little real
prospect of settlement until quite recently.
At the time of the merger in 2002, C I
Traders inherited, through its subsidiary Ann
Street Group Limited, an interest of 12.3%
in Les Pas Holdings'ordinary share capital
but any benefit will only be received once
the underlying waterfront land asset has
been realised into cash. Our investment is
carried in our Balance Sheet at cost.
Channel Islands Developments
The assets and businesses of the Group are
predominantly located in the Channel Islands
and our prospects are inextricably linked with
those of the Islands as a whole. The most
significant influence on their economies has
been the external pressure to change their
fiscal regime to mitigate harmful tax
competition globally. This has overtaken 
the previous dominant effect of a strongly
growing financial services industry and
commensurate decline in tourism and
agriculture. The Islands continue to restrict
economic and population growth below
levels that open markets would support.
Whilst uncertainty prevails over future fiscal
arrangements the financial services sector
may not continue to pressurise the demand
for resources in the Islands to the extent it
has during the last twenty years. Also the
relatively high costs of employees and
business accommodation can make off-Island
service provision relatively more attractive.
The outcome of the public debate is unclear
as yet. However, there are encouraging signs
that the respective authorities will be able 
to produce internationally acceptable fiscal
regimes and retain the Islands'leading
position as a financial services provider. It is
to be hoped that this is not seen as a chance
to avoid the radical reduction in the scale of
current public expenditure, with the burden
increasingly falling on the local businesses
through a variety of taxes, duties and levies.
Directly and indirectly, the Group generates
and pays over to the insular authorities
something like  25 million in taxes, duties,
Social Security payments, and the like and
has a legitimate interest in obtaining value 
for that money.
The burden of cutting public expenditure
should not be borne disproportionately by
investment in infrastructure projects which
should improve the future well-being of the
Islands. The war of words continues but we
remain apprehensive of the ability of the
public sector's commitment to reduce costs.
Prospects
Whilst the out-turn for the year now closed
showed a worthwhile improvement in
profit, we are confident that most of the
benefits envisaged at the time of bringing
Ann Street and Le Riche together have yet
to be realised.
We are pleased with the combined group's
progress to-date and these satisfactory results,
against a subdued trading environment,
should be viewed as a platform upon which
we can build to move forward vigorously.
A number of initiatives will begin to bear fruit
during the new financial year and with our
infrastructure, assets and exciting range of
opportunities, I look forward to the future
with confidence.
I look forward to meeting as many of you 
as possible at our Annual General Meeting
in June.
Tom H. Scott
Chairman
27 April 2004
share rose 10.8% to 5.63p (2003: 5.08p) 
improvements in most businesses, despite a
organisational change and heavy investment.'