 Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement
Our immediate focus is upon delivering the open bids 
we have identified, all of which are with prospective
purchasers practicing renal medicine. We have won 
two contracts in the first two months of the current 
year and look to maintain this rate throughout the year.
We are pleased to present our
report for the year ended 
31 December 2003.
At the time of the publication of our
half-year results, five customers were
using Clinical Vision 4 (CV4 ). We now
have seven customers using CV4 with
a further three customers currently
implementing CV4. All 10 customers
have acquired CV4 to enhance their
renal dialysis patient care. These
customers are primarily large teaching
hospitals or for-profit dialysis clinics
that require a robust clinical information
system. The Group developed CV4 as
a generic clinical information system
based on its cumulative expertise
serving the clinical healthcare markets
in the USA and UK. CV4 provides the
Group with the opportunity to move into
other clinical modalities, leveraging its
leadership position in renal medicine
and transplantation.
During the year under review we
experienced significant delays in
purchasing decisions by target
customers for CV4 in our primary
geographic markets of the USA and
UK. In the UK, the deferral of
purchasing decisions arose from
uncertainty over the government's
National Programme for IT (NPfIT ),
which has redefined the IT procurement
process within the English National
Health Service (NHS ). The NHS is
now divided into five clusters, each
served by a Local Service Provider
(LSP ) for the purpose of
implementing and integrating IT
solutions. Each of the five clusters
now has a designated LSP , and we
anticipate that spending on clinical
information systems will increase
relative to recent years. Initially, much
of the investment under the NPfIT 
is expected to go to improving
infrastructure within the NHS, but
your directors believe that clinically
focused products like CV4 will be
needed to deliver the UK government's
goal of utilising technology to improve
the healthcare system's overall
effectiveness. In the US market, some
of the funding for renal medicine comes
from either the federal or state
governments. During the second half
of 2003, target customers in the US
encountered a slow down in their
expected cash flow from government
reimbursement programmes, and this
resulted in the postponement of
capital acquisitions. We anticipate
that these funding constraints will not
continue through 2004. During this
calendar year, we have already
finalised two new contracts for CV4
from US customers one of which was
delayed from 2003 because of
funding constraints.
During the second half of 2003, the
Company also pursued open bids
outside its core market of renal
medicine. This process highlighted the
uniqueness of these non-renal  acute
care modalities and through tailoring
CV4 over time your directors maintain
their belief that the Company is
positioned to exploit the opportunities
in these markets.
2 Clinical Computing Plc Placing and open offer
During the year under review, the
Company completed a placing and
open offer at 40p issuing 6,430,051
ordinary 5p shares and raising
 2,163,713, net of expenses and
increasing the Company's allotted
share capital by 26 per cent. The
directors subscribed for 11 per cent
of the placing and open offer, which
diluted their overall ownership of the
Company from 36 per cent to 31 
per cent. The net proceeds of this
fundraising have enabled the
Company to secure recent contracts
on more favourable terms, provided
working capital to fund operations,
and provided our current prospects
with confidence that the Company will
be able to honour long-term contract
commitments.
At the time of the placing and open offer
we were pursuing 15 open bids, where
we believed that we were one of two
final vendors competing for the contract.
To date, of the 15 bids, three have
been won, and one was lost. We
continue active dialogue with these
prospects and are in on-going contract
negotiations with several at this time. 
Trading results
As a result of delays in purchasing
decisions by our identified target
customers in the second half of 2003,
results for the year reflect a lower
volume of contracts won than
expected. Turnover for the year of
 1,858,828 (2002:  2,391,565)
produced an operating loss of
 1,138,501 (2002: loss  858,610).
After net interest and taxes the loss
for the year was  1,236,892 (2002:
loss  955,488). The loss per share
was 4.5p (2002: loss per share 3.8p). 
Operating review
The Group's turnover continues to be
derived from the provision of software
and services in the area of clinical
information solutions for healthcare
organisations, primarily those that
specialise in renal medicine. For the
year ended 31 December 2003 the
Group saw a reduction in turnover of
22 per cent when compared to the
same period in the previous year. 
The Group derived 75.6 per cent
(2002: 81.0 per cent) of its turnover
from the USA and the weakening of
the dollar in the second half of 2003
reduced our overall turnover on a
comparative basis by six per cent.
The remaining 16 per cent decrease
was the result of less licence and
service work due to the delays in
securing contracts noted above.
The Group's main source of revenue
continues to be from maintenance
contracts for its software products:
PROTON, di-PROTON, RENLStar
and Clinical Vision (versions 3 and 4).
Turnover from maintenance and
support contracts decreased eight per
cent when compared to the prior year
and accounted for 63.8 per cent of
total turnover (2002: 54.1 per cent).
This decrease is principally attributable
to the weakening of the US dollar.
The Group had 102 customers under
maintenance contracts at the end of
2003 (2002: 106).
During the year under review operating
costs were eight per cent lower than
in 2002. The majority of this reduction
(five per cent) was the result of
translation gains resulting from a weaker
US dollar against Sterling than the
prior year. The balance of the savings
(three per cent) is attributable to moving
our UK headquarters on more favourable
lease terms and reducing our average
staff count by four people.
Cash flows
During the year under review the
Group continued its investment in
CV4 and the majority of total
development costs of  854,601 went
into this product (2002:  912,038).
The Group started the year with cash
resources of  488,089 and in
September added the net proceeds
from the placing and open offer of
 2,163,716. During the year
operations required cash of  994,236
(2002:  1,044,142). The Group's
ending cash balance (including short
term deposits) at 31 December 2003
was  1,749,977.
Physicians Dialysis selected
Clinical Vision after an
extensive evaluation of the
competitive landscape. In
making our final decision,
Physicians Dialysis
considered several critical
factors: Clinical Vision's
superior function and
flexibility and Clinical
Computing's solid reputation
for delivering excellent
service and support. We
believe that the Clinical
Vision program will give
Physicians Dialysis a
competitive advantage in the
market and more importantly,
provide an essential resource
in our continuing effort to
enhance the quality of our
patients' lives 
Keith Jones, 
VP and Chief Financial Officer,
Physicians Dialysis Inc.
Case Study
Physicians 
Dialysis 
Superior function
and flexibility 
Report & Accounts 03 3 Board changes
Mike Gordon and Conrad Venn, two
of the Company's founding directors,
have decided to step down from the
Board effective 5 March 2004. Mike
previously served as Chairman from
1997 to 2002. Mike, together with
Conrad, our technical director, led the
product direction that has become
CV4 and we thank them both for 
their contributions. We are currently
seeking a new non-executive director.
Market opportunity
In all of our selected geographic markets
- the UK, US and Australasia - we
experienced growing interest in clinical
information systems from clinicians and
administrators who are required to
balance increasing patient expectations
and regulatory requirements with
delivering cost effective treatments.
Likewise, healthcare organisations 
as well as governmental bodies are
increasingly interested in seeing
efficiency gains from the use of
management software in medicine.
Today CV4 serves a niche market by
providing renal healthcare workers
with a robust tool to manage their
patients' records. Your directors
believe that the investment made in
recent years has positioned the Group
well to take advantage of opportunities
in the renal healthcare market, as well
as other acute care specialties.
Industry analysts are predicting that
the compound annual spending growth
on IT from the hospital sector will be
significant in our chosen geographic
markets. The Group's focus is to
capitalise on these market trends,
producing growth from its core
strength of renal medicine in the short
term while looking to exploit the CV4
technology in other medical areas
over time.
Outlook
Our immediate focus is upon
delivering the open bids we have
identified, all of which are with
prospective purchasers practising
renal medicine.
In addition to ongoing maintenance
revenue, the Group currently has
three CV4 contracts to deliver and a
total order backlog in excess of
 400,000. While in prior years
maintenance revenues have been a
large percentage of total revenue our
focus throughout 2004 will be on
securing new customers and
increasing our non-maintenance
revenue. We have won two contracts
in the first two months of the current
year and look to maintain this rate
throughout the year.
With reference sites in both the US
and UK, your directors believe that
the Group is in a position to win more
new business with CV4. For the
current year we continue to see our
revenue growth being generated from
the US renal dialysis market, where
we currently have the majority of our
reference sites and open bids.
Chairman's and Chief Executive's Statement (continued)
For the current year we continue to see 
our revenue growth being generated 
from the US renal dialysis market where 
we currently have the majority of our 
reference sites and open bids.
4 Clinical Computing Plc
H Kitchner /Chairman
05.03.04 
J Richardson /Chief Executive
05.03.04 