 Chairman's Statement
2 Clontarf Energy plc
In a turbulent world with a raging bear market in exploration companies it is hard to find optimistic trends. Yet I believe that the
work done by Clontarf, since listing over a year ago, will provide long term benefits to shareholders. At the time of listing, in
April 2011, the principal assets of the company were in Boliva and Ghana. We had been awarded two new licences onshore
Peru but they had not been ratified. Now the focus is on Peru. Blocks 188 and 183, which are 100% Clontarf owned, were
ratified in September 2011. An analysis of existing data revealed new and unexpected opportunities on Block 188. 
The Business Environment
There are current threats on almost all fronts. The global economic situation needs little explanation. Uncertainty abounds,
Europe is in recession and the US recovery is weak. Worries about growth rates in the BRIC economies are having a negative
impact on oil and gas prices. Of possibly greater importance is the total loss of confidence by investors in AIM listed resource
stocks. In the case of Clontarf this is exacerbated by Irish investors, suffering from the domestic economic collapse, being
forced to sell. Overall there are few buyers but more sellers. There are technology threats. Shale gas is having a massive impact
on the structure of the world gas industry. It is likely, as the technology to recover shale gas expands, that world gas prices will
fall. Shale oil is at an earlier stage of development but could have an equally critical impact on prices. The political situation
facing Clontarf is fraught. Resource nationalism is rising in many areas. We operate in Boliva where the state took ownership of
all minerals in 2008 and we have legacy assets in Iran. Though the oil industry has boomed in Ghana as yet we see no evidence
of rising nationalism.
Peru
In recent months we have undertaken a detailed review and reprocessed all available well log and seismic data of our blocks.
We were delighted to discover, on Block 188, details of a 1999 well drilled by Phillips, which encountered high quality oil. The
Panguana well hit 4 hydrocarbon horizons but only one was tested. Further research by Clontarf revealed that Phillips staff
estimated that the structure encountered could, on a P50 estimate, contain up to 31 million barrels of oil. Why then was this not
followed up? Oil prices were low. The area was extremely remote with no oil infrastructure within hundreds of kilometres and
Peruvian oil terms were tough. Thirteen years later this situation is transformed. The giant Camisea gas/condensate complex is
on stream about 100kms away from Panguana, oil prices are high and Peruvian oil licence terms are now attractive. Clontarf
has put together a proposal to re-enter the well to test all horizons. Detailed discussions are on-going with potential partners
who would fund the re-entry in return for a percentage interest. If the discussions are successful, there will be no cash cost to
Clontarf. It is important to note that it is the Company's intention that the Panguana area will be carved out of the 600,000 hectare
188 block. This means that the rest of the block can be worked on independently. The review of the overall block has identified
a number of leads. Here again the improved oil price, better terms and Camisea infrastructure reduce the risk while improving
the basic economics. We are in early stage discussions with joint venture partners. 
Our second block in Peru, Block 183, covers almost 400,000 hectares in the central part of the Mara on basin - an area of
major hydrocarbon production. Clontarf has obtained and reprocessed extensive seismic data in addition to well log data on
five drill holes on the block. A further 200kms of seismic remains to be reprocessed. Five important leads have been identified.
A further 150km of historic seismic will be acquired and interpreted to better define these leads.
Ghana
Clontarf holds 60% in a subsidiary which has an interest in the Tano 2A onshore/offshore block in Ghana. Our partners are, Petrel
Resources (30%) and a local Ghanaian company (10%). A Petroleum Agreement was signed by the Ghanaian National Petroleum
Company (GNPC) with Clontarf in 2010. The agreement is subject to cabinet and parliamentary approval. This is taking an
extended time and is frustrating to all concerned. Since we first looked at Tano in 2006 and then signed a preliminary agreement
in 2008, the area has become one of the hottest oil provinces in the world. Directly offshore Tano, a number of bonanza oil
discoveries have been made. The Jubilee field is now on stream with daily output already in excess of 100,000 barrels. While
awaiting ratification Clontarf and partners acquired and reworked all available seismic, well and other technical data. We have
identified a number of specific leads which we would look to refine with more seismic and/or drilling. We are working with the GNPC
to refine the proposal which goes to cabinet and parliament. We remain hopeful that the process can be concluded in 2012.
300669 Energy Report  21/06/2012  11:10  Page 2 Chairman's Statement (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3
Bolivia
We have operated in Bolivia for more than 20 years. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Petrolex, holds interests in two projects, the
producing Monteagudo gas/oil field in central Bolivia and an interest in the El Dorado gas field in eastern Bolivia. The legal
status of title is unclear in Bolivia. In 2008 the state claimed ownership of all minerals and hydrocarbons. Sensibly, they allowed
existing operations to continue working. Payment was by means of production out of which was taken tax/royalty rate of 50%
of revenue.
The Clontarf interest in Monteagudo is 30%, with the operator Repsol owning 30% and Petrobas 20% and Andina-YPFB 20%.
Monteagudo is an old field producing gas and condensate since the 1960s. It is well located on a pipeline to Argentina. The
attraction in Monteagudo is the deep target. The Huamampampa (Devonian) formation has a number of massive gas discoveries
in the areas around Monteagudo. The probability of a large gas discovery is good. We have an agreement with the other partners
to increase our stake to a majority. We will also look to become operator. Funding is proposed to be provided by our proposed
new partners who will buy out the remaining interests. The agreement requires cabinet and parliamentary approval.
The Clontarf interest in El Dorado, 10%, is currently in dispute. El Dorado is estimated to contain up to 400 billion cubic feet of
gas and 8 to 10 million barrels of condensate. It is in production at a rate of 20 million cubic feet of gas a day. Confusion over
the Bolivian nationalisation decree led Clontarf to declare force majeure on further drilling. The then partner, BP , drilled and cash
called Clontarf. An agreement was reached in 2010 whereby Clontarf would make a contribution to historic costs, pay for
current costs and forego income until all historic costs were paid. Listing and consequent funding delays made it impossible
for Clontarf to meet deadlines. Negotiations are ongoing to reinstate the 2010 agreement.
Clontarf was formed by merging Persian Gold, an Iranian gold explorer with Hydrocarbon Exploration, the remnants of Pan
Andean which had been sold. Persian Gold held interests in two mineral licences in Iran. A payment of $350,000 has been
received for cancelling an option to acquire a 70% interest in a Dalli copper licence. In the event of production commencing at
the Chah-e-Zard silver gold deposit Clontarf will receive a revenue royalty.
Hydrocarbon held assets in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. There is a long drawn out dispute between the then owner
Endeavour Oil and Gas, a subsidiary of Pan Andean Resources and Hunt Oil over expenses incurred by Hunt in removing
closed oil wells on one block. A court decree for $4m was obtained by Hunt Oil against Endeavour Oil and Gas, the Texan
subsidiary of Hydrocarbon Exploration. Endeavour's assets were transferred to Hunt Oil on foot of this decree. Hunt has initiated
proceedings seeking to make Hydrocarbon liable for any deficit. We believe that there is no merit in the proceedings and are
moving to have them dismissed.
Future
Investors have yet to realise the value potential in the Peruvian assets. We are confident of negotiating a joint venture on Panguana
and a farm in on the remainder of Block 188. The leads identified on our second block, Block 183, will provide the basis of future
joint venture negotiations. The type of deal we are seeking on Panguana will finance Clontarf for the coming year. We are in the
midst of the worst bear market in AIM listed resource shares since the start of AIM in 1995. Good news is downplayed and bad
news is magnified. When confidence returns markets will see significant uplifts. In the meantime directors must husband cash and
develop projects. It is important that directors are not driven totally by short term trends in share prices. Our task is to create long
term wealth for investors. Natural resource projects take time but real wealth can be created.
Chairman
21 June 2012
300669 Energy Report  21/06/2012  11:10  Page 3