 Chairman's Statement
2 Clontarf Energy plc
Clontarf Energy was formed in 2010 by reversing the unlisted Hydrocarbon Exploration Plc into Persian Gold Plc and then relisting.
Hydrocarbon Exploration contained oil and gas prospects in Boliva, Ghana and the United States, interests which were spun out of the
acquisition of Pan Andean Resources by Petrominerales. Persian Gold, an AIM listed Iranian gold explorer severely impacted by sanctions
on Iran, needed a new direction. During the extended listing process two new Peruvian exploration licences were acquired by
Hydrocarbon Exploration.
On listing Clontarf Energy held 60% of a licence agreement on the Tano 2A block in Ghana, 100% of two onshore licences in Peru, as
well as interests in Bolivia and in the US which were valued at nominal sums. The Bolivian interests were subject to a nationalisation
decree and legal uncertainties while an on-going court case in Texas made valuing the US assets a difficult task. Our strategy was simple
- develop the Ghanaian block and farm out the two Peruvian blocks while holding on to what we could in Bolivia. The focus on Ghana
continues.
Ghana
The Directors believe that the Tano 2A block in Ghana is a top class prospect. We knew Ghana having explored for gold over many years.
We saw potential in the offshore but the financial commitment would have been too big for us. In 2008 we signed an agreement on
Tano 2A - a shallow offshore/onshore block. We signed a revised agreement in 2010 with the Ghanaian National Petroleum Company
(GNPC). The agreement requires cabinet and parliamentary approval which is awaited. In 2010/2011 we gathered and acquired all
available historical data and using the latest technology reviewed the potential of the Tano 2A block. We believe that we have identified
a number of good quality leads. Our advisors believe that oil has migrated northwards from the deeper offshore reservoirs where big
discoveries have been made. There are numerous seepages onshore some of which were worked over 100 years ago. Further seismic
will be shot to define targets once the ratification process is completed. During the three year wait for ratification we have remained
fully engaged with the GNPC. We have put in place an insurance bond covering half of the initial three year agreed work programme,
though there is no requirement for this in our contract.
Clontarf is not alone in awaiting licence ratification, we understand that numerous other agreements are in the queue. Ghana has had
outstanding exploration success and there is significant upside potential on the blocks where agreements have been signed.
Peru
We were pleased in October 2010 when Clontarf was awarded two exploration licences over two large onshore blocks in the Peruvian
jungle - Block 183 covering nearly 400,000 hectares located in North Central Peru and Block 188, covering nearly 600,000 hectares, in
the Southern Ucayali basin. Clontarf was the only junior to be awarded licences in that licensing round. We immediately set to work
hoping to repeat the earlier successes we had with four blocks in Peru then held by Pan Andean Resources, the forerunner of Clontarf.
We obtained, analysed and reviewed available seismic and well log data and were heartened to identify what we believed to be
excellent leads, prospects and targets. An extensive farm out process began in 2011. Our prior work had given us a contact list and the
credibility to gain access. Over a period of 18 months, over 50 presentations were made in Canada, North America, South America and
Europe. The expectation was of a deal to recover all prior costs together with at least a 20% carry through the initial work programme
plus one well. More than ten companies signed the Confidentiality Agreement and received the data.
There was interest from potential farminees and terms were discussed. Gradually interested parties faded away until by the end of 2012
we were left with a number of local groups and one international consortium. A Memorandum of Agreement was signed in late 2012
with the international consortium. Despite continued discussions a final deal never materialised. An agreement in principle was reached
with a South American group. Once again the deal never completed. Now time became a threat. As licence holder, Hydrocarbon
Exploration was obliged to put up a $500,000 performance bond by mid-March for Block 188 and another by mid-May for Block 183.
We were assured by all parties concerned that a deal would be completed in time. This became unlikely. Peruvian Oil and Gas Exploration
Ltd (POGEL), a private group, had approached us in early 2013 with a specific proposal related to sourcing gas for electricity generation.
As the deadline for bond placement loomed, the board decided against raising funds to put up the bonds, as we were not able to farm
out, so we either gave up the blocks or negotiated with POGEL. The royalty deal announced was not well received by the market
because no cash was received. A royalty agreement of 3%, though capped at US$5 million per commercial discovery, has the same
impact as a bigger free carry through to production because it is before costs. Chairman's Statement (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3
How did this happen? We were running out of time and our expectation of significant multinational interest was wrong. We continue
to believe that Peru is a prospective country for hydrocarbons with good commercial terms but the international oil industry appears to
think otherwise. Delays due to bureaucracy, political posturing, environmental constraints and indigenous peoples' opposition are
impacting badly on investor perceptions. Supporting this view is the fact that the parties interested at the end were either local or
overseas companies with local interests.
It has cost significant sums to undertake the preliminary work on the blocks, to undertake the long farm out process, to pay training
grants and to run the Peruvian operation. In March 2013 Hydrocarbon borrowed $400,000 from a financial institution in Lima, Peru to
meet its commitments. This one year loan has a 10% coupon. The lenders have indicated that they will convert into shares in Clontarf
Energy at the prevailing price of any future fundraise. The Board believes that the geology of the blocks is good. POGEL is expected to
drill targets already identified by Clontarf. 
Bolivia
After operating in Bolivia since 1988 we reluctantly deem it necessary to make full provision in the accounts for the remaining asset
value of around  850,000. In 2010 a law was enacted nationalising all hydrocarbon assets. The implementation of this statute is
confusing. Clontarf holds a 30% interest in the producing Monteagudo gas and oil field. We believe there is a high probability of
significant gas reserves in deeper formations on the block. Our partners are Petrobras, Repsol and Andina -YPFB. Together with an
Argentinian company we negotiated a deal with our partners for them to exit the block and for the interest of Clontarf to increase to
50%. This requires cabinet and parliamentary approval. No progress has been made in the past year. Title remains unclear. A similar
situation exists on the El Dorado gas field where Clontarf claims a 10% ownership. We did not meet cash calls because there was or is
no certainty of title. So we claimed force majeure. We subsequently negotiated a deal with the state oil company YPFB to regain the
10% interest by paying back costs. Again lack of clarity on what exactly we would own meant that we did not make the payments. We
will attempt to recover what we can by available means including arbitration, legal action and selling Petrolex, the Bolivian subsidiary.
In 2001 the then Pan Andean acquired a UK company, Endeavour Oil & Gas Ltd., which had a US subsidiary with onshore and offshore
oil/gas assets. The purchase price was $13 million. The operation was profitable until falling gas prices as a result of the shale gas
revolution led to losses in Endeavour. In total since 2001 Clontarf and Pan Andean received over $7 million from Endeavour - not a good
investment. Meanwhile a disagreement with Hunt Oil, the operator of our High Island 30 oil platform, relating to a well abandonment
led, to a court case in Texas. Judgement was given against Endeavour Oil & Gas Inc., the local Texan subsidiary owned by Petrolex, our
subsidiary. Hunt was offered ownership of Endeavour but declined. Hunt initiated legal cases against Endeavour, its directors and
Hydrocarbon Exploration. Our legal advice is that there is no legal recourse to Clontarf Energy.
Clontarf was born at a difficult time. The AIM market in London was imploding for exploration ventures. New funding sources dried up
and have stayed dry. We listed in 2011 with less than  2 million in cash but with high hopes for our activities in Ghana and Peru. Over
$1 million has been spent on the Ghanaian block while awaiting ratification. In Peru we spent money keeping the new licences in good
standing, identifying prospects and attempting to farm out. The farm out did not happen in the way it was envisioned. The royalty
agreement negotiated provides some potential future value to the company. As the farm out process dragged on local costs in Peru
were funded by a locally sourced loan. The lenders have indicated a willingness to accept shares for sums due. To preserve Company
funds no salaries or fees have been paid to the three principal directors since the company was formed.
The directors will support a new fundraising and it is also the intention that sums due to directors and the Peruvian loans will be
converted into shares as part of any future fundraising. This will help strengthen the balance sheet. 
Clontarf is focused on Ghana licence ratification and will then build on the extensive work already undertaken. We will maintain our
royalty interest in Peru and we will seek to dispose of Petrolex which holds the Bolivian and United States interests.
Chairman
29 May 2013