 02
16312 28/05/2009       Proof 8
2008 has been a pivotal year in the 
development of your Company. It was the 
year which saw us emerge from explorer  
to producer  . 
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
Gold pour at the Kalsaka Gold Mine, Burkina Faso.
Dear Shareholder, 
2008 has been a pivotal year in the 
development of your Company. It was the 
year which saw us emerge from explorer  
to producer  . Two mines were brought into 
production and our flagship exploration 
project continued to improve. I will not deny 
that, at times, operational challenges have 
been tough, but with a good team, hard 
work and a little luck we have ended the year 
in much better shape than when we began. 
I believe that 2009 will see the fruition of our 
past efforts, with production from both the 
Kalsaka and Angovia Gold Mines improving 
on a monthly basis. I am also pleased to report 
that drilling has restarted at Baomahun where 
the resource will be tested at depth and along 
strike, the results of which could expand that 
resource significantly. 
Operations
Angovia Gold Mine poured its first gold in 
March 2008. The development timetable 
for this mine had experienced some delays 
from inclement weather and late delivery 
of equipment and, continued to face 
challenges throughout 2008 with poor 
performance from the reconditioned plant 
and equipment and low production rates 
from the mining contractor due to poor 
levels of equipment availability. In order to 
overcome these problems, certain plant and 
equipment were replaced or upgraded and 
the mining contractor increased the size of 
the mining fleet in January 2009. The results 
so far this year have been encouraging, 
with mining performance currently close to 
budget. However, as with most heap leach 
J. G. Cluff
Chairman and Chief Executive
16312CLUFFGOL.indd   02 28/05/2009   18:03 03
Clu!  Gold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
www.clu  gold.com London Stock Exchange Code: CLF Toronto Stock Exchange Code: CFG
16312 28/05/2009       Proof 8
 C  t e d 'Ivoire Burkina Faso Sierra Leone Mali
projects, it takes time for this increase in 
mining performance to translate into gold 
production. That said, I am confident that 
the tide has turned at Angovia and that 
the mine will be fully commissioned by 
mid year.
Kalsaka Gold Mine poured its first gold in 
October 2008 and although this was later 
than expected, the ramp-up of production 
has been as scheduled. Gold production 
in the first quarter of 2009 was 12,890 
ounces and the gold plant has now been 
successfully commissioned. The mining 
contractor was replaced at the year end and 
a newer, larger mining fleet has now been 
deployed. All in all, I am pleased to report 
that operations are on track to achieve 
our forecast gold production of 60,000 
ounces for 2009. 
To bring two gold mines into production 
in the same year in two countries, neither 
of which has a strong mining support 
framework, has been a formidable task and 
I applaud our personnel in C te d'Ivoire, 
Burkina Faso and London for achieving 
this feat.
Exploration
During the year, results from our exploration 
work have significantly increased the 
potential of the Baomahun Gold Project. 
Our Measured and Indicated resources 
categories for Baomahun increased 
sevenfold during this period to over 1.0 
million ounces of gold and results from 
deeper drilled holes indicate the possibility 
of the original open pit resource being 
supplemented by an underground deposit. 
Work has started to test this potential with 
a 15,000 metre drilling programme already 
under way.
Exploration elsewhere during 2008 was put 
on hold as the Group focused its attention 
and funds on bringing the two new gold 
mines into production. 
Acquisition
In February 2008, your Company successfully 
negotiated the acquisition of the remaining 
40% of the Baomahun Gold Project for the 
sum of US$21.8 million, which was to be 
satisfied by the issue of 12.4 million shares in 
your Company, subject to the completion of 
various conditions precedent. In August of 
2008, the last remaining condition, being the 
Government approval of the Mining Lease, 
had been achieved and the shares were duly 
issued. However, during the period from 
February to August 2008, the share price of 
your Company had fallen in line with world 
markets thus creating an unrealisable gain of 
US$9 million which has been credited to this 
year's income statement.
I am very pleased that we acquired 100% 
ownership of the Baomahun Gold Project as I 
believe this project has major potential.
Financing
In March 2008, your Company successfully 
completed a placing of 14,570,000 ordinary 
shares at a price of 88 pence per share and 
raised approximately US$25.4 million before 
expenses. The funds were raised with the 
support of BMO Capital Markets, W H Ireland 
Limited and Smith's Corporate Advisory 
Limited. The funds raised were used to 
complete the construction and development 
of both the Angovia and Kalsaka Gold Mines 
and to complete the exploration drilling at the 
Baomahun Gold Project. 
In September 2008, a US$10 million Loan 
Facility was arranged with RMB Australia 
Holdings Limited to ensure adequate 
working capital during the commissioning 
phase of both gold mines. Currently, 
US$6 million has been drawn down from 
this facility. 
A further fund raising was completed in 
March 2009 which is described below in 
Post balance sheet events.  
Market
Gold remains an enigma   notwithstanding 
its relatively robust performance it continues 
to disappoint its more evangelical supporters 
by failing to erupt though the US$1,000 per 
ounce barrier. This may not altogether be 
a bad thing as I fear that if it does stage a 
sustained rally the law of diminishing returns 
could apply with Governments introducing 
excess profit taxes and workers demanding 
higher wages. It must also be recognised that, 
although the intellectual case for holding 
and investing in gold is very compelling in 
this uncertain economic environment, gold 
has its enemies   notably the civil servants 
and politicians. A high gold price suggests 
they are failing to do their job properly and 
through Central Banks, they have the power 
to hold back the price. At some point, of 
course, even they could be overwhelmed by 
the inflation which they seem to deliberately 
foster. In the meanwhile if gold moves in a 
band between US$850 and US$1,000 per 
ounce our gold mines should provide highly 
satisfactory returns.
Local children from Baomahun village, Sierra Leone Community centre provided to the Baomahun village in Sierra Leone.
16312CLUFFGOL.indd   03 28/05/2009   18:04 04
16312 28/05/2009       Proof 8
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
Post balance sheet events
In February 2009, the Toronto Stock 
Exchange granted approval for the listing 
of your Company's shares on that Exchange 
under the symbol CFG  . Our shares will 
continue to be quoted and traded on AIM 
but I hope that this secondary listing will 
enhance investor choice, improve liquidity 
for shareholders and provide greater access 
for investors in our stock.
In March 2009, your Company successfully 
completed a placing of 20,285,000 ordinary 
shares at a price of 40 pence per share and 
raised approximately US$11.4 million before 
expenses. The funds were raised with the 
support of BMO Capital Markets, Thomas 
Weisel Partners and Smith's Corporate 
Advisory Limited, all of whom I would like 
to thank especially as raising money in this 
current economic climate is not without its 
challenges. The funds raised have enabled 
your Company to commence further 
exploration drilling at the Baomahun Gold 
Project prior to the onset of rains in Sierra 
Leone and will also allow for additional 
drilling at and around the Kalsaka Gold Mine 
in order to increase the mineral resource 
thereby supporting increased throughput at 
that gold mine.
Board
I would like to welcome Ronald Winston and 
Geoffrey Stanley to our Board of Directors, 
both of whom joined at the beginning of 
October. Ronald, best known as Chairman of 
Harry Winston Inc., brings with him a wealth 
of experience of doing business in Africa 
while Geoffrey has many years' experience 
worldwide not only on the technical side but 
also on the corporate side of mining. Both 
Directors are based in North America and will 
be most helpful in supporting our Toronto 
listing. I am very pleased that your Company 
continues to attract such high calibre 
members to the Board.
Conclusion
It is the judgement of some that we 
operate in a politically volatile part of the 
world. This argument could be construed 
as a criticism of virtually anywhere in the 
developing world at the moment. However, 
in West Africa we are involved in countries 
which we believe boast excellent geology  
and which is complemented by sensible 
mining investment codes. In addition, the 
law to which they adhere is based on the 
English and French systems. We have, in the 
countries in which we operate, established 
a sensible and practical partnership with 
the governments with whom we work and, 
whilst there is no denying the complexity 
of operating mines in Africa, I am confident 
that we have the capacity to do so. I would 
like to thank our country teams for their 
hard work and dedication; my fellow Board 
members for their support; and you the 
shareholder for staying with us during one 
of the most tumultuous times in living 
memory.
J. G. Cluff
Chairman and Chief Executive
26 May 2009
J. G Cl Cluff
Local community from the Baomahun village, Sierra Leone.
16312CLUFFGOL.indd   04 28/05/2009   18:04 05
Clu!  Gold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
www.clu  gold.com London Stock Exchange Code: CLF Toronto Stock Exchange Code: CFG
16312 28/05/2009       Proof 8
 C  t e d 'Ivoire Burkina Faso Sierra Leone Mali
Official opening ceremony of the Kalsaka Gold Mine in Burkina Faso. (From left to right) Mr Douglas Chikohora, Technical Director of Cluff Gold plc; The Parliament President, Mr 
Roch Marc Christian Kabor ; The Minister of Mines, Mr Abdoulaye Cisse; The Prime Minister Mr Tertius Zongo; The governor of the north region, Mrs Viviane Compaor ; 
Mr J. G. Cluff, Chairman and Chief Executive of Cluff Gold plc and Mr Patrick Biernaux from IMAR B, Cluff Gold's partner in Kalsaka Mining SA.
16312CLUFFGOL.indd   05 28/05/2009   18:04 06
16312 28/05/2009       Proof 8
Ongoing Projects
Mali
Burkina Faso
C te d'Ivoire
Sierra
Leone
01
 C te d'Ivoire: Angovia Gold Mine
02
 Burkina Faso: Kalsaka Gold Mine
03
 Sierra Leone: Baomahun Gold Project
04
 Mali: Karbasso Gold Prospect
03
01
02
04
Map of Group operations and exploration in West Africa.
In West Africa we are involved in countries 
which boast excellent geology and which 
is complemented by sensible mining 
investment codes.
Why West Africa? 
 Potential for major new discoveries
 Under-explored
 Highly prospective geology
 Investor friendly mining codes
Drilling rig on site 
at Baomahun, 
Sierra Leone.
16312CLUFFGOL.indd   06 28/05/2009   18:04