 This steady improvement has been made possible through the
efforts of Dan Stickel, President of ADC and his team. Dan has
assembled an experienced operating team which is focused on
increasing operating productivity while improving safety and
environmental standards. The Group took over all mining and
processing operations from contractors in July 2006 and had
assembled an operating workforce of 118 full time employees by
30 June 2007. All employees are now working under the
Group's health and safety training programs and operating
standards, injury and accident rates are becoming consistent
with other established, large regional operators.
Management has also been active in building on its existing
asset base at Gauley Eagle with significant new property
acquisitions and by advancing permitting activities to allow for
an expanded production platform as additional markets are
developed. During the 2007 calendar year the Group acquired
approximately 2,760 acres of additional coal properties
adjacent to or synergistic with the Gauley Eagle property,
increasing the size of Atlantic Leaseco's properties to
approximately 17,739 acres. 
As the Group has continued to establish itself as a reliable
supplier delivering consistently high quality products, it has
been able to expand its marketing efforts. Initial shipments were
marketed on the spot market and limited to customers that
could be supplied by truck. The Group has been focusing on
developing a range of transportation alternatives,
encompassing both rail and barge loading, which could greatly
Coal International's third year since listing
on AIM was marked by significant
continued growth in its United States
operations as the Company established
itself as an important new coal producer
in West Virginia, located in the Central
Appalachian region of the United States.
West Virginia
Following the acquisition of three coal properties during the
previous reporting period the Company now has two principal
mining operations: Atlantic Leaseco and Maple Coal. The
Company operates through its wholly-owned US operating
subsidiary Atlantic Development and Capital LLC (ADC ) and its
subsidiaries Atlantic Leaseco LLC and Maple Coal Co. During the
period, the Group substantially expanded operations at the
Atlantic Leaseco property and commenced development of its first
underground mine at the Maple Coal property. Coal production
and sales increased in each quarter and the Company reported
production of 561,192 tons of marketable coal and sales of
587,649 tons for the year ending 30 June 2007. 
The Atlantic Leaseco facility is now operating at a sustainable
rate of production of 750,000 tons per annum of marketable coal
with the current equipment and labour configurations. The Eagle
No. 1 underground mine at the Maple Coal operation
commenced production in June 2007 and is currently increasing
its operations with the goal of achieving a sustained production
rate of 720,000-750,000 marketable tons per annum. 
Chairman's Statement
02 Coal International Plc  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 both. Anglo and Hillsborough Resources Limited have agreed to
pay NEMI's required contribution to the Joint Venture until the
end of December 2007 up to an amount of US$18million.
Thereafter, NEMI will be subject to joint venture capital calls and
potential dilution. 
In order to take a more active role in helping NEMI to bring
value to its shareholders, Coal International Directors W. Durand
Eppler and John Byrne joined the NEMI Board of Directors on
20 March 2007. The NEMI Board is reviewing a range of
strategic alternatives for the company.
Financial
In recognition of the rate of growth and development of the
Group, the Board was pleased to appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP
as the Company's auditors in June 2007.
Following the identification of a number of misstatements and
missing disclosures in the financial statements for the year
ended 30 June 2006, the Board requested a review of the
financial controls of the Group including a review of the 2006
report and financial statements. These items have now been
corrected and the restated amounts are set out in the 2006
comparatives along with appropriate disclosures with full
explanation included in note 1 of the 2007 financial statements. 
The loss before tax for the year was  12.4 million (restated 2006:
 8.1 million). The loss for 2006 as previously reported was  5.4
million.  1.4 million of the  2.7 million increase is accounted for
by the adoption of FRS20 Share Based Payments. The balance of
 1.3 million relates primarily to a reassessment of mineral rights
and restoration provisions. The net assets at 30 June 2007 were
 58.6 million (restated 2006:  62.9 million). The net assets as
previously reported for 2006 were  55.1 million. The increase of
 7.7 million has arisen primarily from revisiting the fair value
accounting of acquisitions completed during that year.
The Board is satisfied that the internal controls across the
Group have been reviewed and the issues and areas requiring
improvement have been identified. Implementation of
strengthened financial controls at the Group and Company
level is an active process with ongoing development. The
Board receives monthly management accounts from both ADC
and Energybuild and believes the accounting functions within
ADC and Energybuild are effective. The Company has recently
recruited a dedicated financial controller and intends to recruit
a finance director. In the meantime, Cambrian Mining Plc's
Finance Director continues to provide support to the Company's
finance and accounting functions. Further, to strengthen the
governance of the Company, the Board intends to identify and
invite additional independent non-executive directors to assist
in overseeing the Company's affairs.
The financing activities of the Group included the raising of
 8.1 million in cash, net of expenses, by the Company through a
placing in May 2007. ADC also finalised a US$7 million third
party equipment financing package with CIT Equipment Finance
in May 2007.
expand the potential marketing range for the Group's coal
products. The Group is now negotiating medium term contract
business with a number of key customers which, if completed,
will represent an important milestone and demonstrate
recognition of the Group's increasing stature in the market
place. In addition, with two coal preparation plants and
operations capable of producing coal from a number of
alternative seams, each with particular chemistry and
characteristics, as well as purchased third-party coal from
specific operations, the Group has begun utilising its production
capability to produce specific coal blends for customers. These
blended products enable the Group to earn an improved
margin and utilise its resource base more efficiently.
Investments
Energybuild Group Plc (Energybuild )
On 6 August 2007 (subsequent to the reporting period)
Energybuild was admitted to trading on AIM following the
raising of approximately  15.0 million ( 9.7 million net of loan
repayments and expenses) to finance the Energybuild group's
development and operations. Immediately prior to Energybuild's
listing, Coal International held 50 per cent. of the issued capital
of Energybuild and, as a result of the placing, Coal
International's holding has decreased to its current shareholding
of 23.08 per cent.. Coal International's major shareholder,
Cambrian Mining Plc, currently holds a further 27.51 per cent. of
Energybuild. 
Energybuild has continued to develop its drift mine and
opencast activities in South Wales. With the increased price of
world coal, the main activity of Energybuild has been to
accelerate the mine development with a view to achieving
production of 440,000 saleable tonnes per annum within the
next three years and 770,000 saleable tonnes per annum within
the next six years.
A number of milestones were reached in pursuing this strategy,
including successfully accessing and recovering the old British
Coal intake and returns across the Pentreclwydau fault at the
Aberpergwm Colliery in September 2007. This allowed access to
the 18 foot landing where underground production will resume. 
NEMI Northern Energy & Mining Inc. (NEMI )
Coal International holds a 20.1 per cent. interest in NEMI, a
Vancouver based coal investment company. NEMI's principal
asset is a 20 per cent. stake in the Peace River Coal Joint
Venture, managed by Anglo Coal Canada (Anglo ) (60 per
cent.), which operates the Trend coal mine in northeastern
British Columbia, Canada and other development projects in the
region. The principal asset of the Peace River Coal Joint Venture
is a 50 per cent. stake in the Belcourt-Saxon Joint Venture with
Western Canadian Coal (50 per cent.), which is advancing a
major new metallurgical coal project through the permitting and
feasibility stage.
The Peace River Coal Joint Venture was entered into in
December 2006, with NEMI, Anglo and Hillsborough Resources
Limited each contributing properties or cash or a mixture of
03 04 Coal International Plc  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Outlook
As at 30 June 2007, Coal International has invested
approximately  40.7 million (US$80.5 million) to develop its
West Virginia coal business. The Group has established itself
as a respected new entrant into the US coal industry with a
solid operating base and an impressive platform for future
growth. 
Looking forward to 2008, the Company intends to continue to
seek a permit to open the Eagle No. 2 mine, planned for late
in the 2008 calendar year, which will enable the installation of
a third mining unit in the Eagle seam. These activities are
intended to bring metallurgical coal production from Maple
Coal to approximately one million tons per annum by the end
of the 2009 financial year. Subject to permitting and
settlement of marketing contracts, the Company also hopes to
establish its first surface mining operating unit at the Maple
property during the 2008 calendar year.
At the Atlantic Leaseco property, we will continue operations at
the Silo Mains underground and Crooked Run surface mines
and will seek permits to open new surface and underground
mining operations to maintain production as reserves at the
current mines are exhausted. Simultaneously, we are
continuing to seek permits to establish surface and
underground operations in the Peerless seam reserve blocks
which were acquired in this reporting period. First production
from these reserve blocks is anticipated to occur in 2009.
The Company is closely following activities at Energybuild as it
looks to accelerate development of its first coal operations.
Management is also continuing to work with NEMI's operating
team to explore new development opportunities.
John Byrne
Chairman
19 December 2007
Chairman's Statement
continued