 Page 4 COE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Chairman's Statement
Highlights
  Full year turnover up 17% to  5.33 million, second half revenues lower at  1.94 million
  Gross margin of 42.4%
  Full year overheads down by 9% and will reduce further through cost reduction programme
  Loss before tax of  1.19 million
  New products and services launched
  Manufacturing outsourced
Review of Operations
COE develops, supplies and maintains digital video surveillance systems including MPEG-4 codecs (which digitally compress video
pictures so that they can be transmitted efficiently around digital networks), control-room systems and recording systems. COE also has
a 16 year track record delivering analogue CCTV systems to high profile customers around the world and continues to supply and
support equipment for analogue systems. COE's digital range is used in new installations and is also extensively used for adding digital
features to existing analogue systems.
COE is focused on three market segments where the Group has a strong reference list of installed projects. The segments are transport,
urban surveillance and heavy industrial applications. Contract wins in the latter segment during the period included a project through
Alcatel to the South Pars gas field in Iran which holds over 25% of the world's identified gas reserves.
Major project shipments led to an encouraging increase in revenues to  3.39 million during the first half of the financial year.
Comparatively, revenues in the second half were lower at  1.94 million due to a lack of major project shipments.  The difference in
revenues caused reported financial performance to vary significantly between the two halves, with losses of  120,000 in the first half
and  1,069,000 in the second half.
To reduce the risk of such volatility, management has focused on building a flow of smaller sales, the timing of which can be more
accurately forecast than major projects. As a result, order intake improved in the second half of the financial year and we expect this
will feed through into improving revenues in the future. These increases were particularly notable in Europe and Asia.
Gross margin had declined over several prior periods, partly due to major project wins, which are typically lower margin than smaller
sales. The overall gross margin for the year was 42.4% with an improvement in the second half.
Although overheads for the full year fell, a trend which has continued after the end of the period, overheads in the second half were
temporarily higher due to increased investment in skills, product development, expansion of the technical support team and use of
temporary staff. This, together with the lower revenues discussed above, led to the increased loss in the second half.
In April 2005, the Group announced that it would outsource its manufacturing during the second half leading to the redundancy of 19
staff. Exceptional costs of  70,000 were incurred in respect of this change, most of which were redundancy costs.  Manufacturing
contracts were signed with two UK-based contract manufacturers and the outsourcing went live on 1 July 2005. The reduction in
overheads and stocks will first be seen in the results for the six month period to 31 December 2005.
Products and Services
The huge installed base of analogue CCTV equipment is likely to sustain the analogue market for several years and the Group
continues to supply upgrades, extensions, repairs and support services to its extensive customer base. Contract wins during the period
included Delhi Metro, a previous analogue customer which COE is now helping migrate to digital technology, as well as to several
county councils in the UK and rail and transport systems in mainland Europe.
COE frequently sells through major systems integrators such as Siemens or Alcatel. Both of these relationships were extended with new
business in several countries and a preferred supplier agreement with Alcatel for analogue equipment.
The Group previously announced the addition of Network Video Recording (NVR) to its product range. NVR is a digital recording
system which allows higher quality and easier reproduction of images for use as police evidence than is possible with tape-based
systems. NVR and COE's codecs proved a popular combination with customers and the first integration and first joint win were
achieved during the period.
CCTV systems load data networks in ways which are not found in any other branch of IT and COE has extended the support provided
to its customers to include advice on planning and installation of the underlying data networks. To date, COE engineers have played
key roles in the specification and commissioning of several networks which use over 1,000 cameras. Page 5 COE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
COE has significantly increased its focus on services. For example, a three year support and maintenance contract was agreed with
COLT Telecom for the London Congestion Charge scheme and other support services were sold to customers in the UK and abroad.
Current Trading
As announced in the trading update of 8 December 2005, trading has continued to be tough and losses have continued to be incurred.
Despite the overhead reductions referred to above, the improvement in order intake experienced in the six months to 30 June 2005
has been maintained.  Further important advances in the move towards profitability have also been made, including the launch of
major new products, the sale of more services to customers and the outsourcing of manufacturing, which has had the benefit of
reducing stock levels.
The sales focus has been on ensuring a sufficient pipeline of smaller projects to reduce earnings volatility experienced when fulfilling
very large projects.  Larger projects, a particular COE strength in the past, may then be layered onto a stable business when the Group
is able to win them.
Further cost reductions are now being implemented which, once complete, would allow COE to start 2006 with a cost structure which
would allow it to be broadly breakeven if current revenues are maintained.
Financing
The ongoing losses have meant that bank borrowings have increased to  2.09 million as at 20 December 2005. The borrowings are
secured on COE's freehold property, as well as the Group's stocks and debtors.
The Directors are in dialogue with the Group's bankers and believe that the bankers will continue to be supportive. The Directors are
also in advanced discussions with a number of potential investors who may provide equity or similar funding to strengthen the Group's
balance sheet.  To enable the Directors to react quickly, the Board is proposing to shareholders a disapplication of pre-emption rights
at the 2006 AGM to the level of 100% of the existing share capital.
COE's operations depend both on continued bank support and on the sourcing of further equity or similar funding in the short to
medium term.  Accordingly the auditors have included a paragraph in their audit report regarding a fundamental uncertainty that
exists in relation to the going concern basis of preparation.
Capital Reorganisation
The Group has around 19,000 shareholders, the majority of which have been shareholders since the Group was called Scoot.com plc.
Around 17,000 of these shareholders have shares which are effectively worthless after taking into account the minimum cost of selling
their shares. The Group is therefore announcing today a Capital Reorganisation in order to reduce the administrative costs of
managing its shareholder base.  Further details are set out in a separate announcement being made today and a circular, incorporating
notice of an extraordinary general meeting in respect of the Capital Reorganisation, will be posted to shareholders together with the
annual report.
Conclusion and Outlook
The continuing climate of terrorism across the world is keeping a focus on video surveillance, particularly in the transport market
which is COE's main focus.
The Group has made important advances in its move towards profitability including the launch of major new products, the sale of more
services to its customers and the outsourcing of its manufacturing.  The improvement in order intake experienced in the six months to
30 June 2005 has been maintained against the backdrop of continued overhead reductions, and further cost reductions are now being
implemented which would allow COE to start 2006 in a broadly breakeven position if current revenues are maintained.
Despite the trading and cash flow difficulties which are being experienced, the Directors have confidence in the market which the
Group addresses and the potential for COE to return to profitability on a sustainable basis.
I would like to thank all colleagues and partners for their dedicated work which delivered improvements during a difficult year and
look forward to announcing further progress in the future.
Dick Eykel
Chairman
21 December 2005