 I am delighted to report to shareholders our final
results for the year ended 31 December 2005.
These are the first full set of results since Reversus
plc's acquisition of DTC Group Ltd, a healthcare
services business, at the end of April 2005.
ollowing the acquisition Reversus was renamed Company Health Group plc and our
financial year-end was changed to 31 December 2005. Consequently the results we are
announcing today contain a full eighteen months of costs, including those associated with
Reversus and the reversal process itself, but only eight months of trading as a healthcare
services provider.
We have made significant progress in the eight months to 31 December 2005 and the directors
are particularly pleased with the operating performance of our subsidiary companies. We have
an increasingly strong operational and financial platform upon which we can build and our 
intention is to combine organic growth with a proactive acquisition policy in order to take
advantage of the current dynamics in the healthcare services market in the UK and to produce
attractive returns for shareholders.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
The Group had total turnover of  2.7 million (year ended 30 June 2004 -  nil). Gross profit
was  1.3 million. Profit on ordinary activities before taxation was  54,997 (year ended 30 June
2004 - loss of  173,870). Retained profit was  30,748 (year ended 30 June 2004 - loss of
 173,870), which equates to a basic profit per share of 0.15 pence (year ended 30 June
2004 - loss per share of 0.25 pence). Note 2 contains a more detailed breakdown of the 
contribution of the three operating subsidiaries in terms of turnover and profit. 
Chairman's Statement
COMPANY HEALTH GROUP PLC
2
F Net Assets rose to  3.8 million compared to  0.6 million in June 2004. Cash at bank as at 
31 December was  723,740 (30 June 2004 -  604,137). Following approval by shareholders
in November 2005 the reduction of capital, cancellation of the share premium account and 
cancellation of the capital redemption reserve has been implemented.
I am also pleased to announce that the DTC Group's audited annual report shows earnings
before deduction of interest and taxation of  401,396, however as indicated above only part
of these earnings are included in the 2005 Company Health Group plc results. Pursuant therefore
to the earn out agreement relating to the acquisition of the DTC Group we are issuing
9,586,974 new ordinary shares priced at 7.5 pence per share in Company Health Group plc
to the vendors of DTC.
DIVIDEND
Given the current stage in the Company's development and the desire to grow the business both
organically and by acquisition the Board are not recommending a dividend. However the Board
will keep this under regular review, subject to the performance of the Company and profits 
available for distribution.
OPERATING REVIEW
Your Group operates in three distinct sectors in the healthcare market: occupational health,
ergonomic and physiotherapy services and medical evidence collection for the life assurance
industry. All these areas of business developed during the period with new contact wins, contract
extensions and repeat business. We also made our first acquisition in August 2005.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Company Health Ltd (CHL) our occupational health business is an established and 
well-recognised provider. Historically, occupational health has been largely restricted to health
and safety in the workplace and was generally provided by on-site medically trained personnel
and was most applicable to heavy industry. However, the market has increasingly shifted its
focus and there is now greater concern about wider employee health issues, including the
provision of preventative healthcare. This approach is now encouraged through occupational
health schemes which has the advantage of reducing absenteeism and improving morale
amongst the workforce.
The occupational health market is influenced not only by Government initiatives both legislative
and educative but also by company risk and claims management programmes driven by 
insurers requirements, higher liability insurance costs and the cost to industry of sickness absence
(estimated to be some  12.2 billion in 2004 - source CBI/AXA).
3
Chairman's Statement
continued
COMPANY HEALTH GROUP PLC
  Recent Government initiatives including the Securing Health Together  programme have been
designed to reduce sickness absence and illness associated with the workplace by creating
integrated vocational rehabilitation schemes. The recent Public Health White Paper Choosing
Health  reinforces the Governments commitment to rehabilitation and health in the workplace.
Recently there has been a clear trend by many corporations to outsource non-core business and
this is presenting new opportunities for CHL by increasing the size of the occupational health 
market. CHL now provides occupational health services to over 250 corporate and other clients.
The services offered include: sickness absence management, rehabilitation programmes, 
pre-employment screening, health surveillance/statutory health assessments, wellness screening,
health policy development, stress management, helpline services, employee assistance 
programmes and vaccination programmes.
PHYSIOTHERAPY, ERGONOMICS AND SPORTS INJURY
In August 2005, we completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Milligan &
Hill Ltd (M&H) for a maximum consideration of  1,050,000 (including a performance related
earn out of  700,000) to be satisfied by a mixture of cash and shares. The cash element is
being funded by a combination of the Company's existing cash resources and acquisition
finance provided by HSBC Bank plc.
M&H is located in the City of London and provides a range of services either from its clinic or
as in-house services. These services include physiotherapy; ergonomics; podiatry; and sports
massage. The proximity of M&H to the UK's financial centre has enabled it to develop its client
base among prominent blue-chip companies. As well as broadening the range of services we
offer the acquisition also expanded our geographical reach to central London, an area to which
we previously had little exposure.
COLLECTION OF MEDICAL INFORMATION FOR THE LIFE ASSURANCE MARKET
The third part of our business is providing medical examination services to the life assurance industry.
This is delivered through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Diagnostic Technologies Corporation Ltd
(DTCL). DTCL has grown significantly since it was first established in 1993 to provide a 
specialised body fluid testing service. Initially, the company focused its marketing effort on the
life and health insurance industry, which often requires an independent medical examination in
order to ascertain the risk of a particular applicant. In 1998, DTC acquired a business specialising
in the collection of medical evidence using independent GPs. Subsequently, due to increases in
fees requested by GPs, DTCL established its own paramedical examination service in mid-2004.
This service utilises nurses to provide a more cost-effective service and has grown significantly
over the last year.
Chairman's Statement
continued
COMPANY HEALTH GROUP PLC
4 Overall, DTCL now arranges medical examinations and pathology testing on applicants for life
insurance cover on behalf of some 50 major life assurance companies in the UK and Eire.
CaseTrack , our online medical examination management service, works by providing
passwords and access codes to any number of specified individuals to log on to the web and
instruct and monitor the status and progress of all outstanding cases. High security and speed of
delivery are key differentiators of this service and it is now regarded by many to be the market-
leading service for the industry.
During the reported period this was evidenced when DTCL consolidated its position and signed
new contracts with two large UK life assurance providers: Legal & General Assurance Society
Limited; and the life assurance division of one of the UK's leading high-street banks, supplying
them both with medical examinations, pathology testing services and access to CaseTrack .
Although there has been a significant increase in turnover and profit this year, the full benefit of
these and other significant contracts will be fully seen in 2006 and subsequent financial years.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Group sales continue to increase and I am confident that the current year will show a significant
improvement on the levels attained in 2005 with profits expanding in line with the growth in
revenues. Any acquisitions made during 2006 will of course further enhance this growth.
The Group is actively pursuing an acquisition strategy to achieve both an extension of geographic
coverage in the occupational health market as well as broadening skills in areas such as
rehabilitation and disability assessment and as a result strengthening the vertical integration 
of its services.
I look forward to the future with confidence and I would like to take this opportunity to thank
existing shareholders for their support, welcome new shareholders and to thank all our employees
for their hard work and dedication during the reported period.
RALPHGOUGH
Chairman
21 March 2006
5
Chairman's Statement
continued
COMPANY HEALTH GROUP PLC
 