 2
Chairman's Statement 
Business 
Summary 
We design, build and supply high-end embedded computer products for the defence, telecommunication, 
aerospace, transportation, scientific and industrial markets.  These high performance products are based on Intel
 
long life cycle components, and cover a range of central processing unit (CPU ) boards and computer systems, 
which include single and dual processor boards, many using dual-core processors and more recently, quad-core 
processors. Designed for the 3U and 6U CompactPCI
 
, VME, AMC (Advanced Mezzanine Card) and Multibus II 
open architecture standards, a common feature of our products is the low level of electrical power required for 
their high performance capabilities. 
Our products deliver very high levels of reliability with substantial processing power, making them ideal for use in 
projects ranging from high-performance military communications systems to commercial industrial control units. 
Furthermore we develop rugged versions of many of our products for use in harsh and wide temperature 
environments, making them very appealing for a variety of demanding applications. These long life-cycle boards 
are batch produced to highly detailed specifications, and the vast majority of these are made in-house. 
In addition to hardware design capability, our engineering teams undertake a significant amount of software and 
firmware development to provide interoperability between products, allowing customers to transition smoothly 
when new updates or designs are available. In this way we continue to see strong customer loyalty and long term 
relationships, as well as new sales following product launches featuring performance upgrades. We also generate 
software for both on-board and production test purposes, while also providing support for leading embedded and 
real-time operating systems.
Financial 
Summary 
We are pleased to report a profit before tax for 2008 of  2,951,603 (2007:  2,432,973), an increase of 21% over 
the previous year.  Earnings per share for the period increased to 3.26p (2007: 2.62p). In the second half of the 
year, profit before tax was  1,738,069 an increase of 43% over the first half of 2008 (H1 2008:  1,213,534). This 
result was achieved on sales of  12,619,631, an increase of 19% compared with 2007 (2007:  10,565,278). 
Sales in the second half of 2008 also improved, with turnover of  7,138,830 compared with  5,480,801 in the first 
half.
Gross margins for the year strengthened again to 53.0% up from 49.4% last year, resulting partly from a strong 
US dollar and partly from increased sales of our high margin Multibus II products during the period. We do not, 
however, expect a continuation of this high level of Multibus II sales in the future as this technology has been 
superseded by newer and superior bus architectures, which we continue to focus on. 
We ended the year with cash and cash equivalents of  4.99m (2007:  4.80m) and no borrowings. It is 
encouraging that this increased cash balance was during a period of continuing increases in product development 
expenditure to  2,031,970 up from  1,522,073 in 2007. 
We continue to have a good diversity of customers, encompassing large blue chip companies across multiple 
sectors, with the stable defence market being the biggest contributor to our turnover.
Review of 
Operations 
During 2008 the Company continued to market its products primarily to the defence and telecommunication 
industries, where innovative products continue to have a high level of demand.  In addition to the launch of new 
processor boards, we continued to introduce boards which use multi-channel switches operating at gigabit data 
transfer rates that can be used in high-speed switched fabric VME and CompactPCI
 
 systems. With slight 
variations in operating capacities and format, these products address many different customer needs. 
In 2008 we released 9 new products, including more boards designed according to the 3U CompactPCI
 
standard, which is experiencing increased demand. 3U CompactPCI
 
 products are smaller than our traditional 6U 
CompactPCI
 
 products and are becoming particularly attractive to defence applications. This is due to our ability 
to put a large amount of functionality on a very small board which can be ruggedised and specified for use in 
harsh environments. Included among the 3U boards released recently is one using the latest Intel
 
 very low 
power Atom  processor. This type of board in commercial form is widely used in applications within industrial 
control. In addition, we continued to extend our family of single slot VME single board computers as well as 
introducing more high performance 6U CompactPCI
 
 boards. 
Post the financial year end, in April 2009 we released our most sophisticated product to date, which is based on 
the latest Intel quad-core processor technology. This quad-core product with its substantial processing capability 
is well suited for use within the telecommunications, defence and homeland security market sectors. 
All of the products released in 2008 enable the Company to offer boards which provide enhanced processing 
capabilities without a significant increase in power consumption - an important attribute for the end users. Low 
power consumption also leads to higher reliability, which is a characteristic demanded by most users of 
embedded computer products. The boards offer high performance solutions that continue to attract new 
customers while encouraging upgrades from current clients keen to take advantage of the improved 
functionalities.  3
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
Future 
Plans 
Although we maintain an active policy of exploring value enhancing acquisition opportunities as they arise, this is 
not our top priority at the moment. Our current emphasis is on internal organic growth where we continue to see 
many opportunities to grow the business into new market areas without taking unacceptable risk. At the same 
time we will continue to pursue new sales in our existing markets. 
We strongly believe that the key to our future success is continuing to expand our range of products, with a 
particular focus on the CompactPCI
 
 bus architecture, including the newer smaller sized 3U version, together with 
the VME and AMC architectures. Our business aim will be to design more products for complex, high technology, 
low to medium volume and high margin applications, along with producing versions targeted for use in harsh 
environments, including military applications. 
Even though, like most other businesses, maintaining and growing sales in a contracting world economy is a 
challenge, an even bigger challenge for us is to expand our engineering resources to keep up with sales demand. 
Our priority continues to be the swift expansion of our engineering capability both here and abroad. Thus we 
continue with our policy of recruiting design engineers in the UK and also in India where we have now built a 
significant design capability. Our operation in Bangalore, India gives us direct access to a large pool of talent, 
which will supplement our engineering operations in the UK. The design facility in Bangalore is now fully 
operational (16 employees at the end of 2008) and has already produced several key designs. 
The Company has used its authority in 2008 to buy back its own shares and the Directors will continue to do this 
when they consider it appropriate. 
Dividend The Board will recommend a final dividend of 0.85 pence per share (2007: 0.80 pence) which when added to the 
interim dividend of 0.45 pence per share will make a total of 1.30 pence per share for the year (2007: 1.20 pence). 
The total cost of this final dividend will amount to  608,422. The ex-dividend date for the final dividend is 27 May 
2009, the record date is 29 May 2009 and the payment date is 15 June 2009.
Outlook Trading in the first quarter of 2009 has proceeded in line with our expectations. Clearly the declining world 
economic activity is having an effect on companies in the telecommunications and industrial sectors, but we are 
still experiencing reasonable order intake from these sectors. 
In the defence field, activity has never been higher for us. Moreover, US Government plans to cut back on some 
defence projects are unlikely to impact us as the projects which appear to be under most threat, such as the F-22 
fighter, are not those where we have a major interest. Very strong interest continues in our products for projects 
for electronic, aerial and battlefield surveillance. Sales growth occurring this year is likely to be more modest than 
in 2008, but at this stage we expect our financial performance to be satisfactory. Our existing order book and 
immediate sales prospects give us confidence for the remainder of this year, and, so far as the future beyond that 
is concerned, we believe there is an abundance of opportunity, particularly in the defence market in the USA. 
Business growth is determined by our ability to convert this abundance of opportunity into revenue, which in turn 
depends upon our ability to grow our engineering team quickly enough to satisfy customer demand. Our facility in 
Bangalore, India has successfully addressed this issue. Investment in engineering development was increased by 
34% in 2008 over 2007, and we are investing even more in 2009. We see this as a very good time to invest in our 
core business in order to ensure a substantial increase in the product range we will be offering when economic 
conditions improve. 
We have announced some important new product launches during the past 12 months and expect that the 
continuing release of even more new products based on the latest multi-core Intel
 
 processors should ensure that 
we are in an excellent position to take advantage of sales opportunities as they arise.
Corporate 
Governance 
As an AIM listed company Concurrent Technologies Plc is not obliged to comply with the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance. We do however acknowledge the overall importance of the guidelines and apply as many 
of the principles therein as are appropriate to a company of our size and nature. 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting this year will be held on 8 June 2009. 
Michael Collins 
Chairman 
24 April 2009 
All companies and product names are trademarks of their respective organisations. 