    
2 
Chairman's Statement 
 I am pleased to report another profitable year despite difficult global market conditions. Sales in the second half 
of 2012 improved on the first half and we have been able to grow sales in the telecommunications and 
transport markets. Our investment in new product development has allowed us to provide existing customers 
with an excellent upgrade path and to create new opportunities in some interesting areas including scientific 
applications. 
We have maintained our investment in R&D and have again increased our dividend while maintaining a strong 
balance sheet. We remain positive about sales into our core markets and look forward to realising new 
opportunities and long-term revenue growth. 
Financial 
Summary  
The Group EBITDA for 2012 was  3,479,094 (2011:  3,860,831). The reduction was due to the lower level of 
sales caused by the rescheduling of some orders and extended timescales of customer projects. The Group 
achieved a profit before tax for 2012 of  2,001,404 (2011:  2,710,332), which includes the increased 
amortisation of capitalised R&D. Earnings per share for the year were 2.75 pence (2011: 3.63 pence). Gross 
turnover for the year was  12,794,380 (2011:  13,807,669). The gross margin for the year was 51.7% 
compared with 52.1% for 2011.  
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash of  2.32m (2011:  3.59m) plus short to medium term cash 
deposits of  2m (2011:  2m) at the year end, with no borrowings. The reduction in the cash balance at the end 
of the year was due to increased dividend payments, and expenditure on components required for a large 
order shipped in the final month of the year. 
Business 
Summary 
The Group is a leading specialist in the design, manufacture and supply of innovative high-end embedded 
computer products aimed at a wide base of customer types in the telecommunication, defence, aerospace, 
transportation, scientific and industrial markets. Our products have a long lifecycle which typically provides the 
Group with high quality sales over many years. 
The Group's high performance products are based on Intel
 
 long lifecycle components, and cover a range of 
central processing unit (CPU ) boards and complementary products compatible with the CompactPCI
 
, 
VPX , VME, AMC and XMC/PMC open architecture standards. Many of the CPUs feature the latest 
processor platforms from Intel
 
 such as the 3rd generation Intel
 
 Core  processors, six-core Intel
 
 Xeon
 
 
processors and the low power Intel
 
 Atom  processors. A common feature of our newer products is the low 
level of electrical power required for their very high performance capabilities. 
Our products deliver extremely high levels of reliability with substantial processing power, making them ideal 
for use in projects ranging from high-performance military communications systems to commercial industrial 
control units. In addition to our commercial range of boards, we develop ruggedized versions of many products 
in our range to operate at temperatures ranging from -40
o
C to +85
o
C, for use in harsh and wide temperature 
environments, making them very appealing for a variety of demanding applications. Our products also support 
many of today's leading operating systems including Windows
 
, Linux
 
, Solaris , QNX
 
, VxWorks
 
, LynxOS
 
 
and more recently INTEGRITY
 
. 
In addition to hardware design capability, our engineering teams undertake a significant amount of software 
and firmware development to provide interoperability between products, allowing customers to transition 
smoothly when new updates or designs are available. In this way we continue to see strong customer loyalty 
and long term relationships, as well as new sales following product launches featuring performance upgrades. 
We also generate software for both on-board and production test purposes. 
Review of 
Operations 
During the year we have launched 11 new high performance embedded computers which feature the latest 3rd 
generation Intel
 
 Core  i7 processors that are particularly suited for use within the defence, 
telecommunications and homeland security markets where fast data processing and reliability are critical.  
Several of these new boards use the AMC architecture supporting MicroTCA
 
 and AdvancedTCA
 
 applications 
in telecommunications markets, and extend the architecture to processing intensive applications related to 
physics research. Demonstrated at recent technology events, our latest AMC boards operate with support for 
our Fabric Interconnect Networking Software (FIN-S) across the Serial RapidIO
 
 networked backplane. These 
boards are particularly well suited for MicroTCA
 
 based telecommunications and other applications where a 
large number of computing nodes are required to intercommunicate at high data rates. We have had a 
significant increase in sales of products to customers using AMC architecture across several markets, 
particularly scientific and telecoms, albeit from a relatively low but growing share of total sales. We also 
launched 2 new systems designed to support fast track development of MicroTCA
 
 and VPX  applications. 
  
    
3 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
Review of 
Operations 
(continued) 
Continuing our focus on providing integrated software support, we also announced the release of our Board 
Level Security Package designed to help customers to deliver secure solutions into applications where 
protecting critical technologies and data is mandatory, using a combination of deeply embedded proprietary 
hardware, firmware and software countermeasures to prevent or frustrate attempts to gain access to sensitive 
data on a secure system. Our Board Level Security Package provides a set of customer configurable security 
options that can be tailored to provide a unique security solution for each specific application and a means to 
enhance the security of customers' equipment, thus preventing access to their highly sensitive data and 
technology.  
 We continue to have a close relationship with Intel and we are committed to long term support of our 
customers by being an early adopter of the latest products from the world leader in silicon innovation and 
computer processing technology. Our products give increasingly higher performance, better reliability and 
lower power consumption, providing our customers with a long term upgrade path and maintaining our 
competitiveness within our end markets. 
The Group's design and engineering team is divided between the UK and India, but all manufacturing and 
testing takes place in our factory in Colchester, UK. Our sales, marketing and customer support teams operate 
from the UK and overseas offices including the USA and China. The proportion of our products being exported 
was 76% (2011: 77%). 
The Group's customer base continues to be well diversified with large, high quality, international businesses in 
multiple sectors and in many countries.  
Future Plans 
 
While the current economic climate is uncertain, our core business is relatively buoyant and we see several 
opportunities to continue expanding our range of products and to introduce highly innovative technology to 
significant customers in defence and telecommunications where high-reliability and fast, high volume 
processing is required. While sales for defence applications have reduced slightly, we have seen promising 
growth in sales for telecommunications and transport applications. 
We are a key supplier of Intel
 
 based technology to many major international companies and our products are 
found in a wide range of ever more sophisticated high-reliability computer systems. We will continue our 
investment in R&D to ensure a constant expansion of our range of products, with a particular focus on the 
VPX , VME, AMC and CompactPCI
 
 bus architectures. Work has already begun on the next generation of 
Intel
 
 Core  i7 processors and we will maintain our strategy of designing more innovative products for 
complex, high technology, low to medium volume and high margin applications. We are further enhancing the 
capabilities of these products with new and complementary software packages to provide high-speed data 
transfer, ease of integration and security. 
The Company will continue to use its authority to buy back its own shares when the Directors consider it 
appropriate. 
Dividend The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 1.05 pence per share (2011: 1.00 pence second interim 
dividend) which when added to the first interim dividend of 0.65 pence per share will make a total of 1.70 pence 
per share for the year (2011: 1.60 pence). This will be an increase of 6.25% over dividends paid in 2012. The 
total cost of this second interim dividend will amount to  750,125. The Directors do not intend to recommend a 
final dividend. 
Outlook 
 
Our core business remains strong and while the global economic conditions are difficult to predict and the 
effects on our markets of fiscal management events such as budget sequestration in the USA are unknown, we 
remain positive. We also believe that our wide product range and the investment that we have made and 
continue to make in a diversity of new products puts us in an excellent position to take advantage of the 
significant opportunities appearing in various markets. 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
As an AIM listed company Concurrent Technologies Plc is not obliged to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We do however acknowledge the overall importance of the guidelines and apply as many 
of the principles therein as are appropriate to a company of our size and nature. 
Annual General 
Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting this year will be held on 28 May 2013. 
  
 
Michael Collins 
Chairman 
 
08 April 2013 
 
All companies and product names are trademarks of their respective organisations. 