 Chairman's Statement
6 Consort Medical plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
This past year has been a successful one
for Consort Medical despite being one
of turmoil in the pharmaceutical sector.
It is natural that our shareholders and
stakeholders want to know how we are
facing the challenges of the fast-changing
healthcare environment and how we
plan to grow Consort Medical's business
to produce profitable results, return
value to shareholders and provide safe
and effective products for all the patients
with whom we come into contact.
I am happy to report that Consort
Medical has delivered on all fronts
despite facing some interesting
challenges in 2007 and 2008. 
We gained shareholder approval to
change our name to Consort Medical last
October. This change reflects the Group's
strategy to focus on medical devices.
In December the Board was pleased
to appoint Jon Glenn as our Chief
Executive following the resignation of
Mark Throdahl. Jon did a very good job
as Finance Director and has stepped
seamlessly into his new role. 
In October we announced a
restructuring of the business and the
closure of the Milton Keynes plant
following Pfizer's withdrawal from the
promotion and marketing of Exubera
 
.
A termination payment from our customer
Nektar Therapeutics of  11 million was
received in February and this has covered
our margin for the remainder of the
financial year for Exubera
 
devices
together with a significant proportion of
the costs of the UK restructuring. The last
programme is scheduled to exit Milton
Keynes at the end of June. In the UK the
Bespak division will then operate from
our facility at King's Lynn. 
Despite this restructuring and a very
preliminary takeover approach which
came to nothing, the Group is in a strong
position to take advantage of the growth
in both its Bespak and King Systems
divisions. This year we have achieved
record sales of HFA valves for the US
albuterol market and benefited from
strong sales of Diskus  for Advair which
is used to treat asthma and Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
These results, together with the Food 
& Drug Administration's (FDA's) recent
guidance requiring all new aerosol 
drug dispensers to have dose counters,
positions the Group well for the future.
Performance
In the year to 3 May 2008, Group
revenues of  126.5 million were
unchanged in total from 2007. Sales of
products and services (excluding tooling
and equipment that are customer
funded) declined by 3% to  120.4
million (2007:  123.7 million), mostly
reflecting the lower sales of the
Exubera
 
device and Pfizer's decision 
to exit marketing Exubera
 
in October.
Sales of other devices within the Bespak
division increased in the year, driven by
increased volumes of HFA valves. The
King Systems anaesthesia division
increased revenues by 3% to  31.9
million (2007:  31.0 million), with the
increase at constant exchange rates
being 8%.
The operating profit before special
items in the Bespak inhaled drug delivery
division fell by 2% to  14.2 million
(2007:  14.6 million) principally due to
the reduced Exubera
 
device sales.
Operating profit before special items in
the King Systems anaesthesia division
declined by 4% to  4.8 million (2007:
 4.9 million). On a constant exchange
rate basis, operating profit at King
increased by 1% after continuing
investments in new sales and marketing
and research and development
initiatives. 
Net operating margin before special
items was maintained at 15.8%.
Profit before tax and special items
increased by 1% to  17.6 million (2007:
 17.4 million). Whilst operating profit
before special items declined by 3% to
 19.0 million (2007:  19.5 million), this
was offset by lower net finance costs
which fell from  1.8 million in 2007 to
 1.0 million this year. 
I am happy to report that Consort Medical has
delivered on all fronts despite facing some interesting
challenges in 2007 and 2008.  Consort Medical plc 7
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Accurate
The BK640 Mechanical Dose Counter accurately indicates the
countdown from a maximum number of doses so that patients
know precisely how many doses remain in the inhaler, hence
reducing the risk of the patient running out.
  Bespak is the world's leading producer of inhaler
valves. The valve is the most technically complex element
in a metered dose inhaler (MDI), and it is critical to
delivering consistent doses to patients.
Bespak produces 200 million
valves every year. Chairman's Statement continued
8 Consort Medical plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Profit before tax from continuing
operations declined by 53% to  7.3 million
(2007:  15.6 million) due to a number of
special items
1
following the termination
of the Exubera
 
device manufacturing
contract. 
The Group tax rate on profit before
special items was 27.9% (2007: 28.2%).
The tax rate on special items was 31.1%
(2007: 39.6%). This reflects the higher
rate of tax on the amortisation charge in
the US business, and the change in the
basis of calculating deferred tax on the
property at Milton Keynes due to the
plant closure.
Earnings per share increased 1% to
44.8p (2007: 44.3p), as adjusted for special
items and the results of discontinued
operations. Basic earnings per share were
9.3p (2007: 34.8p).
The Board is recommending a
maintained final dividend of 12.1p per
share such that the total dividend for
the year amounts to 19.1p (2007: 19.1p).
The final dividend will be paid on
24 October 2008 to those shareholders
on the register on 26 September 2008.
The maintained dividend reflects both
the strength of the Group's balance
sheet and its confidence in its future
prospects. Dividend cover, based on
earnings before special items, was 2.4
times (2007: 2.3 times).
The Group's businesses are strongly
cash generative. Cash generated from
continuing operations was  25.3 million
(2007:  32.7 million). Net debt at 3 May
2008 was  13.7 million (2007:  18.2
million).
Directors
In December 2007 Mark Throdahl
stepped down from the Board as Chief
Executive and was replaced by Jonathan
Glenn. On behalf of the Board and
shareholders I would like to thank Mark
for his contribution to the Company
over the past five years. As a result of
Jon taking the CEO role we were left
without a finance director. Paul Boughton
our Corporate Development Director
ably stepped into the role as Acting
Finance Director and the Board would
like to thank him for his hard work in
what has been a challenging few months.
At the time of announcement of the
preliminary results we were pleased to
announce the appointment of a new
Finance Director Toby Woolrych who will
join the Company in the autumn. Toby
qualified with Arthur Andersen and
most recently has been Chief Operating
Officer at ACTA SpA, an AIM listed
Italian catalyst business where he was
responsible for strategy, investor
relations, and strategic finance. 
People
We are constantly looking at ways to
operate more effectively and unfortunately
as a result of the restructuring we have
lost 165 people.I would like to thank all
our employees in both the UK and the
US for their hard work in ensuring that
Consort Medical continues to deliver
quality products to all our customers and
to provide value to our shareholders.
Outlook
As expected, progress in 2007/08 has been
broadly flat despite the loss of the Exubera
contract. Both the Bespak and King
Systems divisions are performing to plan
and we continue to evaluate acquisition
opportunities. Looking forward into next
year we expect to see modest growth as
the HFA valves completely replace the CFC
valves at the end of 2008, and our metered
dose inhaler programmes start to enter
clinical trials. 
With our strengthened management
team, the potential for the development
of new products, our marketing and
distribution network and our opportunity
to expand geographically we are
confident of the Group's future. 
John Robinson
Chairman
23 June 2008
With our strengthened management team, our
potential for developing new products, our marketing
and distribution network and the opportunity to
expand into new countries, we are confident of the
Group's future. 
1 Special items
The special items include impairment charges for the Milton Keynes property and equipment, employee
severance costs, other plant closure costs and amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets, and amount to
 9.4 million (2007:  1.8 million). Consort Medical plc 9
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Consistent
Throughout the relationship with GSK, Bespak has demonstrably
improved the process, tooling and equipment necessary 
to deliver substantially higher volumes, ensuring that the
exacting quality levels have been realised and maintained.
  Bespak has produced over 400 million Diskus devices
since it came on the market over thirteen years ago. It has
proved to be the most successful dry powder inhaler all over
the world. Our rigorous processes ensure that each one is
manufactured to the highest standards.
Cleanroom manufacturing at
Bespak King's Lynn.
Consort Medical plc 9
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Consort Medical plc 9
Annual Report & Accounts 2008