 African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2010 02
The predicted cash costs of around US$3.37/lb 
place Dutwa around the median of the global 
nickel production curve.
Dear shareholder,
I am very pleased to report that 2010 was the year when the 
investment community began to recognise the value of our 
Company, as I predicted in my Statement a year ago. The 
reasons for this included de-risking of our world class Dutwa 
nickel project in Tanzania, firmer commodity prices and signing 
up our new joint broker, Ocean Equities Limited. Ocean Equities 
has introduced some major institutional investors to our share 
register, whom I am pleased to welcome to African Eagle. 
We are now well into the pre-feasibility study of the Dutwa 
nickel project, which we expect to complete by the end of Q3 
this year before moving into a bankable feasibility study.
Dutwa economics
A key component of the Dutwa feasibility study will be the 
financial model of the project, which has been built for us by 
independent consultant Simulus Limited, of Perth, Western 
Australia using inputs from Snowden Mining Industry 
Consultants and AMEC Minproc. The new model has allowed 
us to update the mid-2009 scoping study economics. It has 
given us the ability to test the economic impacts of different 
strategies, such as heap versus tank leaching, different rates of 
throughput, choices of financing structure and options for the 
source and transport of reagents. In March 2011, Snowden 
delivered a Whittle pit optimisation report which further 
confirmed the economic viability of the project. 
The table below shows the results of the latest financial model 
for both tank and heap leaching at a yearly throughput of 3Mt 
of ore, for nickel prices of US$8 and US$10 per pound. The 
nickel price as I write is over US$11.50/lb and I will leave you to 
estimate what value that could generate.
3Mtpa throughput Heap Leach Tank Leach
Nickel price US$/lb $10 $8 $10 $8
NPV10 post-tax US$M 705 260 870 385
IRR post-tax % 26 17 29 20
Cash costs US$/lb 3.56 3.56 3.37 3.37
Increasing the throughput to 5Mtpa would improve the  
project returns, but logistical challenges will make 3Mtpa a 
more realistic production target until proposed infrastructure 
developments within Tanzania allow the operation to be  
scaled up.
The predicted cash costs of around US$3.37/lb place Dutwa 
around the median of the global nickel production curve. The 
cash cost includes US$1.60/lb leaching reagent costs and 
US$1.00 for transporting the reagents and end product. We are 
working hard to find ways to minimise these component costs.
The inputs to the financial model will be improved as the 
feasibility study advances. At this stage, we should regard the 
results at the level of advanced scoping study, but confidence 
will increase as more data becomes available. The next big 
milestone will be completion of the bulk metallurgical tests now 
being undertaken by three specialist laboratories in Perth, 
Western Australia to determine which process route will provide 
the optimum financial return.
We are pleased that our partner on the Dutwa project, SAFINA 
of the Czech Republic, has agreed to finance its share of the 
pre-feasibility and bankable feasibility studies and estimate that 
on completion of the bankable feasibility study, African Eagle 
will hold between 76% and 80% and SAFINA will hold 
between 24% and 20%, respectively, of the equity in the  
Dutwa project. 
 
Zanzui and other regional targets
The Zanzui complex which lies 60km southwest of Dutwa, is a 
roughly circular layered mafic-ultramafic intrusive with a 
diameter of around 12km that covers an area of more than 
140km
2
. Drill results from 2009 and 2010 allowed our 
geologists to calculate an exploration target of at least 20Mt at 
0.91% nickel equivalent in laterite ore, though this is not yet 
defined to JORC resource standard. Numerical interpretation of 
our VTEM geophysical survey suggests that there are other thick 
laterite targets yet to be tested and bedrock conductors which 
may prove to be nickel sulphides. Anomalous gold and platinum 
samples have also been found.
Chairman' s Statement African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2010 03
We have identified other regional targets, including one 20km 
to the east of our Dutwa project, where a nickel in soil anomaly 
occurs over an area with no rock outcrop. This anomaly will be 
drill tested during Q4 2011.
Legacy projects
African Eagle is divesting its interests in its non-core assets in 
order to focus on the Dutwa project and make the transition 
from an explorer to a nickel producer. A key objective in this 
process is to maximise the value of these assets.
Aside from its nickel projects, African Eagle's Board believes 
that the Company's most valuable asset is its copper portfolio in 
Zambia. Progress to divest this portfolio has been slower than 
planned, because the Board has not been prepared to split this 
asset and give it away cheaply. As the copper price continues to 
reach record levels, I believe that we have been fully justified in 
holding on for the best value. 
Our copper division represents a fully integrated copper 
exploration and development company in one of the great 
copper producing regions of the world, and the Board believes 
that the portfolio has greatest value if maintained as one entity. 
Therefore, the Board has appointed Chris Davies, our 
Operations Director, as CEO designate and mandated him to 
raise private equity and implement an accelerated work 
programme ahead of listing shares in a new copper company 
later this year. We are pleased that Michael Mundashi, a senior 
Zambian attorney, has agreed to join the Board of the new 
company, especially as we are considering a dual listing on the 
Lusaka Stock Exchange. 
The improved copper price has also allowed us, with our joint 
venture partner Ratel Group Limited, to begin to develop the 
Mkushi Copper Mine. A staged development of the project is 
planned, with an initial start-up operation using heap leaching 
or alternative processing methods. Ratel is updating the 2008 
feasibility study with the aim of building up to a larger scale 
operation in the latter part of 2012. The funding of our interest 
in Mkushi will be through equity directly into the copper division 
so will not deflect resources away from Dutwa.
In November, African Eagle vended its uranium projects in 
Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia, subject to due diligence, 
for shares and cash into Jacana Resources Limited, a private 
Australian group. Jacana expects to list its shares in Australia 
later this year, at which time we can expect to benefit from 
participation in a focused uranium explorer.
In April 2010, the Company agreed terms with ASX-listed Peak 
Resources Limited to dispose of the Igurubi gold project in 
Tanzania for cash and shares. Peak is currently awaiting receipt 
of the licence from the Tanzanian authorities, a pre-condition of 
the agreement, before issuing shares to African Eagle. The delay 
in the process is not uncommon and we expect the licence to 
be issued shortly.
Following Macquarie Harbour Mining Limited's decision  
to relinquish its joint venture on Miyabi, the Company has 
signed a farm-in agreement with BrightStar Resources Limited,  
a company listed on the ASX (Ticker: BUT).
Corporate
In September 2010, with our shares at 3.75p, we raised  
 3.3 million before expenses through a placing with institutions 
and private client brokers. In January 2011, we took advantage 
of the strong demand for our shares and the headroom that 
you authorised at our last Annual General Meeting, to place a 
further 23.86 million shares at 15.5p for a gross  3.7 million. 
These extra funds have given us the ability to carry out further 
drilling and detailed metallurgical testwork at Dutwa while 
maintaining the momentum of the pre-feasibility study. 
To enhance our investor relations efforts, we signed up Ocean 
Equities Limited as joint broker in September 2010 and, in 
March 2011, appointed Canaccord Genuity Limited as our new 
nominated adviser and joint broker. African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2010 04
The year ahead
We have much to look forward to in the year ahead, with 
improvements and refinement to the Dutwa nickel project, 
regional exploration, the IPO of our copper division and news 
from other non-core assets. We recognise that the interest that 
investors have shown in us over the past few months is only the 
start and we believe that the Company remains undervalued 
compared to many of its peers. Our market capitalisation today 
is still only a fraction of the NPV of Dutwa plus the value of our 
other assets. Together with Ocean Equities Limited and 
Canaccord Genuity Limited, the Board, management and 
employees of African Eagle will continue to strive to maximise 
shareholder value and reduce that valuation gap.
Chairman' s Statement
I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and 
commitment during the year. I would also like to commend our 
Managing Director, Mark Parker who has been very pragmatic 
and unselfish in recognising that his particular skills are in 
exploration and not best suited to bringing Dutwa into 
production. Consequently, the Board has begun the search for a 
new CEO. Mark, who founded the Company in 1996, remains a 
committed shareholder. He will stay on the Board as a director 
but will focus his efforts on business development and 
identifying other regional nickel targets. 
I am sure that we can continue to add value in 2011 and close 
the wide gap between our market capitalisation and the 
underlying value of our assets.
Euan Worthington 
Chairman
20 April 2011 African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2010 05