 Corac Group plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 
 
 
Executive Chairman's Report 
 
 
Introduction 
This has been a year of business and commercial 
transformation for the Company through the investment 
in the new generation of technologies that strengthen the 
portfolio of applications and the move into the new 
Technology Centre in Slough.  Corac is now well 
positioned with its technology, people, facilities and 
partners and focused on the market needs that can 
provide a return for the Company, its partners and future 
customers. 
 
Following the year end, we completed a major transaction, 
the acquisition of Wellman Hunt Graham and Wellman 
Defence; this has transformed Corac into a technology-led 
engineering group serving major global industries with 
established commercial relationships and a track record of 
revenue and profit contribution.  
 
Results   
The financial results for the year as expected show a loss 
reflecting Corac's status as a technology research and 
development company.  The loss before tax was  5.67m 
(2010: loss before tax of  4.77m), reflecting a planned 
increase in development and investment spending and 
some revenues being deferred to 2012. Revenue in the 
period was  0.32m (2010:  0.66m) representing work 
undertaken on the North American DGC project and 
feasibility study with OMV. 
 
Cash at year end was  15.33m compared to  21.76m at 
the end of 2010. Operating cash outflow was  5.11m 
(2010:  3.06m). The reduction in cash reflects the losses 
incurred during the year. 
 
Business Review 2011 
Technology programmes (IGC and DGC)  
The last 12 months have seen advances in Corac's 
technology which have led to the development and 
implementation of the second generation electronics for 
the final assembly for the North American DGC. 
 
In addition the progress made in commercialising our 
technology has led to the significant partnership with 
Saudi Aramco for developing the IGC. This programme will 
assist Saudi Aramco in managing network gas flows which 
we see as having the potential of opening up new markets 
and appealing to wider group of commercial partners. 
 
Our current programmes are also benefitting from the 
facilities at Corac's new Technology Centre in Slough. This 
allows us to demonstrate our technical and commercial 
readiness to secure future development partners as well as 
our capability to deliver multiple projects. 
 
The build of the DGC for the ENI SpA (ENI ) project has 
benefitted from the enhanced North American system. 
Subsequent to year end both projects are now progressing 
towards final assembly stages, with testing and analysis at 
a module and full systems level prior to releasing to our 
partners for field trials.  
 
We now have three substantial development and build 
projects across the IGC and DGC development 
programmes with major oil and gas partners on three 
continents.  
 
We continue to work alongside major industrial 
engineering companies who are interested in adopting our 
turbocompressor technologies in a number of applications 
in a range of global markets.   
 
To support this we have strengthened our focus on IPR 
protection with new patents and design registrations.  
 
Our advances in technologies and IP portfolio have helped 
us to identify new potential partners, for example in water 
treatment, steam regeneration, renewable energy and in 
the oil industry.  Our continuing relationship with Baker 
Hughes has also helped identify and introduce new 
potential partners to our technologies.  
 
New Technology Centre 
The opening of the new Technology Centre in Slough in 
January 2011 marks the transformation of Corac from a 
University R&D spin off to a commercial technology 
development business and is in line with the Board's 
strategic commitment to sustainable growth outlined in 
December 2010 as part of the successful fund raising. 
 
The new Technology Centre is a major step for Corac, as it 
improves the overall quality and capacity of the 
Company's facilities and enhances the working 
environment for both our employees and partners. We 
believe it will be a major catalyst for the development and 
future success of Corac and look forward to the facility 
supporting the next phase of Corac's growth.  
 
We were delighted that the move to our new home was 
completed on time and within budget. The significantly 
increased floor area of 28,000 sq.ft at a much lower rental 
rate means that Corac now operates from more than three 
and a half times the space at a lower annual cost. In 
addition, the Technology Centre has lower service charges 
and the lease was negotiated with a significant rent free 
period.  
 
Several leading global organisations in the energy and 
industrial sectors with whom Corac are in on-going 
discussions relating to future projects have also visited to 
verify the technology readiness and capabilities and have 
provided very positive feedback on the Centre's 
technology, facilities and environment.  We anticipate that 
the Technology Centre will help provide further confidence 
for new partners to join Corac in support of future 
development projects as well as attract and retain the 
skilled engineers our technology requires. 
 
Transformational acquisition (post year end)  
On 5 April 2012 we completed the acquisition of Wellman 
Hunt Graham and Wellman Defence for an aggregate 
consideration of  10.75m. The acquisition was funded by 
our own cash and a share placing which raised 
Page 3 Corac Group plc Report and Financial Statements 2011  
 
 
Executive Chairman's Report 
 
 
approximately  6.35m. The price paid represented an 
attractive 3.6 times EBITDA multiple.  
 
Wellman Defence is a leading global supplier of submarine 
air purification equipment and clean air ventilation, with 
proprietary technology and a pipeline of innovations. 
 
Wellman Hunt Graham is a UK based manufacturer and 
supplier of shell and tube heat exchangers, supplying a 
number of industries including downstream oil and gas, 
chemical, energy and food. 
 
The acquisition brings the following strong strategic and 
financial benefits for the Company: 
 
 Diversifies technology risk and strengthens Corac's IP 
portfolio - Corac's existing business is in pre-
commercial stage and is focused on its core 
compressor technology.  The acquired businesses 
have proven, proprietary technologies in commercial 
stage which diversify Corac's exposure to its core 
technology.  
 Introduces sustainable revenues and contribution, 
reducing Corac's cash burn - Corac's existing 
business is in pre-commercial stage. The acquired 
businesses are well established profitable businesses. 
Their anticipated financial contribution is expected to 
partially offset Corac's current cash burn.   
 Creates an opportunity to leverage Corac's 
management and resources to develop further the 
acquired businesses - through Corac's resources and 
management focus there is an opportunity to grow 
and improve profitability in the future. 
 Contributes complementary, engineering design 
capabilities to Corac.  
 Strengthens Corac's presence in the oil and gas 
markets - Wellman Hunt Graham has a number of 
customers in the oil and gas markets which enhances 
the Group's routes to market for its core 
technologies.  
 Enhances skill sets and management experience 
gained through developing and commercialising 
technology within the Wellman Defence business as 
well as the existing manufacturing, assembly and 
supply chain management capability within Wellman 
Hunt Graham to enhance the delivery of Corac's 
technology to market. 
 
We believe this will further strengthen the Corac 
proposition for our partners, customers and investors.  It 
will transform Corac into a technology-led engineering 
group serving major global industries with established 
commercial relationships and a track record of revenue 
and profit contribution. 
 
Management and staff  
During the year we have strengthened the experience and 
depth of management at all levels whilst building our core 
R&D engineering expertise and knowledge with engineers 
joining us from a cross-section of industry. 
 
The establishment of the Business Development team is 
now delivering benefits as seen by the launch of our new 
website, improved industrial communications, and 
customer engagement. 
I have been delighted by the enthusiasm and commitment 
shown by our employees to the challenges and demands 
faced by the significant changes that have taken place 
within the business in the year. 
 
Summary and Outlook 
Significant progress has been made within Corac's 
business over the last year, strengthening the intellectual 
property portfolio, multiplying the number of future 
commercialisation opportunities and creating the platform 
for anticipated delivery of projects in 2012/13. Subject to 
successful subsequent partner field trial testing, the 
commencement of commercial exploitation across all 
three development programmes can be expected to 
follow. 
 
Corac now has a strong pipeline of opportunities for its 
IGC and DGC applications as well as renewed interest in 
industrial compressor applications, derived from a much 
more diverse group of companies encompassing not just 
oil and gas majors, but also industrial engineering groups.  
 
Over the last 18 months Corac has secured  1.5m new 
partner income to support our R&D development 
programmes. This will be recognised over the life of the 
projects with the majority expected to fall into 2012 linked 
to successful delivery and partner acceptance. 
 
The acquisition of Wellman has added management and 
engineering expertise, facilities, markets, revenues and 
profit contribution that will transform Corac into a 
commercial technology led engineering group with 
sources of sustainable revenue and contribution. On a pro 
forma basis, the revenues and operating profit generated 
by the acquired businesses will significantly reduce the 
Group's losses and cash burn in 2012 and accelerate 
progress towards profitability.   
 
I believe the enlarged group accelerates the recognition of 
Corac as a more commercial proposition for all our 
stakeholders.  
 
 
Phil Cartmell 
Executive Chairman  
16 April 2012 
Page 4 