 05 | Corac Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
www.corac.co.uk
66% Defence
12% Industrial
22% Energy
This has been a year of great achievement and transformation 
for Corac. We have expanded the Group through successful 
acquisition and opened a new purpose-designed facility 
to support our engineering and delivery activities. We have 
enhanced the value of the Group by adding cash earnings, 
investing in our intellectual property and commercialising 
our technologies.
The significant effort made in transforming the Group over 
the past 12 months, turning Corac into a balanced solution 
delivery organisation, has been reflected in the strength 
and quality of a growing pipeline of opportunities across  
all three businesses. I believe that we are now very well 
positioned to embark upon our next phase of business 
growth towards sustainable revenues and profits. 
We have continued to focus on customer solution  
programmes based upon proven technologies. We are 
pleased to see growing interest in our applications from 
established relationships in energy, defence and petro-
chemicals and interesting new challenges in areas such as 
energy recovery. Within these programmes we achieved 
a significant milestone when a factory tested DGC was 
accepted for delivery by our American partner for trials in 
their gas field.  
Delivering our strategy to invest in 
technology and build creative engineering 
solutions with partners in high-value 
sectors.
Executive Chairman's 
Statement
Group order book by sector
Evolving Strategy
Last year I spoke of our strategy to invest in and focus on 
technology programmes to bring commercially valuable 
propositions to market. Through the year we have expanded 
our commercial engagements through a broader portfolio  
of core technologies.  This was aided by the mid-year 
acquisitions which position us well to support our partners' 
energy and environmental challenges.
Our strategy is to grow the Group significantly by  
supplying engineered solutions that add value both for us 
and our customers. As a trusted innovator and provider of 
specialised systems based on our proprietary core  
technologies, we will maintain a position closely aligned 
with the needs of our markets. 
Players in the markets in which we operate make large 
investments in capital equipment and face their own  
performance and efficiency challenges. We have identified 
opportunities for our high value contributions to their 
programmes, and once established with them we see 
opportunities for repeat sales and long term maintenance 
agreements. 
The Board will continue to consider partnership and  
acquisition opportunities to enhance and broaden the 
Group's service offerings, extend its geographic reach and 
take the Group into new markets such as aviation, space 
or renewable energy where there is potential demand for its 
technologies. DGC system testing at Spadeadam
Photo courtesy of GL Noble Denton 06 | Corac Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
www.corac.co.uk
Successful Acquisitions
We were pleased to announce on 5 April 2012 that we had 
acquired Wellman Defence Limited and Wellman Hunt  
Graham Limited for a cash consideration of  10.9 million 
from the Wellman Group. The two companies have since 
been renamed as Atmosphere Control International Limited 
and Hunt Graham Limited, and are a key part of our  
strategy to broaden our technical and market proposition 
and add revenue and profit to support long term investment 
in technology development.
The acquired companies give us major defence industry 
clients and extend our reach in oil and gas and process 
industries which is vital in extending our market presence 
and our geographic footprint. They also open opportunities 
to cross-sell technology solutions across the Group.
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group's results are ahead 
of expectations. Adjusted Group EBITDA loss (before share 
based payment and exceptional items) was reduced to 
 4.1m (2011: loss  5.2m).  This is the net effect of positive 
contributions from ACI and HG alongside continued  
development spending and investment in the Group.
The Group had  6.7m net cash at year end (2011:  15.3m) 
and has built a Group order book of  14.4m (2011:  0.7m), 
benefitting in particular from ACI's strong long term order 
book. Our focus on business development around a wider 
portfolio of engineering propositions has provided us with 
a significant pipeline of qualified potential sales opportunities.
Solutions and Applications
I believe we now have a much clearer, simpler and more 
compelling set of commercial propositions based upon the 
core solution components that Corac companies can call 
upon to help our clients. These can be summarised as:
  A clean gas business based upon oxygen generation, 
gas cleansing and contaminant removal (ACI)
  A rotating machines business that combines advanced 
motors, contactless bearings, motor drive systems,  
sensors and advanced aerodynamics (CET)
  A thermal engineering business with great experience 
in heat exchangers, condensers, design and through life 
support (HG)
The Group business development plan is to mobilise all of 
these as technology components and to work with  
customers on their operational problems and to offer 
solutions that draw upon the full breadth of the Group's 
capability. The first evidence of this has been seen with the 
inclusion of shell and tube heat exchange designs in a  
CET compression system.
Widening Geographic Footprint
The expanded Group enjoys a wider geographic footprint 
through its customers and partners and this gives us great 
opportunities to engage with new international customers.  
Multiple propositions for thermal engineering,  
turbomachinery, compression and defence applications 
have recently been presented during business development 
visits to the United States, Europe and the Middle East.
Going forward, I intend for the geographies to receive  
increasing emphasis, as we move to a more holistic  
technology proposition based upon our Group-wide  
capabilities.
Broadening Market Focus
The Group's market focus has significantly broadened 
following the acquisition of ACI and Hunt Graham to be in 
energy, industrial turbomachinery and defence. We have 
strengthened the senior business development team with 
programme experience in these areas to take advantage of 
new business opportunities.
Creative use of our technology elements has also opened 
up opportunities in adjacent markets such as power  
generation and the nuclear build programme. We will  
continue to respond to user problems in new arenas where 
our technologies can provide positive outcomes.
This encourages me to believe that there is significant room 
for growth in each of our traditional markets, and also in the 
relevance of Corac's miniaturised technologies operating in 
harsh environments. This leads us to opportunities in other 
markets such as aerospace, renewable energy or carbon 
management, where the need for compact, efficient and 
innovative engineering is driving investment.
Corporate Development
Corporate development activity around strategic partnerships, 
potential mergers and acquisitions continues to be, and 
will remain, an important part of our growth strategy. 
We intend to expand our partnerships, such as that already 
established with Baker Hughes, with a focus on marketing, 
sales, technology development and delivery. 
We will look to make complementary acquisitions where 
established technologies enhance our existing business and 
will also consider opportunities for the Group to support 
under achieving or under valued technology companies 
and transform them for future success.
United Kingdom
Rest of EU
North America
Asia
Middle East
Rest of the World
18% Export
Executive Chairman's Statement
Geography of Sales 07 | Corac Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
www.corac.co.uk
Talented People
Corac depends on the talent and commitment of its people 
and I would again like to thank all our staff for their part in 
working through the changes and delivering the progress 
made this year.
We now have a very strong management team with a 
breadth of experience supporting the executive directors 
which enables the business to succeed whilst at the  
same time allowing the executive directors to focus on the 
continuing development and growth of the Group.
Corac currently employs 165 staff, with a comparatively 
lean overhead and high proportion of technical and delivery 
staff. We have continued to build teams around the high 
level appointments of previous years, through leadership 
development from within, strategic external recruitment 
and careful use of associates and contractors to manage 
peaks of activity.
We have also continued our commitment to apprenticeships, 
with six young people currently engaged across the Group.
Our goal is to make Corac a place where talent can thrive 
and be recognised, where we share the excitement and  
rewards of what we and our customers achieve and we 
enjoy the route that takes us there.
Outlook
A stronger Group with a collection of mature and maturing 
technologies and enhanced routes to market is yielding 
increasing interest from ever wider markets. Our immediate 
focus will be to:
  Build on the strength of the capital expenditure in the 
markets we supply
  Apply Group resources to invest in technology evolution 
and staff capability
  Maintain strong technical and commercial relationships 
with our key customers and partners
  Offer engineering propositions that expoit our mature 
and emerging technologies
Investment is growing in energy and environment markets 
and Corac's technologies are well placed to meet this 
demand.
We will continue to deliver high value propositions to our 
customers with increasingly positive results from these in 
2013. We start the year with a strong order book and  
pipeline, and our strategy will continue to reduce losses 
further through 2013 and 2014 and become a business  
delivering strong margins and generating shareholder 
value.
On this basis I have great confidence in the prospects for 
the Group going forwards. 
Corac is a dynamic and rewarding place 
to work. We apply unique technologies to 
interesting challenges with a focus on 
personal and team performance.
Executive Chairman's Statement