 Chairman's Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Introduction
The year ended 31 December 2007 has been a difficult one for Corero. Detailed reasons for this were set out in my
statements to shareholders on 27 September 2007 and 23 November 2007. These can be summarised as poor trading
in the Financial Markets Division coupled with a significant increase in the cost base owing to an over optimistic
reaction to the successes experienced in 2006. The problems started to become clear by the middle of 2007 and as a
result the Board instigated a full review resulting in the creation of a business recovery plan. This plan included a
restructuring of the business's operations and focus on the cost base. It was implemented in the second half of 2007.
Key action points in the plan were:
l Recognition that Corero has two totally separate businesses, Financial Markets and Business Systems, and to
reflect this their respective managing directors were appointed to the plc Board
l Chief Executive, Jarlath McGee and Finance Director, Ian Selby left without direct replacement
l Corero group central costs for finance, IT, personnel and marketing needed to be reduced and considerable
responsibility for these costs to be handed back to the businesses
l Overall head count was to be reduced by 20 per cent and re-aligned to give a stronger focus on sales, customer
support and revenue generation
l A more rigorous revenue forecasting and budgeting system was to be put in place
These actions have now been completed and although some of the benefits were seen in 2007 the full impact of the
changes will only be realised in the year ending 31 December 2008.
Results
This is the first full year that Corero has reported under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ). For the
year ended 31 December 2007, the Group reported revenues of  5.24 million (2006:  6.29 million) with the  1.05
million revenue reduction due to  1.35 million reduction in Financial Markets partially offset by a  0.30 million
increase in Business Systems. The loss before IFRS adjustments*, restructuring, interest and tax charges was  0.80
million (2006: profit of  0.67 million). The loss after tax and all charges was  1.44 million (2006: loss of  0.03
million). Interest charges were  0.35 million and restructuring charges  0.40 million.
The working capital position of the Company remains strong. Cash at the end of 2007 was  825,000 (2006:
 907,000). The administrative cost base for 2007 was  5.69 million an increase of  0.38 million over 2006. As we
entered 2008 the cost run rate has been reduced to  4.98 million. In addition, our contracted backlog of support
and services revenue was  3.02 million at 31 December 2007 which has increased to cover 61% of the 2008
administrative expense.
* IFRS adjustments - holiday pay accrual, amortisation of customer lists, capitalisation of research and development, amortisation of
research and development.
Business Systems Division
2007 was a successful year for the Business Systems division which not only achieved record revenue and profit
figures but also launched several new products.
At the beginning of the year we set two strategic targets for the business; to continue to build our share of the City
Academy market which had emerged as a sizeable opportunity and to release  Eclipse NG' a new product suite
designed to both consolidate the best elements of our two existing Learner Management products, Eclipse & LMS,
and also to offer increased functionality utilizing the very latest web portal technology.
Of the 20 new name contracts we won during the year, 14 were City Academy clients based in cities such as Bristol,
Grimsby, London and Leicester. These new contract wins meant that at the end of 2007 we had achieved a 25 per
cent market share of academies opened since the City Academy initiative began. Current government plans are to
increase the number of City Academies to 243 by the year 2010 which represents an exciting opportunity for this
division.
Corero plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
4 Chairman's Statement
continued
In our other key market, Further Education, the Company has won several new clients. Of particular note was
Haringey Sixth Form Centre, part of Haringey Council, who bought our integrated finance and learner management
solution. South Trafford College, Sir George Monoux Sixth Form College and Central Sussex College all invested in
our financial and web solutions. Finally Peterborough Adult College and Epping Forest College signed up for the
newly released Eclipse NG Learner Management platform.
As we move further into 2008 we believe that the education sector will remain competitive but the investment in
our new Learner Management product, Eclipse NG, is already generating additional revenue and planning is
underway to offer new and innovative products from our core Financials suite to both existing and future
customers. We are confident of another excellent contribution from the Business Systems division in 2008.
Financial Markets Division 
2007 was a poor year for Financial Markets compared to a strong year in 2006. The single largest reason was a
serious delay to a major investment banking project for which we were unable to compensate with other sales.
Although we signed two new clients for the Blue Curve hosted service, Bank of Ireland and Blackmont Capital of
Canada, as well as renewing three Blue Curve licence agreements we did not meet our own expectations for new
customer wins.
As a result a number of significant changes were made in the Financial Markets division. These changes have been
necessary to bring the division to a position where it is capable of producing sustainable future profit and growth.
The reduction in headcount, changes in the organisation and the integration of the CAPS and Blue Curve teams
makes us confident we can now deliver improved customer service from a reduced cost base.
2008 will be challenging. However, we enter it with greater confidence and a high degree of visibility in our
contracted revenues due to sales in 2006 and 2007 of hosted services, annual licences and support revenues. We
plan to extend our operations in North America and introduce further improvements to both CAPS and Blue Curve
to maintain their premier position in the market. There is an improving pipeline for these products from new clients
and given that the Company has doubled the Financial Markets customer base in the past two years and 75 per cent
of revenue is historically generated from our existing clients, this reduces the ongoing revenue risk of the Company .
Business Model and Strategy 
Our strategy at the operating level is to run Corero as two separate businesses, Financial Markets and Business
Systems, with the minimum of central resources required for co-ordination; development and implementation of
corporate strategy; and to meet public company requirements. The short term focus for 2008 is to restore the
Company to profitability while continuing to make investment in our US operation, enhancements to our products
and the development of our staff, all of which are necessary to achieve sustainable organic growth. In the longer
term we intend to increase the size of both businesses through organic growth and acquisitions or mergers.
Staff
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of our staff for the contribution they have made in 2007. Whilst the
overall results were disappointing this masks many individual achievements of great merit. As part of the re-
structuring it was necessary to reduce staff numbers at the end of 2007 and although in most cases this was
achieved through natural attrition some redundancies were necessary. I am confident we now have a talented
group of people capable of taking Corero forward.
Corero plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
5 Chairman's Statement
continued
Outlook
The Board believes the results of the recovery plan should become evident in 2008. Our backlog of business is the
strongest ever; our pipeline of realistic opportunities is growing and our cost base has been brought into line with
the perceived revenue opportunity. In both divisions our product lines remain competitive in their markets. We
have taken account in our planning of an uncertain UK and global economy. With the planned opening of several
new City Academies, the availability of the new Eclipse NG product and the public sector focus we feel the Business
Systems Division will be largely immune from downturn in the economy. Any risk resides in the Financial Markets
Division with its focus on investment banks, brokers and similar financial institutions. We have taken a cautious
approach with the expectation that most of our revenues will come from our existing customer base which has
doubled in size since the beginning of 2006.The Board has been encouraged by trading in the past 3 months
(December - February) which has shown a small overall profit and as a result is confident of a much improved
performance in 2008.
Peter Waller
Chairman
19 March 2008
Corero plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
6