 3
 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
It is a tremendous compliment to the management team and their staff that, in what was an eventful year 
for the Company, Cranswick continued its record of growth. There were a number of challenges in the period 
including a serious fire at the Cottingham site. The year also saw the rationalisation of feed milling capacity, 
completion of a major capital investment programme, the setting up of a joint venture to produce traditional 
dry cured bacon and the acquisition of Perkins Chilled Foods along with an associated fund raising exercise. 
The Company has made significant progress during the year. It gives me immense pride to be reporting further 
increases in turnover, profit and earnings per share, each to new highs, and with confidence in Cranswick's 
future prospects the Board is proposing an increase of 11 per cent in the final dividend.
RESULTS
Turnover in the year increased by 18 per cent to  318.5 million. Sales in the food operations, including 
agribusiness, increased significantly rising 19 per cent from  240.0 million to  286.6 million this year. The latter 
includes sales of  26.7 million made by Perkins Chilled Foods since acquisition in January 2005. Sales in the pet  
business rose 6 per cent to  31.9 million.
Profit before taxation, prior to goodwill amortisation and exceptionals, was up by 12 per cent to  23.6 million. 
Earnings per share on the same basis, allowing for the additional shares in issue and a lower tax charge, were 
up 15 per cent to 41.1p. Profit for the financial year attributable to members was  12.8m.
Exceptional costs totalling  1.9 million (net) are attributable to the reorganisation of production facilities 
following the capital investment programme and insurance in connection with the fire at the Cottingham 
site. The exceptional items gave rise to a net cash inflow of  1.0 million and we anticipate further cash 
receipts in the medium term from the sale of three freehold sites which are surplus to requirements following 
the reorganisation.
The results are considered in more detail in the Review of Activities by the Chief Executives of the food and 
pet businesses.
CASH FLOW
The underlying cashflow of the business continued to be very strong with the net cash inflow from operating 
activities generating  25.6 million compared with  21.3 million the previous year. The cash outflow on capital 
expenditure was  18.7 million compared with a depreciation charge of  5.8 million, the main items being the 
new facilities for sausage, charcuterie and pet food. 
The cost of the Perkins acquisition was  83.3 million which was funded out of new borrowing facilities 
totalling  120 million (which also replaced existing debt) and a small share placing of  9.1 million. Interest 
cover for the year was 13 times and remains at a comfortable level with the acquisition and funding costs 
included on a full year basis based on historic performance. We ended the year with net debt of  92.4 million, 
107 per cent of shareholders funds.
C R A N S W I C K 4
The food division incorporates the original agribusiness activities and
accounted for 90 per cent of overall sales in the year...  5
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing an increase in the final dividend of 11 per cent to 9.8p per ordinary share. Along with 
the interim dividend of  4.7p per ordinary share paid in January 2005  this makes a total dividend for the year 
of 14.5p per ordinary share, an increase of 10 per cent on last year's 13.2p. The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders, will be paid on 9 September 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
29 July 2005. Shares will go ex-dividend on 27 July 2005. Shareholders will again have the option to receive 
the dividend by way of scrip issue. 
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
Cranswick was formed by farmers in the early 1970's to produce pig feed. In 1988 the Board embarked on a 
strategy to broaden the base of the Company's activities and to seek opportunities to develop into related 
areas offering greater scope to add value to the Company's processes. Activities have since been extended 
from this agricultural base into the food and pet sectors. 
The development of the pet activities commenced with the acquisition of a bird seed business local to 
the feed mill and was an extension of the Company's expertise in raw materials and milling. Subsequent 
acquisitions have extended the activities into the production of small animal food and the supply of fish and 
aquatic products.
The food division incorporates the original agribusiness activities and accounted for 90 per cent  of overall sales 
in the year. It has evolved into a business focused predominantly on the supply of fresh and processed food to 
the UK food retail, food manufacturing and food service sectors. This development has been achieved through 
a combination of acquisitions and subsequent organic growth, with Cranswick now supplying a range of fresh 
pork, gourmet sausages, premium cooked meats, traditional dry cured bacon, charcuterie and sandwiches to its 
customers from a number of production facilities in the UK.
The acquisition of Perkins Chilled Foods, one of the UK's leading providers of cooked meats and poultry to 
the UK food retail and food service sectors, in January 2005 was an important step in Cranswick's strategic 
development. It provides the Company with increased critical mass in the growing UK cooked meats market, 
including the premium pre-sliced and pre-packed segment, an area which we had been targeting for future 
growth; greater market share in relation to the supply of cooked meats to the major UK food retailers, 
continuing the trend of consolidation within the UK pig meats sector; and a broader range of products, 
enabling us to offer our customers a more comprehensive service across the UK cooked meats category.
I would like to welcome Nick Tranfield, managing director of Perkins Chilled Foods, his fellow directors and 
staff to Cranswick and look forward to their contribution towards the Company's continuing development. 
As anticipated the business has made a positive contribution towards the results of the Company, has been 
successfully merged with our pre-existing cooked meats business and is integrating well into the Group.
C H A I R M A N ' S S T A T E M E N T
C R A N S W I C K 6
Initiatives to broaden the customer base and the product range are
meeting with success...  7
BOARD STRUCTURE
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year. Jim Bloom, who was one of the founders 
of the Company, retired at the 2004 AGM. Jim's involvement was greatly valued by all and on behalf of 
everyone at Cranswick I would like to thank him for the enormous contribution he made to the successful 
development of the business from its origins as a local feed mill to where it is today. 
On Jim's retirement I was appointed executive chairman, Bernard Hoggarth appointed chief executive of the 
food activities and Derek Black appointed chief executive of the pet business. Bernard and Derek were previously 
managing directors of their respective areas. The non-executive presence on the Board has been increased with 
two new appointments. Patrick Farnsworth joined the Board in August 2004 and the appointment of John 
Worby, with effect from August 1st 2005, has been announced today. They have a number of years experience 
in the food sector and we welcome them to the Company.
EMPLOYEES
Cranswick has a devolved operational culture which seeks to harness the benefits of autonomous business 
units whilst utilising the expertise within the Company to coordinate strategies in a number of key areas such 
as sales and marketing, buying and technical.
Whilst there is considerable expertise within the management teams at the individual units there can be no 
underestimating the importance of all the people at Cranswick  in achieving the growth to date and in the 
continuation of the Company's successful track record. One way in which employees participate in the success of 
the Company is through the SAYE share scheme and it was good to see a large number benefiting this year.
I mentioned earlier that the year had not been without its challenges. To have continued the growth record 
of the Company was especially encouraging. On behalf of the Board I thank all our people at Cranswick. 
OUTLOOK
The Company is well positioned to continue its successful development. It has products in growing sectors 
of the market. Significant investment has been made in operational facilities to ensure that it continues to 
produce at the highest level of quality and on the most efficient basis. Operational teams with successful 
track records continue to drive their businesses forward supported by the resources and expertise within the 
Group. Initiatives to broaden the customer base and the product range are meeting with success. 
The Board looks forward to the opportunities and challenges that will arise as we continue the Company's 
progress.  
Martin Davey
Chairman
24 May 2005
C H A I R M A N ' S S T A T E M E N T
C R A N S W I C K 8
Successful in the 2004 SuperMeat Awards... 