 4
Chairman's Statement
In spite of the very difficult conditions
prevailing in the mobile phone after market
services (AMS) market in 2003, the Group
produced satisfactory operating margins and
generated positive cashflow, even after the
costs associated with acquisitions and
restructuring were absorbed. These changes
have been made to ensure we continue to
offer value added services to our customers.
During 2003, CRC Group made material
progress in developing the wide range 
of market opportunities it has identified,
constructing a strong platform to extend these
further, both in the short and longer term. It
established a significant presence in Western
Europe, built a wide number of new customer
relationships while consolidating existing
relationships, expanded the range of products
serviced within its core market sectors and
restructured its mobile phone repair activities
to reflect both its revised business base and the
increasing opportunities created.
The Group has entered the new financial year
with a stronger balance of business, with a
more diverse customer base, increased
technological capabilities and with a greater
international operating presence. CRC is now
positioned to deliver after market services on
a pan-European basis to customers in the IT,
mobile phone AMS and Home Gateway
markets.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Sales were  71.2 million (2002:  109.6 million).
Sales, excluding revenues from our Nokia
contract, grew by 24%. Operating profit before
goodwill amortisation and exceptionals was
 5.6 million (2002:  9.4 million) yielding
adjusted operating margins of 7.8% (2002:
8.6%). Goodwill amortisation was  825k
(2002:  795k). Exceptional items relating
solely to the restructuring of the Group's
communications businesses were  841k
(2002:  Nil). Profit before tax was  3.7 million
(2002:  7.7 million). Earnings per share (pre
amortisation of goodwill and exceptionals)
were 17.43p (2002: 28.05p). Basic earnings
per share were 11p (2002: 21.0p). 
Operating cashflow remained strong at 
 7.3 million (2002:  9.3 million). The Group
undertook the restructuring of its mobile
phone repair facilities and the purchase of
three businesses while still increasing net funds
to  2.1million (2002: net debt of  1.8 million).
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 4.5p (2002: 4.5p) which would give rise
to a full year dividend of 7p (2002: 7p).
ACQUISITIONS
Three acquisitions extend CRC's geographical
reach, customer breadth and technology
base. In December 2003 the Group acquired
the Repair Centre of Siemens Business
Services (SBS) in Paderborn, Germany, and
the Wincor Nixdorf Engineering Centre in
Berlin. The acquisition of the two German
businesses was accompanied by the
signature of contracts with an initial life of
three years with SBS and Wincor Nixdorf.
These contracts together with a one year
contract with Fujitsu Siemens Computers
represent sales of  55 million over the
contract lifetime at current run rates. Earlier
in the year CRC acquired ADP Technical
Services Limited, a small UK based repairer
of laptops and personal digital assistants
whose customers include HP and Toshiba.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CRC delivered a solid performance in 2003,
given the very difficult conditions prevailing
in the mobile phone repair market. The level
of sales transacted with Nokia, CRC's largest
customer, reduced by  45 million compared
to 2002 as a result of the improved reliability
of Nokia mobile handsets and changes
made to the service management contract
between CRC and Nokia. CRC's mobile phone
repair facilities were correspondingly
restructured, resulting in the closure of its
plant in Rugby in the third quarter of 2003
and a headcount reduction at its plant in
Huntingdon. In January 2004 we also closed
our Nokia-specific operation in Ireland as the
final part of this restructuring project. 
The contractual changes set out above and
associated costs had a negative impact on
full year profit and earnings and offset solid
growth elsewhere in the business. The
residual impact of the reduced scope of
activities will be felt in 2004, commencing in
the first quarter.
However, approximately half of the value of
sales lost following the Nokia changes has
been replaced as a result of the three
acquisitions made throughout the year.
CRC continues to enjoy a strong relationship
with Nokia. In the UK, the Group has played
a leading role in supporting the launch of
new mobile handsets as well as the new
Nokia N-Gage gaming console. In Poland,
we have extended the scope of the work we
carry out on behalf of Nokia and are now
carrying out repairs on handsets for the
Austrian markets in addition to those of
Germany and Poland. In the UK, we have
now extended our services to Nokia beyond
handsets and have started to provide call
centre support for the Nokia Freeview set-
top box.
Overall in mobile phone AMS, we made
material progress in broadening our customer
base, both by sector served and internationally,
with new customers including Carphone
Warehouse, LG Electronics and BSquare, a
US personal digital assistant brand as well as
A solid performance in 2003: healthy operating margins, strong cashflow and a better
balanced Group positioned for growth in mainland Europe  5
Nokia in Austria. The company continues to
serve the requirements of Vodafone through
its partnership with UTL.
In our Home Gateway markets, we maintained
our history of growth, processing record
numbers of set-top boxes for Telewest and
ntl:. CRC is now integrated into the set-top
box supply chain for both these cable
operators and is working closely with them
to optimise their asset utilisation. Concurrently,
we maintain strong working relationships
with leading set-top box brands, most
notably Pace and Scientific Atlanta, in order
to optimise the service to the cable operators.
Good progress was also made in supporting
the sales of the Amstrad emailer.
We have extended the scope of CRC's IT
markets considerably through the three
important acquisitions made in 2003. Our
new ADP business has taken us into the fast
expanding personal digital assistant market for
the first time, while simultaneously establishing
a firm foothold for CRC in the laptop
computer sector. Our acquisitions in Germany
both substantially increase our geographical
market facilities and opportunities and
strengthen our skills and capacities in a
number of key service areas.
In our established IT activities, our Thame
plant again consolidated and increased its
sales and operating margins, securing
additional business from NCR for repairs on
point of sale and automatic teller machine
systems and from Logicom for a variety of
printers. Thame continued to make innovatory
advances in the services it delivers to Sun
Microsystems and Getronics, reflecting the
Group's overall strategy of creating market
leading standards of service excellence. 
Historically, our mobile phone AMS revenues
have accounted for over two thirds of Group
turnover. Going forward, as a result of our
acquisitions and the other developments
described, we anticipate that sales to IT
customers will account for 46% of Group
turnover, mobile phone AMS sales 36% and
sales to Home Gateway customers 18%.
OUTLOOK
CRC's strategy remains the continued
development of a secure and sustainable
balance of profit streams, through a growing
international spread of customers and
increasing range of business streams. The
markets addressed by CRC are fast moving
with demanding customers who continue to
introduce new products and services and are
increasingly making sourcing decisions on a
pan-European or global basis.
Opportunities in the IT market have been
considerably enhanced by the acquisition of the
two German businesses. The larger customer
base addressed and the enhanced technology
capability that CRC now has in the IT market
positions it well for growth on a European basis.
Following the strong progress made in 2003
in CRC's Home Gateway markets, a major
investment is planned in 2004 with the
establishment of a centre of excellence for
set-top box screening and repair in a new
facility in Glenrothes.
The mobile phone repair activities are now on
a sound footing following the restructuring
programme which was carried out. Handset
repair volumes showed a modest increase in
the second half of 2003. The Group is well
placed to capitalise on opportunities in the
mobile phone AMS market on a European
basis. However, as already announced, the
full year effect of the reduction of the sales
and profit contribution associated with
Nokia's changed warranty and spare parts
management activities will impact 2004.
With the Group's German acquisitions
having been completed in December last
year, developing the full capabilities of our
new facilities over the coming months and
years will be important to the Group. CRC is
now better positioned than a year ago to
capitalise on market opportunities through
its increased international presence, its
development of service solutions for the new
technologies of camera phones, smart
phones and mobile computing products 
and its commodity repair capability in Poland.
It remains the firm intention of the Board for
the Group to respond flexibly to new
developments while building on the widening
opportunities accessible through its re-
balanced business platform and maintaining
a policy of prudent financial management.
These factors give us confidence for the
future of CRC as the opportunities available
to the re-balanced Group offset and
eventually surmount the changed realities in
the communications sector.
I should like to thank, on behalf of the Board
and our shareholders, the Group's many
employees, including our growing number 
of overseas staff, who have shown great
commitment and enthusiasm over a
challenging period.
D Ryan
Chairman
17 February 2004
David Ryan
Chairman