 4 Creston plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman's &
Chief Executive's
Statement
2007 Group Highlights
Creston enjoyed a sixth consecutive year of growth and success, with revenue and Headline PBIT
growing by 60 per cent and 75 per cent respectively (reported PBIT increased by 75 per cent).
We are delighted to report that Headline and reported DEPS increased by 24 per cent and
22 per cent respectively, and that close management of the business resulted in an industry
leading Headline PBIT margin of 20 per cent. (reported PBIT margin 16 per cent.)
We continued to invest in high quality businesses with the acquisitions of ICM Research Ltd
(ICM),Tullo Marshall Warren Ltd, together with its sister company Colombus Communications
Ltd (TMW), and PAN Advertising Ltd (PAN), to give us greater strength in the key area of
healthcare.Acquisitive growth was underpinned by good like-for-like revenue and profit
growth.This year saw us launch digital start-up ventures, newvista research and SWAY . We
also entered into a trading partnership with Latitude, a leading search optimisation company.
Finally, as the US market is an important one we wish to exploit, we were delighted to appoint
Steve Blamer as CEO of Creston US.
The changing market
We believe that the shape of the marketing communication landscape is changing rapidly and
clients will reward groups who are structured for their needs of tomorrow. Creston's success
in winning market share is due to its ability to offer clients services across the range of marketing
disciplines providing them with superior insight into the speed of consumer behavioural change
coupled with integrated media-neutral planning and a deep understanding of the evolving digital
landscape.We can also offer relevant and compelling multi-channel (ie online and offline)
creative capabilities and advanced measurable performance metrics, which provide a
diversified client proposition.
Acquisitions
Our view of the changing market is a critical influence on our acquisition strategy. We focus
on potential targets which will enhance our portfolio of industry specialisations and which
allow us, as a Group, to respond to the changing needs of our clients.
During the year Creston made three acquisitions each of which fulfiled our highly selective
acquisition criteria.
ICM was acquired on 17 May 2006 for a maximum consideration of  36.4 million. ICM is
one of the UK's largest market research groups and has a market leading reputation for innovative,
premium quality qualitative and quantitative research. On the back of this acquisition Creston's
Insight division has grown in critical mass which it has utilised to develop a number of strategic
innovations, the most significant of which includes the launch of newvista research, an online
market initiative. ICM's clients include BT , NOP , Norwich Union, O2, Orange andVodafone.
Creston has had
another year of
excellent results
and continues
to invest for the
changing shape
of the market place
David Marshall
Non-Executive Chairman
Don Elgie
Chief Executive Officer TMW was acquired on 17 May 2006 for a maximum consideration of  38.1 million.TMW
is one of the UK's largest direct and digital marketing companies.The acquisition adds
considerable strength to the Creston MARCOMS division, particularly in the areas of insight,
data mining/analysis and digital. In the latter, the separately branded digitaltmw has grown in
size and is able to boast a workforce of over 50 employees developing a strong reputation in
its own right.TMW's clients include British Airways, Diageo, eBay, FT, Nissan, Sainsbury, Unilever
andT -Mobile.
PAN was acquired on 3 December 2006 for a maximum consideration of  18.5 million. PAN
is one of the UK's leading healthcare advertising and communication companies.Although UK
based, PAN is very much an international brand with over 50 per cent of its revenue generated
internationally. PAN, alongside RDC, forms Creston's market-leading integrated international
healthcare proposition. PAN's clients include BMS Medical Imaging, Boehringer Ingelheim, GSK,
Ipsen, Schering and Servier.
Online and Digital
The UK digital and online market is enjoying the highest rate of growth (41 per cent Source:
IAB/PWC) of any discipline in the marketing communications industry and the key challenge
is the proper integration of digital communications into the marketing mix.
Consumer brand consideration is not formed through isolated channels and so clients are
increasingly demanding relevant, compelling multi-channel creative campaigns. Creston has
responded to this challenge through numerous initiatives. It has re-structured the DLKW
Group by integrating dlkw dialogue into the core of the creative agency.
In November 2006, Creston launched newvista research in the Insight division, a revolutionary
approach to generating robust online data. newvista allows Creston to offer clients a fully
integrated traditional and online research capability and, in six months since its launch, it
has enjoyed rapid success with annualised sales of  2 million via wins such as RBS,Tesco
and Vodafone.
In December 2006, it launched SWAY , an online brand management and e-influencer initiative
enabling clients to manage, re-act to and/or promote brand messages online.This product was
a joint initiative between MARCOMS and PR divisions.
In March 2007 Creston announced a trading partnership with Latitude Group Ltd, the world-
class search optimisation company. The partnership allows each of our operating companies
to provide a comprehensive search engine marketing offering to their clients.
With the acquisition ofTMW during the year and the launch of newvista research and SWAY ,
Creston's digital offering has generated revenue in excess of  10 million during the year and
has a headcount in excess of 100 employees.This accounts for approximately 15 per cent of
Group revenue, increasing in absolute terms by 141 per cent compared to 2006.Although
the Group's digital business is embedded within its core operations it is now of sufficient size
to compete against any stand alone digital business.
This demonstrates Creston's ability to react to the evolving digital channels in the marketing
communications industry and we believe that it has a strong platform from which to continue
its growth in this area in 2008.
International
Although Creston's operations are mainly UK based (with the exception ofTMW France
and Creston US), we are able to service a significant number of clients internationally such
as General Motors, Canon,T oshiba, Exxon, SCATena, Nissan, BA, GSK. In 2007, 18 per cent
of our turnover was generated internationally, having grown from 12 per cent in 2006.
In order to better serve our clients outside the UK, Creston's stated aim is to develop an
international presence with centres around Europe, the US,Asia and Latin America.We are
taking a cautious approach to date because of our determination not to compromise any
of our rigorous acquisition criteria.
2007 saw Creston take its first steps towards international expansion via a presence overseas.
In January 2007TMW France was launched to service its Nissan Europe account.
In March 2007, Steve Blamer was appointed CEO of the newly created Creston plc US
Holdings Inc in NewY ork, USA. Steve has an excellent reputation within the US marketing
communications industry having held the position of CEO both at Foote Cone and Belding
Worldwide and at Grey Worldwide. His appointment adds weight to Creston's offering in the
US and will facilitate the development of a Creston US Group based on similar core principles
as the UK.
www.creston.com 5 6 Creston plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman's &
Chief Executive's
Statement
continued
Client Overview and New Business
The Group strives to add value to its clients' marketing efforts. In addition to continuing to
grow with existing clients, our excellent new business record particularly in the latter half
of the year, included annualised revenue in excess of  10 million from Alfa Romeo, eBay,The
FinancialTimes, GSK, Lexus, Morrisons, Nissan Europe, Sainsbury andVodafone among others.
With the acquisitions of ICM,TMW and PAN, and our strong new business record, Creston is
in a position to offer sector-specific expertise across an increasingly diverse range of industries.
The Group is proud of its growing portfolio of blue chip and international clients and with
this growth our client concentration has improved. Our largest client represents 8 per cent
of total Group revenue (2006: 12 per cent), while ourT op 10 clients represent 37 per cent
(2006: 52 per cent).
Synergy is one of the core principles upon which the concept of Creston is based. 2007
saw the strongest performance in terms of synergistic client referrals within the Group, with
annualised revenue of  1 million including clients such as Alfa Romeo, Canon, Hyundai-Kia,
Nutricia, Servier and the World Heart Foundation. Of the Group'sT op 30 clients, over
50 per cent are served by two or more of the Group's divisions.
Board
We are delighted to welcome to the Board Andrew Dougal as a Non-Executive Director
and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Malcolm Wall as a Non-Executive Director
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.The Board would like to thank all staff
and colleagues for their contributions and efforts for last year's excellent performance.The
Board would particularly like to thank David Hanger and Peter Cunard who joined the Board
at the inception of Creston as a marketing services group and are stepping down at the AGM
following six years of valuable and committed service to the Group.
Outlook
Creston has demonstrated the effectiveness of its business model for six consecutive years.
0As our profile continues to rise, an increasing number of high quality companies and
individuals are approaching us.We have good forward visibility of earnings and believe we will
continue to outperform our larger competitors.We are excited by the Group's prospects and
have full confidence in being able to achieve another excellent year in 2008.
David Marshall Don Elgie
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Group Revenue by
Client Industry Sector
Financial Services  17%
Automotive  15%
Food & Beverage  12%
Pharmaceuticals/Health 10%
Retail  9%
T echnology 9%
T elecommunications 6%
Public Sector/Non Profit 5%
Research 3%
Transport 3%
Leisure 2%
Other 9%
 