 CROMA SECURITY SOLUTIONS GROUP PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 June 2013
I have pleasure in reporting to shareholders the Group's final results for the year to 30 June 2013 which has seen 
tangible progress in shaping the Group. 
The focus of the Group remains that of delivering sustained organic growth by concentrating on our unique 
offering to the security market.  Our aim is to offer a total, vertically integrated security service to clients who 
demand the most exacting service and technology. The security market remains fragmented and presents a clear 
opportunity for an integrated provider. 
Operational Overview 
Since our acquisition of the CSS Companies in 2012, we have successfully integrated our Board and management 
teams.  Likewise we have integrated our security service offering into a joined up and simple proposition.  
However, growth in cross selling between divisions has been slower than initially anticipated due to the 
constraints of existing contracts and geographical separation. 
The maintenance and expansion of solutions to our present clients is fundamental.  We continue to develop 
historical clients, some of whom currently use a diverse range of contractors, in order to bring all their needs 
under one roof when this makes good business sense for both parties.   
In tandem, we are also aggressively marketing our unique technical solutions: Fastvein  and our Vehicle Impact 
Protection System.  These products which delivered Group revenues of  0.1m in 2013 have required more 
investment in time and funding but it is vital that the Group stands apart in innovation.  This is not innovation for 
its own sake, we have developed products that will improve client's safety and security while cementing valuable 
intellectual property for the Group and our Shareholders. 
Group Financials 
The financial results of the Group reflect the improvements resulting from the acquisition of the CSS Companies 
in 2012 and the financial restructuring which occurred at the time. 
Group turnover increased broadly in line with our expectations from  9.9m to  13.2m.  However, with 
investments being made in infrastructure to support the Group's development into a full service national security 
provider, and with some delays in our order pipeline, we delivered operating profits of  0.09m after amortisation 
and impairment charges of  0.30m.  Although this is an improvement from our prior year operating loss of 
 0.41m, this was still below our expectations at the start of the year.  The Board remain optimistic that we will 
see a continued improvement in operating profits for the coming year. 
Our balance sheet net assets are at  8.56m (2012:  8.40m) including intangible assets of  7.19m.   
Cash flow was positive at  0.39m which helped us repay the final tranche of the higher coupon loan notes.  With 
our investment in improved credit control procedures we expect our debtor days to continue to improve and our 
cash flow to remain positive. 
2 CROMA SECURITY SOLUTIONS GROUP PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 June 2013
The results of our main operating divisions are discussed below: 
Croma Vigilant 
Croma Vigilant continues to operate in the upper echelon of the manned guarding market with the delivery of its 
manned guarding, key holding and commissionaire services and is the largest revenue contributor to the Group. 
In March 2013, Croma Vigilant was successful with a retender to its largest customer and will now continue to 
deliver its services to them for a further three years from its base in London.  This contract delivered guarding and 
commissionaire revenues of  3.71m during 2013 and was re-negotiated with improved terms. 
Previously announced contract wins with NHS Walsall and UK Land delivered revenues of  0.47m and there was 
and expansion of our contract with one of the UK largest infrastructure utility Groups to provide guarding 
services for its electricity supply contract in Scotland.  This delivered revenues of  0.85m (2012:  0.50m). 
Croma Security Systems, Croma Locksmiths & Croma Biometric 
The first full year of trading since the merger of the Group has resulted in improved profitability at the gross 
profit level. 
Working together with Odeon Cinemas, Croma Security Systems and Croma Locksmiths have supported a 
national maintenance schedule that has proven to be onerous and costly.  The Board identified that this had an 
adverse effect on gross margin and so renegotiated with Odeon on a region by region basis.  The new contact, 
which will allow the Group to only service locations local to its existing infrastructure, should deliver cost 
savings and together with a revised costing structure, gross margin margins are expected to improve.  Odeon has 
expressed confidence in Croma Security Solution's delivery of new installations due to the cumulative knowledge 
and experience of our team that install these systems. 
We have identified that parts of our existing engineering team was an expensive resource for installation, and so 
we have moved to a model where installation and first fix is carried out where possible by sub-contractors on a 
fixed price basis, thus controlling the costs of installation.  This is the model used by most major security 
specialists in the UK today.  Despite this we have retained many of our highly technical engineers to ensure 
continued quality commissioning and handover to our clients. 
The Board has identified a need to be more proactive in selling specialist tailored solutions into niche markets and 
we have invested in business development staff to target specific markets with bespoke security solutions.  
The Croma Security Systems offering has been further enhanced with further developments of two unique 
intellectual properties in Fastvein  and its Vehicle Impact Protection System (VIPs ) for which it has received 
due recognition in the media for its innovative high end security technology. 
Due to recent market indicators, it is toward our intellectual property products where we intend to focus in order 
to maintain our competitive edge. 
3 CROMA SECURITY SOLUTIONS GROUP PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 June 2013
Fastvein  
This year we have further developed the Fastvein  product and software and we are preparing to launch an 
entirely new suite of software along with a new range of products that are ready for delivery and installation to 
our clients on a more commoditised basis rather than our previously specialised bespoke solution. 
The Board has also identified that there are opportunities to exploit its intellectual property in Fastvein  outside 
of its core markets.  One example is in the medical sector where we hope that the licencing of the technology to 
third parties will yield revenues. 
Higher margin installations such as FastVein  and with Colas, for which the vehicle protection system has been 
well received, will be targeted to boost turnover and profit margin. 
VIPS 
During the last two years, our technical team has worked in conjunction with Bosch and our customer Colas 
Traffic Management, to produce a high end solution for the safety of operatives working on our motorways.  
VIPS was recognised with an industry award for innovation.  Colas is completing the installation of this 
technology to its entire fleet of impact protection vehicles and we anticipate receiving a new order from another 
highways contractor to provide the same VIPs technology.  
Since it has the ability to save lives by giving due warning of a potential vehicle collision, the market for our 
VIPS technology extends beyond highway operatives and indeed the UK.  We anticipate marketing VIPS to the 
Police, Fire and Rescue services, Vehicle Recovery Operators and into any other vehicle with a need to stop on a 
highway anywhere in the world. 
In CSS Locksmiths, we are currently experiencing a slight upturn in business partly due to a better economic 
outlook, especially in the housing sector. 
Further efficiencies have been made along with an incentive scheme for staff to deliver profits in conjunction with 
turnover.  We have seen continued growth with our key accounts including our contract with a leading cruise line 
as they continue to expand their fleet from Southampton. 
CSS Locksmiths should benefit from working with our Fastvein  technology, since the installation of these 
systems requires the skills and services of experienced locksmiths to install the more profitable high security 
electro-mechanical locking systems.  
Outlook and Priorities 
This year we have noticed that the decline in underlying sales from our traditional day to day operations has not 
only halted but in the case of maintenance revenue we have seen steady growth.  In addition, we have seen certain 
niche market applications coming to fruition.  These indicators lead us to be optimistic for the year ahead and 
indeed this is supported by our results for the first quarter 2014. 
Having made savings and completed much of the development work, we are looking forward as mentioned 
previously, to a continued improvement in profits for the year ahead. 
We hope that our intellectual property developments will mean that Croma Security Systems will benefit from 
ongoing maintenance and licence fees so supporting the continued growth of revenue and margin. 
4 CROMA SECURITY SOLUTIONS GROUP PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 June 2013
13 November 2013
Overall, the Board continues to view the prospects of the Group for the current financial year with confidence.  
The original philosophy and reasons for the integration of the CSS Companies into the Group remain, albeit that 
earnings growth has not been delivered as quickly as the Board had anticipated. 
The Group is now positioned to capitalise on its investment in product and services while exploiting our financial 
stability.  We aim to grow organically and drive profitability with a view to increasing shareholder value. 
 
 
 
S J F Morley 
Chairman 
5