 4  CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
(Left) Joep van Beurden, CEO  
and Ron Mackintosh, Chairman 
WE CURRENTLY  
HAVE OVER 50% UNIT 
MARKET SHARE IN 
BLUETOOTH AND 
AROUND 60% OF ALL 
DESIGN WINS.
Ron Mackintosh, Chairman
DIRECTORS' REPORT -  
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE IN CONVERSATION CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007  5
During 2007, we welcomed both a new Chairman and a new  
Chief Executive to CSR. Ron Mackintosh (Chairman) and Joep 
van Beurden (CEO) came together to reflect on the last 12 months 
and to share their enthusiasm for the months and years ahead.
Ron Mackintosh (RM) Joep, I think you'll agree that this has been  
a solid 12 months for CSR. The financials show strong growth -  
revenue up by 20% with underlying diluted earnings per share  
up by 13% to $0.94. We delivered what we promised.
Joep van Beurden (JvB) It's an impressive performance, and it's 
matched by the strong long-term opportunities we have identified.  
I joined only a few weeks prior to the end of the year, but I knew 
CSR and had always admired the way the Company led its sector. 
However, I have to admit that I was surprised at the extent of that 
leadership and the strengths that lie behind it. 
RM I've been a non-executive director at CSR since 2004 and  
I've seen the business strengthen year-on-year. We currently have 
over 50% unit market share in Bluetooth and around 60% of all 
design wins. We work with many of the world's top names, not 
only in the cellular markets of handsets and headsets but also in  
non cellular sectors of music players, automotive, PC and gaming. 
Dell, LG, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, TomTom and many 
more utilise our technology to increase the consumer appeal  
of their products. Without CSR, many of the great technological 
strides in wireless communications that have been made in recent 
years simply wouldn't have happened.
JvB What really excites me is that we're just at the start. The world  
is going wireless - where there are wires there are opportunities 
for us. We're only at the very beginning of what is a revolution.  
CSR has clearly taken leadership and we have the ability and 
passion to maintain that position. We have a huge opportunity  
in front of us; to use our products, our proven expertise and our 
investment in emerging technologies in order to help our 
customers take the world wireless.
RM What have been your initial impressions of CSR?
JvB First, the quality, commitment and passion of our people.  
Our R&D teams are without equal. Time and time again, they raise 
the technological bar and extend our lead over the competition - 
not only in Bluetooth, where we continue to reduce cost and 
power consumption while adding, for example, GPS capability,  
but also in Wi-Fi, Ultra Wideband (UWB) and Near Field 
Communication (NFC). 6  CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
WE ALREADY SUPPLY  
THE TOP FIVE HANDSET 
MANUFACTURERS AND 
OUR SUCCESS IN THIS 
SPACE IS PULLING 
THROUGH SALES IN 
HEADSETS.
Joep van Beurden, CEO
Secondly, I've been very impressed by our world-class  
operations and delivery track record. We operate at the highest  
level when it comes to production quality, consistency and order 
fulfilment. Customers have huge respect for our technological 
lead, but they also know that they can trust us to deliver on  
time and on budget. We expect to deliver CSR's one billionth 
Bluetooth chipset in Spring 2008, and that speaks volumes  
for our sustained quality performance.
Most importantly, though, we have a phenomenal product 
roadmap that will be the engine for the long-term growth of  
the business.
RM CSR currently focuses on three elements to deliver that 
roadmap and drive that growth: Bluetooth in the cellular markets  
of phone handsets and headsets; Bluetooth beyond those 
markets, in non cellular markets such as MP3 players, automotive 
and gaming and beyond Bluetooth for example in Wi-Fi and GPS. 
Do you see that changing in the coming year?
JvB Not in any significant way. Handsets are extremely important  
to us. We already supply the top five handset manufacturers and 
our success in this space is pulling through sales in headsets. 
We're also seeing major volumes in MP3 players and gaming. 
Bluetooth is an important wireless connection technology,  
and we see significant additional opportunity in adjacent wireless 
technologies such as FM radio, Wi-Fi, GPS, UWB and NFC. 
These products will continue to account for the majority of our 
R&D investment. Deepening and widening the business will be  
the key theme for the coming months and years. We'll maintain 
and exploit our core strengths in Bluetooth adding exciting new 
capabilities such as GPS, Wi-Fi and UWB.
RM I'd like to put on record my thanks to three people who 
departed from CSR during 2007 . John Whybrow was an excellent 
Chairman and successfully oversaw an impressive period of 
growth for CSR following the IPO in 2004 and played an important 
part in supporting the transition to establishing CSR as a public 
company. John Scarisbrick made a substantial contribution to 
CSR, first as a non-executive director since 2004 and then as 
Chief Executive Officer, and Glenn Collinson a co-founder made 
an invaluable contribution to establishing CSR as a world leader. 
On behalf of the Board, I wish them well for the future. 
Revenue $'000 
2007 848,622
2006 704,695
2005
2004
486,531
253,146
DIRECTORS' REPORT -  
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE IN CONVERSATION continued CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007  7
JvB Chris Ladas, our Senior Vice President of Operations,  
was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2008. This 
underscores Chris' contribution to the Company and emphasises 
the importance we place on quality and operations. Chris has 
almost 40 years of semiconductor experience and he and his 
team have been responsible for our world-class manufacturing 
and testing operations since May 2000.
People are hugely important to CSR. It's thanks to the energy  
and expertise of our R&D experts, commercial organisation, 
support teams and managers that we can help our customers 
bring so much productivity, enjoyment and new experiences  
to consumers across the world.
RM It's something of a business clich , but people will always  
be our most important asset. From Cambridge to Tokyo, 
Bangalore to Shanghai we have over 1,000 people who worked 
tirelessly throughout the year to create the momentum that leaves 
us very well-positioned to continue to lead developments in 
wireless connections.
JvB I believe we're in one of the most exciting segments of the 
technology world. At CSR, there's a real hunger to make the most 
of our opportunities - and I very much look forward to playing my 
part in the next phases of the Company's long-term success.
RM With the market opportunities, the strengths in our people  
and our technology that we have discussed, the long term outlook 
for CSR looks encouraging. What is your view on the immediate 
future for 2008, particularly in view of what are evolving global 
economic issues?
JvB We enter 2008 with strong market share, a leading position  
in all segments and a pipeline of innovative new products such as 
MusiCore that are on-track and exciting in their potential.
We have previously acknowledged that there would be a loss of 
market share in one top tier phone OEM which would affect 2008. 
We have already taken steps to address this and expect to recover 
this share in 2009. In all our other segments, we are confident of 
broadly maintaining market share during this year. We have also 
made good progress at another top tier phone OEM who we have 
not previously supplied.
Underlying R&D Expenditure $'000 
2007 140,932
2006 107,252
2005
2004
59,425
27,583
All of this reinforces our confidence in our long-term outlook.
For the short-term, we are fully aware of the current economic 
climate and consumer sentiment. We are seeing a run-down  
in customer inventory levels, particularly in China, and customer 
caution on their own sales outlook. For these reasons, we believe 
the first half revenues for 2008 will be broadly flat against last year; 
but the visible pipeline of new product introductions leads us to 
expect modest year-on-year revenue growth in the second half  
of this year.
There is no doubt, however, that we face very considerable growth 
opportunities in the medium and longer term for our Bluetooth, 
Wi-Fi and GPS products. Our new product development pipeline 
is strong with exciting products that are reinforcing our reputation 
for innovation, our technical lead and our ability to deliver 
substantial added value to our customers.
For example, we have working GPS and Bluetooth silicon back 
from the foundry and we have introduced our MusiCore  MP3 
chip'. End-customers want their mobile handsets to be MP3 
players; but currently can only find phones with short playback 
times and mediocre audio quality. MusiCore gives consumers 
around 100 hours music playback on a typical mobile handset 
with audio quality comparable to leading edge MP3 players.  
It cuts the electronic bill of materials by about $2 for our customers.
We have also just taped out our BlueCore7 combination chip 
which combines Bluetooth, FM transmit, FM receive, Ultra Low 
Power Bluetooth and GPS RF on a single die.
Our plans for the longer term, specifically our ambition to grow our 
revenue to $2 billion by 2012 will be the product of an operational 
assessment currently being conducted and which will be reported 
on in the spring.
I joined CSR because the world is going wireless - where there are 
wires, there are opportunities for CSR. With our current product 
line-up, compelling product roadmap and strong design-in 
pipeline, I have every confidence that CSR will capitalise on the 
opportunities and make further substantial progress in the current 
financial year and beyond.