  Change
In terms of Board structure and Management team composition at 
Cyprotex there has been a considerable transformation. In June this 
year, Robert Morrisson Atwater resigned as Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) and was replaced by Dr Anthony D. Baxter. Dr Baxter is an 
experienced executive in the small/medium biotechnology and 
medicinal chemistry sector businesses having been CEO of deltaDOT, 
founding CEO of Argenta Discovery Ltd and CSO of Oxford Asymmetry 
International (now Evotec AG) in recent years. 
Dr Baxter, with his wealth of knowledge of providing customer focused, 
high quality service offerings to this market, is leading an overhaul of 
the Company's sales and marketing operation   to positive effect. 
In August 2008, Steve Harris joined the Board as Chairman. Mr Harris 
has considerable experience in Non-Executive roles, of both private 
and public companies, and is currently Chairman of Proteome 
Sciences plc and Aquapharm Biodiscovery Limited, and Non-executive 
Director of Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc and Phynova 
group plc. 
We have recently announced the recruitment of a new Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO), John Dootson, FCA. Mr Dootson has assisted Cyprotex 
for several years in a management consultative role that included all 
aspects of finance and reporting. 
During the year, Dr Martial Lacroix and Mr Minhaz Manji resigned their 
positions as Non-Executive Directors. Nikolas Sofronis who stepped 
down as Chairman in August left the Board in December, when 
Mr Russell Gibbs also resigned as CFO. On 25 February 2009, Mr David 
Evans resigned as a Non-Executive Director. We are very grateful to 
each of them for their efforts in managing Cyprotex over the past 
few years, stabilising the business and affording a platform for future 
growth. We wish them all well in their future endeavours.
Mr Mark Warburton, Legal Counsel and Company Secretary, also 
took responsibility for all Sales and Marketing activities during 2008 
and effectively steered the business during the period of the Board 
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report
Steve Harris
Non Executive Chairman
Dr Anthony D Baxter
Chief Executive Officer
2008 was a year of significant change, 
challenge and ultimately success for 
Cyprotex.
17 March 2009
Stock code: CRX 12 Strategic Partners For Pharmacokinetic Technology
changes. We are grateful to Mr Warburton for his considerable efforts 
in managing the transformation of the business during the year.
Subsequent to the above changes, the Cyprotex Board is as follows:
Mr Steve Harris Non-Executive Chairman
Dr Anthony D. Baxter Chief Executive Officer
Mr John Dootson Chief Financial Officer
Mr Mark Warburton attends Board meetings in his capacity at 
Company Secretary.
We are actively looking to further strengthen the Board with sector 
experienced Non-Executive Directors and are seeking to recruit a high 
calibre Chief Commercial Officer.
We have, during 2008, completely restructured our sales team and 
have three new business development managers in the USA and two 
in Europe. We have also created an Executive Management Team that 
regularly meets to define the strategy for the business and our three 
key managers, Dr Helen Gill, Dr Clive Dilworth and Dr John Cartmell 
have all increased their operational responsibilities.
 Challenge
Cyprotex continues to offer the highest quality, premium pre-clinical 
ADMET services to our customers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology 
and agrochemical markets.  A recent customer satisfaction survey 
revealed that 95% of Cyprotex's customers were wholly satisfied with 
the services on offer, particularly commending the quality and quick 
turnaround of data. 
Our automated platform is a unique selling point for the business as it 
affords exceptional reproducibility of data, miniaturisation of processes 
and sizeable cost savings in operations. We must continue to invest 
in the platform such that our key differentiators are maintained and 
secured against competition. The Company's oft stated view that our 
services are highly operationally geared has been proven for the first 
time. With an increasing number of customers and larger contracts we 
have processed more samples and generated more data for roughly 
the same operational cost. The result has been not only a pleasingly 
increased turnover but a substantial increase in operating profitability.
The great challenge for Cyprotex is to maintain operational growth 
and further increase profit margins whilst controlling fixed costs. In 
order to achieve this, we must change the fundamental nature of our 
business development strategy and develop  strategic relationships' 
with customers rather than rely on  overflow' business as it has done 
in the past. Such  strategic relationships' afford larger contracts 
with fewer major customers, more visibility of earnings, operational 
and scheduling efficiencies in the laboratory and the ability to grow 
our technical service offerings to meet the scientific challenges our 
customers face in ADMET.
This year we signed and completed the first such strategic contract 
with a major European customer. We are pleased to report that this 
contract has been subsequently renewed. The volumes of samples 
processed and the range of assay types required was a challenge to 
our laboratory team but we have now proven that we can handle such 
large and complex contracts and deliver exactly what the customer 
expects. These  strategic relationships' mean that we are ever more 
entwined with the customer's decision making process in drug 
discovery and this will help us to secure long-term revenues.
The challenge in 2009 and beyond is to secure more of these  strategic 
relationships'. Our business development activities are aimed at 
further deepening our relationships with existing customers and 
approaching new customers who may benefit from a proposition 
which enables them to secure high quality ADMET data without 
expensive internal overhead.
The Chief Commercial Officer we are seeking to recruit will lead the 
drive to secure such strategic contracts.
 Success
Although, for reasons described above, the numbers of customers we 
service is not a primary indicator of success, it is pleasing to note that 
during 2008 we have increased our Master Service Agreements by 27 
and now have over 200 customers registered. We have added several 
significant major pharmaceutical companies who are working with 
Cyprotex for the first time. Two of these new relationships have yielded 
significant revenue.
13 Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008  Financial Highlights
Notwithstanding the significant management changes that took 
place during the year, the Company has recorded a very progressive 
financial performance.
 Revenue for the period increased by 43% to  5.18 million
 Gross profits rose by 49% to  4.48 million from  3.00 million in 2007
  Operating profit was positive for the first time in the Company's 
history at  567,000 against a loss of  496,000 in 2007
  Successful fully subscribed Placing and Open offer raised 
 1.0 million ( 0.97 million net of costs)
 Earnings per share of 0.36 pence (2007: loss per share of 0.35 pence)
 Notwithstanding continuing investment, the year end cash position 
improved signifi cantly to  1.58 million from the low point recorded at 
the half year to 30 June 2008 of  0.28 million
  New Product and Facilities Development
During the year, the Company undertook a full review of the products 
and services it offers with several of its largest customers. As a result 
of that feedback, we have invested in Research and Development 
programmes and in capital investments to improve both our range of 
assays and our equipment base. Such investment has been moribund 
in recent years. The following represents some of the new assays and 
facilities that have been implemented in 2008/early 2009.
  Two new laboratories (720 sq ft in total) have been built and fi tted 
out at our Beech Lane facilities at a total cost of  125,000.  These 
new facilities provide room for a potential further 15 staff and were 
offi cially opened in February 2009 by Sir Nicholas Winterton MP DL.
  Early in 2009, a new AB Sciex QTRAP
 
 mass spectrometer was 
installed at a cost of  250,000. This instrument offers up to 10,000 
times greater sensitivity in detection of samples.
  In April 2008, we launched a new product line, Cloe
 
 Select, which 
enables the Company to offer more bespoke, customised assays for 
our clients. Revenues from this service have steadily risen during 
the year.
  A new product catalogue was launched in April 2008.
  We have enhanced our range of drug-drug interaction screens. 
These include introducing our Cloe
 
 Select P-gp inhibition 
assay and extending the number of isoforms in our panel of CYP 
inhibition screens.
These new facilities and assays have been well received by our 
customers and are already generating new revenue for the business.
We are currently working on development programmes to more 
fully commercially exploit our software services. We expect to 
launch an innovative and novel pay-per-use service through a new 
web-based portal called Cloe
 
 Gateway. Further investments are 
planned during 2009.
 Communication
We have improved our communications with shareholders and 
as promised have held quarterly investor meetings and detailed 
presentations at Annual General Meetings. This regular updating of 
investors will continue in 2009.
 Summary and Outlook
2008 was something of a watershed year for Cyprotex. A new 
management team and Board has been created and the Company 
has proved its business model resulting in increased turnover and 
two successive half yearly operating profit figures. We have engaged 
with our customer base at a new commercial level and have delivered 
the first  strategic' contract successfully. With new belief in a cash 
generative business, we can now also consider approaches to grow the 
business by acquisition as well as organically.
We look forward to 2009 with confidence, despite the current 
economic climate, and we would like to thank our staff for their 
excellent work in delivering results on time, our customers for their 
support and our investors for their encouragement and patience.
Chairman's and Chief Executive Officer's Report continued
Stock code: CRX 14