 CYPROTEX PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
14
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER'S REPORT
Fruition of near-term strategic objectives bodes well for future 
growth
2011 was a year of substantial growth in both revenues and offerings 
for Cyprotex. Our entry into the in vitro toxicology market has 
proven to be very successful. In 18 months, our toxicology revenues 
have risen from less than 6% to over 23% of our total revenues. Our 
2010 acquisition of Apredica, which gave us a US operational 
platform, has proven timely as drug discovery investment in Europe 
has fallen and demand has shifted towards US-based organisations. 
As a result, the percentage of revenues Cyprotex receives from the 
US grew from 24% in 2009 to 44% in 2011. The strong growth of our 
toxicology and US business has necessitated a near doubling of our 
laboratory capacity in Watertown, Massachusetts, which was 
completed in January 2012.
We believe Cyprotex has now repositioned itself as a scientific 
thought leader in the ADME  Tox' field. Cyprotex has demonstrated 
that we are able to rapidly commercialise cutting edge technologies 
that answer the most pressing needs of the pharmaceutical, 
agrichemical and cosmetic industries. These technologies are aimed 
at significantly improving the odds of developing safer, more 
efficacious drugs and other commercial chemicals faster and with 
considerations of specific needs to special populations. In 2010, we 
expanded into the nascent in vitro toxicology market. In 2011, we 
launched a novel genomic ADME (gADME
TM
) service, opening a 
totally new market of interpreting genetic variation in drug 
metabolism. We also continue to develop new and innovative assays 
to match our customer's needs.
Our continued investment in the business during a period when the 
market has been weak and many of our competitors have been 
suffering has been a crucial strategic move. European and North 
American ADME Tox companies have been under increasing 
competition from Asia for the most common assays. Cyprotex's 
scientific innovation has allowed us to move into new markets where 
Asian competition is weak or non-existent, and where growth 
prospects are better. In doing so, this has provided a halo effect for 
our existing high-throughput ADME assays, enabling us to grow this 
business as well by selling these services to clients won on the basis of 
our newer, more scientifically advanced offerings.
Operational Performance
 Increasing diversification of customer base gives resilience to 
revenues
 Proprietary test offerings play well with pharmaceutical 
customers where pressures on R&D costs favour fail early/fail 
cheaply  approaches
Market conditions have been gradually improving as the US works its 
way out of the current recession. While conditions are not as 
favourable as they were prior to the recession, we have begun to see 
signs of recovery.
We have strived to increase and diversify our customer base, shifting 
the business away from being dominated by a handful of overly 
large customers. Our current revenue exposure from any single 
customer is now down to 13%, versus 16% in 2010, 22% in 2009, and 
34% in 2008. We have also expanded into new markets such as 
agrochemicals, cosmetics and supporting academic and charitable 
organisations. We believe this diversification has enabled Cyprotex to 
weather the economic downturn better than some of our 
competitors.
OUR NEW TECHNOLOGIES DEVELOPED DURING 2010 AND 2011  
HAVE BEEN INSTRUMENTAL IN ATTRACTING NEW CLIENTS TO  
OUR BUSINESS. 15
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
WORKING WITH
SYGNATURE
In 2009, Cyprotex embarked on a strategic alliance with Sygnature 
Discovery to offer integrated drug discovery services to clients. This 
partnership combines the medicinal chemistry and biology expertise 
of Sygnature with the ADME-tox expertise of Cyprotex. This combined 
approach has been essential for smaller companies and for many 
start-up companies where internal facilities are limited. It leads to an 
improved in-depth knowledge of all aspects of the drug discovery 
programme and therefore is advantageous to the ongoing research 
and progress of the project. Both Cyprotex and Sygnature are 
considered to be centres of excellence in their field and are 
committed to offering a premium service for their clients   many of 
whom have benefited from this integrated approach. The success of 
the partnership between Cyprotex and Sygnature has led to an 
extension of the agreement for a further two years.
Read more online @ www.cyprotex.com CYPROTEX PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
16
We are now experiencing a sea change in the drug discovery market. 
Larger pharmaceutical companies are cutting back sharply on 
in-house R&D. In some cases this is leading to wholesale site and 
programme closures. At the beginning of 2011, our second largest 
customer at the time closed three sites which caused a setback in our 
revenues. However, our strong growth rate has enabled us to fill the 
gap left by these closures in the first half of the year and by year-end, 
we were in-line with the market's expectations for total annual 
revenues.
Whilst the changes taking place in the pharmaceutical industry have 
some highly visible negative effects, it also produces positive 
opportunities for Cyprotex. R&D work that previously would have 
been performed in-house is now being increasingly outsourced, as 
pharmaceutical companies have become reluctant to invest in R&D 
infrastructure. The trend towards outsourcing is both direct, through 
outsourcing of internal R&D programmes to Contract Research 
Organisations such as Cyprotex, and indirect, as drug discovery is 
increasingly shifting to smaller companies who are more likely to 
outsource than larger companies are.
As pressure on R&D costs mounts, pharmaceutical companies are 
increasingly turning to outsourcing as a solution and this increases 
the value of Cyprotex's services, by reducing cost and risk. Similarly, 
the increasing complexity of preclinical research entail equally 
sophisticated assays that require specialist equipment which is 
infrequently needed, or are proprietary, such as Cyprotex's gADME  
and CellCiphr  assays. Such proprietary preclinical tests are gaining 
importance as the industry strives to limit the impact of drug 
discovery attrition with fail early/fail cheaply  approaches gaining 
traction. Such newer complex assays are helping us gain business 
from customers that have historically been committed to in-sourcing. 
We believe that our scientific expertise and understanding of what 
our clients need, is helping us to gain traction in all areas of our 
business.
Financial Performance
Despite the reduction in revenue from our then second largest 
customer early into 2011, our underlying strong growth rate has 
enabled Cyprotex to increase revenues by 33.6% to  7.91 million, 
and to record a fourth consecutive year of profitability, positive cash 
flows from operations and with operating profits of  0.67 million 
(2010:  0.22 million).
The balance sheet remains strong with net assets up  1.1 million at 
 6.8 million (2010:  5.7 million) with the increase principally due to 
profitable trading.
The Group has invested over  0.58 million in R&D (2010: 0.56 million) 
including  172,500 in further developing CellCiphr
TM
 technologies 
specifically targeted at improved automation of the predictive 
engine which has substantially reduced turnaround times allowing 
the Group to service much larger volumes. Revenues associated with 
CellCiphr
TM
 technologies have contributed over  1.0 million to 
turnover which compares very favourably with last year at 
 0.1 million.
The Group continues to invest in equipment spending  0.31 million 
in the year (2010:  0.64 million) including adding a Xevo mass 
spectrometer to its analytical capabilities. Further investments are 
planned in 2012.
When non-cash items and acquisition costs are deducted, the 
underlying EBITDA recorded for the year was  1.31 million, up from 
 0.77 million in the previous year. This is a key indicator of the 
Group's ability to generate cash from operations. The Group's cash 
position at 31 December 2011 was  1.13 million (2010:  1.04 million).
Following an expansion of our sales team to manage the increased 
demand we are seeing, our headcount now stands at 70.
Outlook and Summary
After two years of investment to enhance and expand our services 
and geographic footprint, our objective for 2012 is to leverage the 
competitive advantages we have created. Cyprotex has now 
established itself as a thought leader in the ADME Tox field, with a 
strong position in the fast-growing in vitro toxicology market with 
laboratories in both the UK and US, both of which have had major 
expansions to accommodate increased demand.
In late 2011 we completed a recruiting effort to bring our sales team 
up to full strength. We have created a robust platform to focus our 
strategic emphasis towards revenue and profit growth whilst 
continuing to develop new and innovative offerings for our rapidly 
expanding customer base. With our enhanced strategic advantages 
and the continued easing of the recession, we believe that Cyprotex 
is poised for further strong growth.
Steve Harris
Non-Executive Chairman 
21 March 2012
Dr Anthony D Baxter
Chief Executive Officer
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER'S REPORT