 AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Page 3
O
ver the last twelve months, we have delivered on key
objectives: completed the successful sale of Foodservice
for a good price; paid a special dividend of  55.6 million
and prepared for the substantial cash return of  140 million to
shareholders; put in place the long-term financial structure for the
Group Pension Scheme; developed a new name and corporate
identity for the Group; appointed a new chairman; and set a clear
growth strategy for the focused consumer business.
This all followed the decision of the board to sell the Foodservice
operations. These operations had been carefully built up over 6
years, and now needed to develop further through international
reach and scale. When the likelihood of ourselves driving change
in the sector receded, we concluded that shareholders' interests
were best served through their sale. This was achieved at a good
price of  265 million on an attractive exit multiple, particularly as
financial markets tightened.
During 2007 the continuing business performed satisfactorily with
Rangemaster again achieving record sales and profits. Turnover
of the continuing business rose by 4.7% to  291.8 million (5.7%
at constant exchange rates). EBITDA in the year was  39.8 million
(2006 :  36.8 million). Operating profit excluding net pension
credits was  25.0 million, up from  24.3 million in the prior year.
Profit before interest and tax including net pension credit was
 31.0 million (2006:  28.3 million). The interest charge of  3.4
million reflects the marked changes in the cash position in the
year with the payment of the special dividend in June increasing
debt levels at the half year to  79.7 million before the cash receipts
from the sale of Foodservice, completed in December 2007, left
us with net cash of  169.1 million at the year end. Earnings per
share from continuing operations were 19.4 pence per share
compared with 16.5 pence per share in 2006. The Foodservice
business made an operating profit after allocated corporate costs
of  14.6 million in 2007 and the reported book profit on their sale,
taking into account intangibles, was  30.7 million.
Trading performance - continuing operations
Aga, Rayburn and Stanley saw leads and home surveys remain at
good levels throughout the year. Volumes were ahead at the half
year but did slow at the end of 2007 as consumer markets
tightened leaving volumes in the year marginally down at 19,600.
Within the overall numbers the trend continued towards our
electric models, most notably the new programmable ranges and,
for Rayburn and Stanley towards carbon-neutral wood burning
lines. The year also saw our cookware operations from Aga and
Divertimenti continue to progress well, accounting for  9.5 million
in revenues.
Rangemaster had an excellent year, with volumes over 7% ahead
at 76,000 units. The rapid internationalisation of the business
continued, accounting for over 21% of sales with the Irish and, in
particular, the French markets growing strongly. The sustained
growth achieved together with the pipeline of new cooking
products made for the Rangemaster, Falcon, La Cornue and
Heartland brands add up to a considerable success story.
In the USA the consumer markets were difficult. Marvel, after a
strong 2006, saw volumes fall during the year. The development
of a new generation of Marvel products means that Marvel is well
placed within the premium appliance sector, particularly in the
outdoor market which has the potential to deliver sustained
growth. Aga Heartland is optimistic that the growing recognition
of our cooking products in North America will enable sales growth
to be achieved after a tough 2007.
Return of cash to shareholders
In 2001, following the sale of the Group's Pipe Systems business,
 335 million was returned to shareholders. Following the disposal
of our Foodservice operations, we are now proposing a cash
return of  140 million by way of a  B' /  C' share scheme, which is
intended to give holders, where eligible under their prevailing
tax regime (such as in the UK), the flexibility so far as possible to
receive the cash either as income or capital or as a combination of
the two. The total value of the return will equate to approximately
121 pence per existing ordinary share. The board intends that the
market price of the Company's ordinary shares will, subject to
market movements, be approximately equal before and after the
return and, accordingly, the board is also proposing a share
consolidation in conjunction with the return of cash. After the
return and the accompanying share consolidation, the balance
sheet will remain in a strong position. The proposed return of cash
is subject to approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General
Meeting to be held on 9th May 2008. In addition, we are paying a
final ordinary dividend of 7.65 pence per share based on the
number of shares in issue prior to the consolidation, which makes
Chairman' s 
introduction Page 4
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
the total 2007 dividend 11.5 pence. The proposed final ordinary
and special payments, totalling approximately 129 pence per
existing share, will be made in May 2008. With respect to future
dividends, we expect to keep our long-term policy to have a fully
taxed dividend cover of around 2.5 times.
Including the proposed return of cash, the Group will have returned
 614 million (including  74 million in ordinary dividends) since the
sale of Pipe Systems, and this reflects our determined efforts over
a long period to optimise returns for shareholders.
Pension scheme arrangements
We are pleased that we have agreed a framework with the Pension
Fund Trustee that establishes a funding framework for the Scheme
up to 2020. I feel that this agreement is in the interests of members
old and current, and is also in the interests of the Company and
shareholders. The Pension Scheme is covered in more depth in the
chief executive's review.
Board and management structure
This is my last statement as chairman as I retire at the AGM from
the board which I first joined in 2000. The Group is at an exciting
point at which much hard work is set to pay off. I feel particularly
pleased that over the years we have developed and helped to
create a strong commercial structure for all our continuing
businesses. We are delighted that John Coleman has joined the
board and will become non-executive chairman after the AGM.
John was chief executive of House of Fraser and is a non-executive
director of Travis Perkins plc. His long corporate experience, work
with premium brands and in retail will assist in the drive to achieve
the Group's performance targets. There have been other changes
to the management structure. We have established an executive
committee including the managing directors of Aga and
Rangemaster, the Group manufacturing director and the new head
of marketing. We are grateful to our former colleagues who joined
the Ali Group and in particular to Stephen Rennie, who made a
great contribution as chief operating officer for over six years.
Growth strategy
We have now chosen to focus on our exciting range of consumer
brands led by Aga and Rangemaster - the brand names out of
which we propose to create the name of the Group from the AGM
in May 2008. Led by Aga and Rangemaster our brands include
Divertimenti, Falcon, Fired Earth, Grange, Heartland, La Cornue,
Leisure, Marvel, Northland, Rayburn, Stanley and Waterford.
We propose to grow the business through five measurable
strands: Increasing sales of Aga and Rangemaster; improving
returns of Fired Earth and Grange; growing overseas sales;
investing in marketing and customer relationship management
(CRM); and reducing costs. This is with the aim of increasing the
return on sales to nearer 12% excluding pension credits in the
longer term.
Increasing sales of Aga and Rangemaster: In recent years significant
investment has been made resulting in products that are more
innovative, flexible and efficient than ever before. We are aiming
for sales of cast iron cookers to exceed the current level of 19,600
and sales of range cookers to exceed the current level of 76,000.
Improving returns of Fired Earth and Grange: These two brands
accounted for a sixth of revenue in 2007 but were not profitable.
We have implemented a turnaround programme and are aiming
for a return on sales of at least 5% in three years.
Growing overseas sales: 37% of revenue classified by geographic
destination is outside the UK with particular strength in France,
Ireland and the US. We aim to increase this to nearer 50% in the
longer term through increased displays, expanded sales teams and
improved marketing.
Investing in marketing and CRM: In 2008 we will increase marketing
spend, directing resources to where they will have most effect. In
addition, we will continue to develop and use our database of
800,000 to build strong and profitable relationships with our
customers to increase customer lifetime value. Richard Eagleton,
our new Group marketing director, will drive these projects.
Reducing costs: We are exploring a number of cost improvement
programmes including specification changes, sourcing more
efficiently and plant efficiency upgrades. We believe there will be
a benefit of  3 million per annum starting in 2008. This will help
absorb the  2 million overhead costs previously absorbed by
Foodservice.
We believe that we have the products and routes to market to
achieve sustained growth. We have committed substantial
resources to product development and have the capacity to
support our plans in both manufacturing and sourcing terms.
Current trading and outlook
Orders at the start of 2008 have been encouraging for our major
businesses, although some of the economies in which we operate
are clearly slowing. This year the price increase for Aga was on 1st
March and this helped stimulate demand. Rangemaster has seen
growth continuing and order intake is up 5% so far this year.
Encouragingly, Fired Earth's orders are up nearly 10%. In the US,
Marvel has seen orders fall so far this year by around 20% while
Aga Heartland is ahead. The Group is adjusting to its new scale
and focus and expects its cost cutting initiatives to assist in the
current drive to achieve a higher return on sales.
The Love Aga  and the Rangemaster Essential Ingredient 
themes are already becoming powerful campaigns for us, and are
indicative of our optimistic mood in spite of the very uncertain
economic backcloth against which we are working. We have
delivered on the key objectives set for 2007 and, as the new Aga
Rangemaster Group, we can expect further progress in 2008.
Vic Cocker CBE, 
Chairman. 
14th March 2008
Chairman's introduction