 3
Chairman's Statement
Chairman's Statement
The product introductions and strengthened business processes enabled us to improve 
margins and provide a continuing optimism that the groundwork is in place 
to restore profits to previous levels.
Overview
We set out to make 2011 a year of clear cut progress - 
something we achieved even though consumer caution 
increased towards the end of the year. The product 
introductions and strengthened business processes enabled us 
to improve margins and provide a continuing optimism that the 
groundwork is in place to restore profits to levels achieved 
prior to the economic downturn. Particular features of the 
year were:
  The rise in operating profits before amortisation to  8.0 
million (2010:  6.9 million) and  6.1 million (2010:  5.1 
million) after amortisation. These increases were achieved 
even though revenue decreased to  250.9 million from 
 259.1 million in 2010.
  We finished the year with a strong net cash position of  31.3 
million (2010:  34.6 million) and our working capital ratios 
remain very good.
  The strong product introduction programmes led by the 
product redefining AGA Total Control have opened up new 
opportunities in the UK and, importantly, in Europe and in 
North America where our long-term brand building can 
now pay off. We can also see that we have the product mix 
to make greater impressions in other international markets.
  We continue to drive efficiencies and are examining the 
further development possibilities arising from investments 
already made in products and systems - seen in AGA Total 
Control being a factory assembled product which simplifies 
distribution, installation and service considerations. All our 
modern electric products will be factory built by the end of 
2012.
Our pension schemes remain a major responsibility. The 
accounts show that the schemes had a net surplus at 31st 
December 2011 of  5.3 million on an accounting basis, 
compared with a surplus of  7.1 million a year ago. In 2011, the 
net pension credit totalled  3.1 million. With the significant 
fall in gilt yields during the year, the actuarial valuation of the 
Group's main pension scheme as at 31st December 2011 which 
is under way will show an increase in the deficit on an actuarial 
basis over the deficit of  62 million that was indicated as at 31st 
December 2010 by the actuarial update report prepared on a 
rolled forward basis at that date. We are in discussions with the 
trustee of this scheme to ensure that the reasonable funding 
requirements of the scheme are met while also ensuring the 
strategy of the Group continues to be focused on our long-
term development objectives.
The slow end to 2011 made us cautious about the start to 
2012 but the benefits of the work of recent years is showing 
through and we retain our belief that 2012 will bring renewed 
momentum. The combination of product mix, geographical 
reach and operational gearing can rapidly work to our 
advantage when confidence levels start to recover.
Strategic progress
Given the market in which we operate and the constraint of the 
pension scheme, our plans in recent years have been directed 
to efficiency gains and incremental expansionary steps. Our 
business model is based on being a major international force 
in range cookers giving us access into wider kitchen markets. 
We have tightly drawn key performance indicators for our key 
brands against which we assess progress made.
AGA Total Control launch at the Saatchi Gallery. John Coleman with Jenny Halpern of Halpern PR. Rachel Johnson,writer; Jasmine Guinness, 
model; Mary Berry, cookery writer and Jane Williams, lady rider turned on the different product features. 4
Chairman's Statement
Cooking with an AGA is fabulous and allows for little mistakes. It is so easy to prepare dinner for 10 and still be around for your guests  
G rard Depardieu.
Our cast iron cookers are our most operationally geared lines. 
We have sought to broaden their appeal through providing 
additional flexibility in use, seen in the successful launch in 
May 2011 of the AGA Total Control - on when you need it 
off when you don't . Orders are now 1,100. For Rayburn and 
Stanley, development has meant making our all in one heating-
cooker products part of the drive for whole house energy 
management solutions linking renewables and fossil fuels.
In 2011 overall cast iron cooker volumes fell 6% to 11,000 with 
the decline of Stanley in Ireland continuing - but with AGA 
volumes flat. Given the products we have and will continue to 
introduce we retain our objective of restoring cast iron cooker 
sales to 19,600 - the level of 2007 - prior to the fall in the 
Irish, and then our UK markets. We know that with the lower 
cost structures now in place that material profit improvement 
should follow.
At Rangemaster we continued with our established, successful 
development plans. While volumes were around 62,000 units 
- below the 2007 benchmark of 76,000 units - we once again 
succeeded through the mix of brands and higher specification 
models to edge up average selling prices. We still do not 
expect material volume changes in the UK, given the housing 
and consumer markets, which makes international sales - 
contributing over a quarter of Rangemaster sales volumes - so 
significant. In 2011 we moved ahead slightly with good growth 
coming from France. The key challenge is to add materially to 
export sales markets with higher real growth rates and for 
which we now have products that will be more readily accepted.
Profit growth can also come from the improving performance 
in operations that have performed weakly in recent years. 
In 2011 we entered into an agreement with the newly 
strengthened Fired Earth management under which it has 
an equity interest in the operation. In 2011 Fired Earth saw 
losses fall significantly but they remained over  1 million. For 
Grange there has been a concerted effort to make the product 
line up more contemporary and to make purchasing Grange 
products simpler and more exciting - hence our investment 
in the technology underpinning the store design software for 
My Grange .
In 2012 a priority is to make material progress in rebalancing 
the business so that at least half the revenue is generated from 
outside the UK compared with 37% in 2011.
2012: Manufacturing and design in Britain
2012 will be a high profile year for Britain and British made 
products. The Group's history begins with its cooking pots 
triggering the Industrial Revolution in 1709 through the smelting 
of iron ore with coke. The Group has made major contributions 
to British manufacturing. It received, for example, two medals 
at the 1851 Great Exhibition. This makes 2012 with its focus on 
Britain and its heritage particularly interesting as we still make 
innovative products fulfilling the same functions today.  5
Chairman's Statement
Chairman's Statement
Andrea Selby winner of the Rangemaster Kitchen Catwalk competition enjoyed a visit by celebrity chef Lesley Waters who prepared a 
meal on a Rangemaster Toledo 110.
We expect to play a prominent role in highlighting Britain as 
an innovator and manufacturer and to take opportunities to 
showcase our brands. We were delighted to be named Midland 
Manufacturer of the year for 2011. We were founder members 
of IDEA Birmingham, which will hold an expo this summer on 
innovation and design in the Midlands.
People
I have, as Chairman been able to visit most parts of the Group 
and am always impressed by the enthusiasm of our employees 
for the brands and the determination to make the most of 
the great opportunities our brands can create.  My visit to 
Greenville, Michigan was particularly pleasing as I was able to 
see first hand how the investment the Group has made to bring 
our North American operations together is proving effective. 
Current Trading 
We went into 2012 expecting markets to remain tough and we 
have already undertaken further steps to improve efficiencies 
and lower the cost base, building on programmes of the last four 
years. We now have a single set of focused business processes 
across the UK manufacturing units. We are also, as more of our 
cast iron cookers are fully assembled in the factory, working 
with a simpler sales process and a single warehouse for all our 
cookers in Leamington Spa.
We are pleased that our January sales programmes went well 
and consumer leads are up. We have well defined target markets 
in the UK and overseas and expect this targeting to bring sales 
growth this year. For Rangemaster at the biannual Kitchen 
Bedroom Bathroom trade show at the NEC, our dealers felt 
our product mix based on market leading ranges with a wider 
appliance and sink offering provides a strong platform for the 
year. We are encouraged that AGA Marvel in North America 
should see appreciable progress and trend lines at Fired Earth 
are better.
Against this background we retain our confidence in our 
business model and a belief it will generate the expected 
returns given the tremendous affection and respect that our 
brands attract. Our determination through the downturn to 
build product and distribution to make us the beneficiary in 
a recovery could pay off this year - a year we approach with 
confidence.
John Coleman
Chairman 
9th March 2012