 D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT
The year to 30 June 2002 marks a significant turning point in the progress of Dataflex. Following a poor first six
months, we took the decision in December to close offices and reduce overheads. These actions, together with a
marked increase in revenues, up from  4.9 million to  8 million resulted in the virtual elimination of losses in the
second half. T otal overheads for the second six months were halved and as a result, the loss before tax in this period,
compared with the first half of the financial year, was substantially reduced from  6.9 million to  58,000. 
The full benefit of these actions is not reflected in the figures for the full year to June 2002. During the period under
review, sales were  12.9 million (2001:  44.7 million) and the loss before tax was  7 million (2001: pre-tax profit
of  3.18 million). However, the Company is debt free and has cash in hand of  15.6 million.
The substantial growth in sales in the second half has been driven by several initiatives aimed at
increasing the potential of our call routing business and opening up new markets. We have
developed a digital cordless telephone with an integrated call router, which is beginning to sell well
in Europe and for which we have trial orders in the USA. Also in the USA, potential customers are
conducting marketing trials for a version of Smart Gem, our single line call router, which allows users
to make calls to and from regular telephones over the Internet at very attractive prices using
technology currently only available from personal computers. 
We have made significant progress with the development and marketing of our new Broadband Voice 
products. Early commercial success has already been achieved with two customers. We have delivered our first
volume shipments of these products, which are now in active commercial service. The Board remains confident
about the future potential of this product range despite the current state of the telecom market.
Overall, we believe the Company is well positioned for future profitable growth, despite market conditions that may
well remain depressed in the present year. 
The year under review has been a very difficult one for our employees who have put enormous effort into
supporting your board's initiative to reposition the Company within the telecoms sector. We are indebted to every
one of them.
The Board feels it would be inappropriate to recommend the payment of a final dividend this year but does propose
resumption as soon as conditions permit.
Operations Review
Call routers
As we have previously reported, carrier pre-selection, combined with the poor telecom equipment market has
adversely impacted the revenues for conventional call routers throughout Western Europe. Group turnover from
this product has fallen significantly over the past year. In addition, despite considerable marketing activity, call router
sales in a number of emerging markets in Central/Eastern Europe and South America have been
below expectations. 
We are however currently conducting an extensive marketing trial in the USA for SmartGem, the
single line call router. The service being trialled enables consumers to make VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol) calls to and from regular telephones at the very attractive prices currently only
available for callers from a PC. What is particularly innovative is that the consumer, by using
our call router (the VoIP dialler) does not need to use a PC or apply a complex dialling
process to initiate a VoIP call. As a result, new and much lower long distance tariffs can
be offered on the basis of the IP network only. If these marketing trials are successful,
we look forward to follow on orders for call routers. 
2 D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT
T elephony Experts Inc.
The acquisition of T elephony Experts Inc. during the previous year had been expected to build up a new product
line, which consisted of the development and supply of calling card systems to alternative telecom operators.
However the continuing losses and weak revenue forecasts provided by Dataflex, Inc. during December 2001, left
the board in no doubt that it could not justify any further investment in this business area. The division ceased
operations on 21 December 2001.
Call routing DECT cordless telephones
Dataflex has developed a new digital cordless telephone based on DECT (Digital Enhanced Cordless
T elecommunications) technology, which incorporates a variant of the Dataflex call router.
A large part of the Group's revenues in the period from January to June 2002 was based on this
product and it also accounts for a large percentage of the order book at the end of June. In addition
to existing customers, the product is being evaluated and tested by several alternative service
providers in the UK. We have also secured our first order from a US operator for a Call Routing
WDCT cordless phone (WDCT is the US derivative of DECT technology). 
Call routing DECT telephones reduce significantly both the cost of customer acquisition and the
level of customer churn. We believe that these two major benefits make this technology a very
promising part of the future of Dataflex.
Broadband access
Deployment of broadband for high speed Internet access across the UK and continental Europe is gaining
momentum. This is primarily being achieved by the incumbent telecom operators (also known as PTT s, such as BT
in the UK), both through their own retail channels and wholesale to the Internet Service Providers. 
One of the key ways for an Alternative T elecom Operator (ATO) to enhance its offer is to
provide voice services in addition to high-speed internet access. The latter remains a
very tight-margin business, but an ATO can significantly improve the value of data
only broadband by adding voice revenues. ATOs are better placed to capitalise
on the benefits of Voice than Internet Service Providers, as they are traditionally
better equipped and have more experience of offering voice services to
businesses and end customers.
There are two ways for an ATO to provide voice over broadband to its customers; Local Loop
Unbundling and by means of wholesale voice over broadband. Whereas the technologies required for
Unbundling are developed and available, those needed for providing wholesale voice over broadband are now
expected to become available (initially for business applications) on a larger scale in the next 12 months. Every
European country is different, and in the UK for example, the recent directive from Oftel, the regulator, will give the
ATOs a realistic choice between Local Loop Unbundling and wholesale voice over broadband.
In either case, the Dataflex ViNE product range (Voice integration at Network Edge) deals seamlessly with both
modes of operation. As a result, we are able to provide better solutions for the customer regardless of technology
and gain optimal access to all aspects of the broadband market.
Our ViNE product development programme has made considerable progress over the past six months. We have
achieved commercial success with two major customers and technical tests continue with several other prospective
operators in Europe. We have shipped products in first volumes and they are in active commercial service.
Our product range is inter-operable with all the major Voice over DSL
gateways being deployed in Europe: Paradyne
(Jetstream), Tdsoft, Cirpack, Alcatel, Zhone and Lucent.
3 In addition, partnerships are being developed with the major system integrators who are supplying total solutions to
the European telecom operators. The product features cover the relevant technologies in use at the customer
premises, including Basic and Primary rate ISDN and also DECT . Combined with Dataflex's outsourced manufacturing
expertise and its strong position both in respect of price and features, we are confident that this product range can
achieve a prominent position in this emerging European market.
Outlook
In the short term, we expect to continue to generate sales from our call routers, in particular from the extensive
market trial in the USA, and also from our Call Routing DECT cordless telephones. 
Although medium term visibility remains low, our  5.6 million order book at the start of the new financial year
(compared with  5.4 million on 1 January 2002) gives us some confidence that we should be able to at least sustain
our current level of business in the next six to twelve months. We will maintain our overheads at or below  500,000
per month, whilst continuing to develop innovative access products for telecom operators worldwide.
We believe that the rollout of our Voice over Broadband products will start to contribute modestly during the next
12 months and become a significant part of the company's revenues in future years.
In the meantime, a debt free Group balance sheet with significant cash balances of  15.6 million will help Dataflex
to weather the current depressed telecoms market and ensure that it will be one of the surviving and successful
suppliers of equipment to telecom operators.
Dr. Jack Leonard Jacob van Houdt
Chairman Chief Executive
25 July 2002
London
D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT
4