 10 Group plc
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2013 saw the tide begin to turn in our markets. Now the product 
development programmes and the enhanced operational gearing 
will show their worth as revenues rise.
JOHN COLEMAN
Chairman
Overview
2013 saw the tide begin to turn in our markets. 
We now expect that the product development 
programmes and the enhanced operational 
gearing that we have implemented over the 
past year will show their worth as revenues 
increase. We have some outstanding brands 
relevant to contemporary lifestyles and it was 
exciting to see the first material signs of 
improvement with a  5.8 million increase in 
sales in the year to over  250 million. This  
was driven by second half growth of 4.4% 
compared to being flat in the first half. This 
brought a 26.2% increase in operating profits 
for the year to  8.2 million. The return on sales 
was 3.3% (2012: 2.7%) showing the gap still 
that remains to our peak of cycle target of 
10%. We maintained our strong balance sheet 
position with a cash balance of just under  6 
million at the year end.
Our markets
The sharp fall in UK house sales through 
2007/2008, and the lengthy trough that 
followed, had a major impact on us as 
appliance sales are positively correlated to 
house moves. Our markets have been running 
around 30% below their peaks. From the 
middle of 2013, a concerted effort by the 
Government and companies in the housing 
sector to stimulate demand has given rise to a 
much-improved market. On a rolling 12-month 
basis, monthly mortgage approvals rose by 
the end of 2013 to 61,000 from 51,000 at the 
start of the year. Approvals of over 70,000  
in November and December 2013 were the 
highest monthly levels since January 2008. 
The Bank of England's February 2014 Inflation 
Report suggests the trend will continue 
through this year. With nearly two thirds of our 
sales still linked to UK consumer spending on 
the home, the housing market is of central 
importance to us.
Trading performances
For AGA cookers a good autumn meant sales 
volumes were up 10% in the full year having 
been down 2% at the half year. There was also 
a sharp shift towards electric cooker models 
which represented 70% of sales in the year. 
The AGA Dual Control launched in June 2013 
has had an immediate impact and over half of 
sales volumes in the second half were of Total 
Control and Dual Control electric models. 
These products are factory-finished at our 
sites in Coalbrookdale and Telford in 
Shropshire. In contrast, markets remained 
difficult for the cooker/boiler brands. Rayburn 
and Stanley rely heavily on refurbishment 
projects. Overall cast iron cooker volumes fell 
to 10,000 (from 10,300 in 2012) and Stanley 
sales in Ireland are 30% of pre recession levels. 
The shift to wood burning stoves and boiler 
stoves has had a major impact on Stanley and
The tide is beginning to turn 11
 
Group plc
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
stove sales are strong. Wood burning products, for their 
economics and fuel independence, provide optimism for our 
heating lines.
Rangemaster had a slow start to the year and volumes  
were 4% lower at the half year. We were, however, able to 
stimulate the market with new products and volumes were 
just ahead at 60,500 units by the year end. Overall, revenues 
finished just ahead for the year. We rolled out 25 premium 
design centres with Dixons Retail plc, which led to AGA 
Rangemaster receiving their  White Goods Partner of the 
Year' award. Exports were ahead. For Rangemaster, we 
continued to achieve growth in France despite weak markets 
and we expect to see continental sales continue to grow with 
Germany becoming a target market.
In North America, where the housing recovery is quite well 
established, we were pleased that AGA Marvel volumes  
rose by more than 10%. With the new accounts we have won 
and the wider market penetration we have through quality 
dealers, we expect the trend lines to continue to be positive. 
In North America, where we have long held a modest 
position on the cooker side, we believe we have the product 
mix capable of making our products more of a mainstream 
option.
Fired Earth returned to profitability for the first time for some 
years with the pick up in revenues of over 5% combined with 
the benefits of direct sourcing, tight cost control and the 
success of our small store format developed for Greater 
London. Set against the improving market backcloth, we 
expect to deliver progress in a business that struggled to 
make its presence felt during the downturn. We will be 
considering this year a valorisation exercise for Fired Earth.
Grange remains in a testing position as revenues fell  
and losses continued which offset the benefit of the 
rationalisation programmes in Europe and most particularly 
in North America. We can, however, see already that the 
product mix with a more contemporary slant and the market 
differentiation provided by the online design and ordering 
package,  My Grange', are starting to improve the brand's 
fortunes. 
Our increased optimism is based upon the stronger markets, 
our enhanced product portfolio for the domestic market and 
the benefits of the commitment we have put into growth in 
international markets. We have recently obtained our first 
accreditation to sell a Rangemaster cooker in China. As 
range cookers are not a known category in China, this has 
been a protracted process. This product has an innovative 
new wok burner system that will have wider international 
market reach. We are excited about launching our products 
in China, with our partner Vatti and we expect more 
accreditations will be obtained in the near future. 
our task is to seize the opportunities 12 Group plc
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategy
Our task now is to ensure that we seize the opportunities of 
the improving markets, our available production capacity 
and exciting product innovations. For AGA cookers we can 
explain to the numerous long-time owners that the modern, 
more flexible models bring many benefits including reduced 
running costs compared to the older models. The new 
models are attracting a wider customer base and a younger 
audience to the superior quality of radiant heat cooking - 
with the walls of the oven at a constant temperature - as well 
as the classic design. We have other new products to 
introduce aimed particularly at urban audiences and this is 
reflected in the decision to open a shop in the City of London 
later this year.
For Rangemaster, it is for us, as range cooker experts, to 
reiterate the case for the range cooker over built-in options  
as providing a heart to the home still in an economic and 
space-efficient way. Most cabinetry producers and property 
developers prefer built-in and thus can deprive the consumer 
of a strong lifestyle option. With consumers expecting choice, 
the range cooking story should appeal equally strongly in 
both the UK and in our key European growth markets.
The premise from which we build is that the range cooker has 
a central role in modern life and that we have products with 
the functionality, look and ambience to suit a range of styles 
and price points. We continue to target some international 
markets where the range cooker is little known, like Germany 
and China, both of which have the scale which should 
materially change the business once this lifestyle message 
connects with consumers.
People
We were delighted last year to welcome Rebecca Worthington 
to the board as a non-executive director and she now chairs 
the audit and risk committee. She brings considerable financial, 
property and plc experience to the board. Paul Dermody has 
relinquished his chairmanship of the audit and risk committee 
and will stand down as a director at the AGM. His contribution 
over the last decade as a non-executive director has been 
tremendous in providing steady influence and consistent 
insight while the fortunes of the business fluctuated.
In June 2013 Mike Bufton, managing director of our UK appliance 
operations, died. He was an inspirational leader who had played 
a central role in the development of Rangemaster and latterly 
of AGA Rangemaster as an integrated operation in the UK. 
He was succeeded by Gary Green who is also the Group's 
manufacturing director. Gary has an in depth knowledge of 
manufacturing and has spearheaded the implementation of 
efficient manufacturing processes throughout the Group.
I should like to thank all our employees for their continuing 
contribution. We are now embarking on a new phase in the story 
of the Group where the emphasis will switch more to commercial 
and selling skills. I have confidence that we are developing a 
team able to deliver on the operational gearing available.
Dividend
As previously announced, the board proposes not to make 
dividend payments without pension scheme trustee 
agreement in accordance with the arrangements made on 
completion of the 2011 triennial actuarial valuation of the 
Group's main pension scheme. Agreement was not sought 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 13
 
Group plc
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
this year and the board is not proposing to make a 
dividend payment in respect of 2013. The next triennial 
actuarial valuation as at 31st December 2014 will be 
prepared during 2015 and dividend policy will again be 
a matter to be discussed. 
Current trading
Against a backcloth of increased activity in the UK 
housing market, we expect an improved trading 
performance in 2014. Currently order intake is over 6% 
ahead of prior year. This is higher than the growth rates 
achieved overall in the second half of 2013. We have 
indicated price increases for both AGA and Rangemaster 
of over 3% at the end of March and expect order intake to 
be well up at that point. The estimate book for Fired Earth 
was strong at the end of 2013 and that has been translated 
into sales growth in the first two months which were up by 
more than 10%. In North America the improvement in the 
housing market is well established and orders are up 
again. Our cookware brands selling online have all had 
excellent starts to the year. We recognise that a recovery 
is not fully embedded. However, with the potential for 
growth from our work to move into international markets 
and with the expansion of the addressable market in the 
UK for range cookers, the outlook for the Group does look 
better than it has been for some years.
J Coleman
Chairman
7th March 2014
AGA
AGA has strong links with rural communities and our 
sponsorship of Point-to-Point racing has received great 
support. The championship covers the country with qualifiers. 
The grand final was held at Stratford racecourse and after a 
photo finish, Jane Williams won a new AGA Total Control 
cooker. In 2014 there is added attraction of an AGA Dual 
Control cooker being at stake for open race owners.