 Chairman's	Statement
In	this,	my	second	year	as	Chairman	of	Dawson,	I	am	pleased	to	report	that	our	
cashmere	businesses	again	performed	well	in	challenging	circumstances.	However,	
the	results	of	the	Home	Furnishings	business	were	disappointing,	impacted	by	
rising	raw	material	costs	and	continuing	difficulties	in	the	retail	market.	The 	 Board	
had	previously	agreed	that	it	should	focus	its	strategy	on	developing	the	cashmere 	
businesses	which	are	Dawson's	core	competencies	and	in	light	of	the	ongoing	difficulties 	
facing	the	Home	Furnishings	business	during	the	period,	came	to	the	conclusion	that	the 	
business	should	be	sold.	The	business	was	sold	on	17	May	2011,	generating	estimated 	
net	proceeds	of	 6.0	million.	Therefore,	the	results	presented	here	concentrate	on 	
continuing	operations	comprising	our	UK	and	US	Knitwear	businesses.
02		 Chairman's Statement  Report and Financial Statements 2011 As we stated in last year's annual report, one of our key strategic 
objectives is to finalise negotiations with the Pension Trustees on an 
affordable arrangement that addresses the Company's commitments 
to its pension plan members, retains the resources necessary to 
fund growth and allows shareholders to share equitably in the future 
benefits of the business. The Directors believe that the size of the 
pension deficit relative to the reduced activities of the Company 
makes an affordable long term recovery plan more challenging and 
are working with the Trustees of the schemes to explore what options 
are open to secure members' benefits without compromising the 
future of the business. Whilst it is frustrating that we are not yet able 
to report an outcome from our protracted and expensive negotiations, 
the funds generated from the disposal of the Home Furnishings 
business will assist in the determination of a satisfactory solution to 
this ongoing process.
Performance
The Company has changed its accounting reference date from  
31 December to 31 March. This is intended to reduce the seasonal 
fluctuation between first and second half results and to align the 
budgeting process with order intake for the coming season better. 
Reported results are therefore for the 15 month period to 2 April 
2011 and include an additional first calendar quarter, which is 
seasonally loss-making for the Group. In this additional first quarter, 
continuing operations recorded sales of  1.6 million (2010:  2.6 
million) and an operating loss of  1.7 million (2010:  1.5 million 
loss).
The pre-exceptional operating profit from continuing operations  
was  0.1 million for the 15 month period to 2 April 2011 compared 
with a pre-exceptional operating profit of  2.9 million for the  
12 month period to 2 January 2010. Both the UK and US Knitwear 
businesses performed well, returning operating profits of  0.7 million 
and  2.3 million respectively. These results were achieved against a 
background of rapidly escalating cashmere prices which increased 
by around 40% in 2010 and a further 20% in the first part of 2011.
While strenuous efforts were made to reduce central costs, including 
the downsizing and relocation of the Corporate Office, the benefits 
of these savings were outweighed by an increase in pension costs, 
both the pension protection fund levy and advisors fees incurred, as 
we continue to negotiate a strategy to address the plan deficits. It 
is vital that we conclude these discussions as quickly as possible to 
stem these costs.
We recorded net exceptional income of  1.8 million for the period 
(2010:  0.6 million). Further proceeds of  2.7 million from our 
previous joint venture partner, King Deer, were recognised during 
the period, however, it was necessary to increase our provision for 
US environmental remediation costs by  0.6 million to reflect revised 
estimates of the remediation period. We also incurred one-off 
restructuring costs of  0.3 million.
Both	the	UK	and	US	Knitwear	
businesses	performed	well,	returning	
operating	profits	of	 0.7	million	and	
 2.3	million	respectively 
Report and Financial Statements 2011  Chairman's Statement		 03
Dawson	Forte
Dawson	Forte	sources	cashmere	
garments	from	China	for	US	private	
label	retail	programmes	and	its	own	
branded	cashmere	collection	 Kinross'. The sale of the Home Furnishings business to Brookmann Home 
Limited was completed on 17 May 2011. The consideration was 
based on net asset value at completion which, after estimated costs 
of  0.5 million, is expected to generate funds of  6.0 million.  
 4.0 million of the consideration was paid on completion with 
the balance payable over a period not exceeding six months. As 
security for this deferred consideration, the Company has retained 
stocks of  2.5 million which Dawson Home Group Limited has 
contracted to repurchase over this period.
Further details on all of the above are given in the Business and 
Financial Review.
Pensions
The pension scheme liabilities reported in the balance sheet are 
calculated in accordance with IAS 19. On this basis, the liabilities 
reduced from  19.3 million to  11.5 million, mainly due to strong 
asset performance in the period.
However, as noted in the last annual report, the level of contributions 
paid by the Company is based on a full actuarial valuation of 
scheme liabilities which is updated by the independent scheme 
actuary every three years. A triennial valuation is currently being 
finalised which is expected to show a significantly higher deficit than 
both the current IAS 19 valuation and the last triennial valuation, 
mainly due to changes in assumptions made by the scheme 
actuary concerning life expectancy and discount factors. This likely 
escalation of the deficit represents a significant challenge for the UK 
business in terms of the prospective future demands for increased 
financial support which may be placed on it by the pension schemes 
and discussions are ongoing with the Pensions Trustees and the 
Pensions Regulator at considerable expense to agree a sustainable 
way forward. Those discussions are considering a range of options 
for dealing with the pension deficit. The length of time taken to 
resolve this issue is indicative of the complexity of the situation and 
the challenge of funding such significant deficits.
Funding
Our funding position is currently strong with cash and deposits of 
 10.2 million at 2 April 2011 (2 January 2010:  12.3 million). During 
the period, we extended our US facility with Bank of America for a 
further three years and entered into a three year facility agreement 
with GE Commercial Finance Limited in the UK, replacing our 
previous facility with Gmac Commercial Finance Limited on broadly 
similar terms. Our funding position was further strengthened after 
the period end by the disposal of the Home Furnishings business 
as noted above. It must be recognised however, that our seasonal 
working capital requirements absorb some of these funds mid-year 
and that a solution to the pensions issue is also likely to absorb a 
significant proportion of these funds.
Board and Management
In September 2010 we advised of the departure of Andy Bartmess 
and the appointment of Jim Carrie, the Managing Director of  
Barrie Knitwear, as Chief Operating Officer and myself as Executive 
Chairman. Since September Jim has overseen a closer working 
relationship between the two knitwear businesses, which he 
now heads. With the sale of Dawson Home Group in May 2011, 
his focus is now exclusively the knitwear businesses, whilst my 
responsibilities are corporate matters and a resolution to the pension 
issue. On 2 August 2011 Giovanni Ghione left the Board and I would 
like to thank him for his valuable contribution during his term of office 
which has seen significant change in the Group. I am pleased to 
welcome Jim Carrie to the Board following his appointment on  
8 August 2011.
Employees
I would again like to acknowledge the very difficult challenges faced 
by employees in all of our Group businesses during these turbulent 
economic times. I thank everyone for their continued dedication and 
efforts to sustain existing business and their creative approach to 
maximising opportunities as they emerge.
Outlook
It is clear that our trading results for 2011/12 will be impacted by the 
recent increases in cashmere raw material prices discussed above, 
reducing margins in both of our knitwear businesses but particularly 
so in the case of the US Knitwear business. We intend to make the 
investments and decisions necessary to ensure both businesses are 
well placed and resourced to benefit from returning stability in the 
raw material market, when this comes, although this is unlikely in the 
short term.
Our key priority is to resolve our pension funding issues as quickly 
as possible in a manner which takes full account of the financial 
circumstances of the Company, and recognises fairly the interests of 
all stakeholders in the Company.
David Bolton | Chairman 
04		 Chairman's Statement  Report and Financial Statements 2011
Barrie
Barrie	operates	at	the	top	end	of	the	
luxury	cashmere	knitwear	market	
with	its	brands	John	Laing,	Barrie	and	
Glenmac.	It	designs,	develops	and	
manufactures	highest	quality	cashmere	
knitwear	for	some	of	the	world's	most	
prestigious	couture	houses.