 I am pleased to present the annual results 
for the group for the year ended 
30 June 2006.
In this period, Digital Classics plc has been
transformed from an arts and entertainment-
based production and distribution company to
DCD Media plc, through the acquisition 
of two further independent producers and
another distributor. 
NBD Television, with its catalogue led by rock
and pop music programmes, and Box TV,
which produces major  event dramas' such as
 Sweeney Todd' (starring Ray Winstone) on
BBC One, were acquired in December 2005. 
Done and Dusted, one of the world's foremost
companies specialising in filming rock
concerts and major staged events, joined in
February 2006. The enlarged group rose 
from a market capitalisation of  6.3m on 
30 November 2005 to  33.1m on 30 June
2006. The results below contain the full year
performance of the original Digital Classics
group plus part-year performances  of the
newly-acquired companies. 
Financial Review
The group's turnover during the period was
 13.3m, an increase of  10.16m on 2005
( 3.134m).
Gross profit was  3.08m, an increase of
 1.45m on 2005 ( 1.629m).
EBITDA was  2.3m, an increase of  2.2m on
2005 ( 34,000). There was a pre-tax loss for
the year after interest, goodwill and rights
amortisation of  1.17m, (2005:  564,000).
This reflects additional one-off costs during
the year (including group reorganisation
 437,000, set up costs of DVD and 
Education divisions  131,000). Goodwill
written off in relation to acquisitions rose 
by  509,000.
Net assets stood at  21.4m, up from
 6,877,000 in 2005. Net current assets 
were  1,482,000, an increase of  749,000
over 2005 ( 733,000).
The reported profits reflect not only
significantly increased activity but the fact 
that the enlarged company now includes
productions that will regularly generate
revenue, which will help towards smoothing
out the inevitable fluctuations of production
activity. 
It is not easy to compare the performance 
of the group from last year to this year, given
the transformative acquisitions. We consider
the best guide to our performance lies in 
the number and value of programmes sold.
These relate directly to turnover. Our
expectations were  9.8m, while in the 
event the total was  13.3m. 
Deal structure of acquisitions
Each of the companies acquired during the
period was bought on a multiple of earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation of ten times or less, based on
current and historic performance, with an
average forward multiple of approximately
seven. In all cases the vendors were the
company's management, who all agreed to
accept new service agreements lasting at least
three years, and who all received half their
consideration in cash and half in DCD Media
shares which were locked in for two years
(plus a third year through an orderly market
agreement with the group's brokers). It is
therefore self-evident that each of them
bought into DCD Media and is incentivised to
help it grow and prosper.
The cash elements of the acquisitions were
funded by an equity placing of c. 5.5m (net of
expenses) plus a loan of  8m convertible to
equity at a premium of 20% over the placing
price. The equity raise was effected at a share
price of 0.65p, compared with 1.1p as of 
30 June this year.
Review of divisions
Production
Box TV
The largest single contributor to group
turnover being higher than anticipated 
was Box TV.
The drama producer was expected to
conclude  Sweeney Todd' and commence 
the BBC One Christmas drama  Wind In 
The Willows' (starring Matt Lucas and Bob
Hoskins) during the period, which it duly did;
but it was also commissioned by ITV1 to 
make the mini-series  Bon Voyage', which 
02 DCD media
Chairman's Statement
Christopher Hunt Chief Executive David Elstein Chairman
Sales in FY2006 outperformed expectations and our
group outlook for the current year shows continued growth
and exceeds revenue expectations. Each division is now
benefiting from being part of this larger production and
distribution entity and we look forward to strengthening our
position as the sector consolidates. 
David Elstein Chairman
A yearof transformation
27489 DCD PRE  9/11/06  8:59 pm  Page 2 Almost 7 million viewers tuned
in to watch Ray Winstone's star
turn as the demon barber of
Fleet Street as BBC1 premiered
Sweeney Todd
on 3 January 2006.
was transmitted in October. In each case there
were sales in both UK and foreign markets,
and there is reason to anticipate further profits
from them. 
Box TV has an encouraging number of projects
in development and detailed negotiation. To
help cope with an expected rise in production
activity, it has recently engaged Adrian Bate,
who was previously Head of Drama at Zenith
Entertainment.
Done and Dusted
Done and Dusted joined the group at the end
of February 2006. Since then, the company
has shot a number of the world's most famous
rock and pop acts, from Coldplay, the Scissor
Sisters and the Rolling Stones to Kelly Clarkson
and Robbie Williams. It has also filmed other
events such as the Laureus World Sports
Awards and T4 On The Beach, the Channel 4
event which it stages as well as films; these 
are two out of a roster of annual events that 
it covers. 
Done and Dusted has also gained new
commissions directly for television, and further
built its business in the U.S. These are two
important areas for the company's growth.
Iambic Productions Limited
The group's original production unit has
maintained a high margin but slippage caused
by ITV's change of commissioning structure
and personnel has delayed two major projects
which now fall substantially into 2007.
27489 DCD PRE  13/11/06  12:04 pm  Page 3 Since acquisition Done and Dusted has
further built its business in the U.S.
and shot such acts as Coldplay, Robbie
Williams, the Rolling Stones, Kelly
Chairman's Statement
continued
Iambic completed its biography of Joan
Sutherland and during the year produced a
documentary and concert film entitled  The
People's Chorus'; other commissions included
a new Abba programme, and a major
documentary for BBC One. Its new
entertainment division, IP Entertainment, won
its first green light for a major ITV
documentary.
There was significant sales revenue in respect
of its previously completed Michael Jackson
documentary, with more expected in 2007.
Distribution
NBD Television (NBD)
The television distributor NBD was acquired in
December 2005. Founded over twenty years
ago, its prime focus is on rock and pop music
programming, though it sells dramas, feature
films, documentaries and other genres as well.
Since it became part of the DCD Media group
it has performed in line with expectations,
with programmes featuring Paul McCartney,
Eminem, Oasis, Simply Red, and major
concerts from The Concert for Bangladesh to
the new Secret Policeman's Ball. At the same
time, NBD has absorbed Digital Classics
Distribution, allowing important cost savings
to be achieved.
NBD has also begun to distribute programmes
produced by the group's production divisions,
such as Done and Dusted's T4 On The Beach,
324%
increase in turnover
27489 DCD PRE  9/11/06  8:59 pm  Page 4
Clarkson and Scissor Sisters (pictured). Box TV's Wind In The Willows and Iambic's
Abba programmes. This is an example of the
added value the new shape of the group
creates.
The outlook for NBD includes increasing sales
to new media, which have been growing
during the year under review.
Digital Classics Distribution Limited
(DCDL)
Television sales in the group's mainly classical
distributor were steady, though in traditional
 linear' channels the market has become
somewhat more difficult. However, its
catalogue is well-suited for exploitation in 
on-demand and broadband delivery systems,
which are in various stages of development
around the world.
As noted above, this division has now merged
into NBD, a process achieved without any
hiatus in sales.
Digital Classics DVD (DC DVD)
A year ago the group decided that the most
financially advantageous way to exploit the
DVD rights in its catalogue was to create its
own DVD label. 
DC DVD duly launched in October 2005 with
Tony Palmer's  Margot'. 15 titles had been
released in the UK by June 2006, while 10 of
these have also been released in the US
through a joint venture with specialist label
Kultur (which also sees DC DVD distribute
selected titles from Kultur outside the US). 
6 titles have so far been released in Europe
through Harmonia Mundi.
The Digital Curriculum DVD Music Suite has
also continued selling in line with previous
years.
The company has acquired a number of
comedy titles for DVD distribution. The first of
these, released at the end of June, was Ronnie
Barker's 1969 film  Futtocks End' which has
sold very well. 6 further classic comedies will
be released shortly including the unique 
 Sir Henry at Rawlinson End' starring Vivian
Stanshall and Trevor Howard.
Titles are all sold from the DC DVD website as
well as through retail. The website is being
developed to include streaming and
downloading of extracts and full programmes,
which will become a new and expanding
revenue stream as the market stabilises.
Though the release schedule has been a little
slower than anticipated, sales have in general
been ahead of expectation and the new
business has established itself well.
Outlook
The group as a whole made good progress in
2006 and 2007 gives an opportunity for
further improvement within each division and
in capitalising on potential synergy. Turnover
expectations for the group have been raised.
The broader base of production and
distribution both spreads risks and creates
business opportunities. We expect our
internal growth to attract other companies
keen to join the group, and will carefully
evaluate such options so as to maximise
shareholder value. Internal initiatives are also
expected to generate new revenue streams 
in 2007 and 2008.
Your directors will continue to be vigilant and
diligent, and our strengthened management
team is committed to making further progress
next year. 
David Elstein
Chairman
05 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The outlook for NBD includes increasing 
sales to new media, which have been
growing during the year under review.
18%
27489 DCD PRE  9/11/06  8:59 pm  Page 5