 Executive Chairman's review 
DCD Media Plc  3 Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 
 
Review of activity within the Group during the year. 
 
Production 
 
- Factual Television Production - This division is involved in the production of factual based content from the Prospect 
Pictures, Prospect Cymru/Wales, Rize USA and West Park Pictures brands. The review of joint venture Matchlight is 
also contained in this division 
 
- Entertainment Television Production - This division is involved in the production of entertainment based television 
content. This includes productions by September Films 
 
- Event Management - This division organises and manages events, primarily music concerts through Done and 
Dusted 
 
Distribution 
 
- Rights and Licensing - This division is involved with the sale of distribution rights, DVDs, music and publishing deals 
through DCD Rights and DCD Publishing (which comprises Digital Classics DVD and DCD Music) 
 
Factual Division 
 
The Group restructured its factual division bringing West Park Pictures, Prospect Pictures and Prospect Cymru/Wales 
under the Factual umbrella supported by a centralized management team with factual programming expertise including 
business affairs, finance and production management. 
 
Highlights for 2011 included several successful programmes notably: Shirley, the biopic starring Ruth Negga in the role 
of Shirley Bassey, which achieved top ratings as the centre piece of BBC2's Mixed Race season and has won the Best 
Television Actress award at the Irish Film And Television Awards and was nominated for Best Actress at the Royal 
Television Society Awards; 6-part series Misbehaving Mums To Be for BBC3 which enjoyed high ratings and 
international sales; 2-part BBC documentary Passion of Port Talbot starring Michael Sheen which aired on BBC Wales 
to critical acclaim and BBC4 documentary Elgar: The Man Behind the Mask which won numerous awards including a 
BAFTA Craft Award 2011. 
 
Finally the division launched a topical programming unit which quickly won its first commission with the documentary 
Gipsy Eviction: The Fight for Dale Farm for Channel 4, one of the highest rated Dispatches films of 2011. 
 
Matchlight 
 
Glasgow based independent factual producer Matchlight, the joint venture with DCD Media launched in 2009, further 
cemented its reputation as one of Scotland's leading production companies. 
 
Matchlight's roster of clients now includes all the major UK broadcasters and the company has also strengthened its links 
with on-screen talent, working with a range of high profile personalities such as Prof. Amanda Vickery, John Humphrys, 
Rory Stewart, Dr. Helen Castor and Alexis Conran.  
 
During the year Matchlight delivered over 10 series or individual films including for BBC1 - The Griersons Awards 
nominated Imagine: The Trouble with Tolstoy; for BBC2 - the RTS Programme Award nominated At Home with the 
Georgians; The Many Lovers of Jane Austen and The Future State of Welfare; for BBC3 - Josie: My Cancer Curse; 
and for Channel 5 - the 6 part series Dangerous Drivers' School. Just after the year end it also won its first 
commission for ITV1 with a new film Lenny Henry: Finding Shakespeare, presented by comedian and actor Lenny 
Henry. 
 
The outlook for Matchlight remains positive with a slate of projects in production and development across observational 
documentary, history, arts, current affairs and popular factual television. 
 
Rize USA 
 
Rize USA was launched in October 2011 as a co-venture between DCD Media and former September Films Creative 
Director, Sheldon Lazarus. Based in London and Los Angeles, the company operates under the DCD umbrella and 
focuses on factual, factual entertainment and reality programming for the UK and the US.  
 
Rize has enjoyed a strong start and proven a valuable brand addition to the DCD stable of production companies, 
winning over  2 million worth of new business since inception. During the period under review Rize won its first 
documentary specials, Accused: The 74-Stone Babysitter and My Social Network Stalker: True Stories, which both 
aired post year end and achieved strong audience ratings on Channel 4.  
 
The company is currently in production on a number of new series and one-off productions for UK and US broadcasters 
to be announced in 2012. 
  Executive Chairman's review 
DCD Media Plc  4 Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 
 
Rize USA (continued) 
 
Rize USA's output is in line with DCD Media's portfolio of non-scripted offerings and further strengthening the Group's 
position in the non-scripted market. The current strong pipeline of projects bodes well on both sides of the Atlantic and 
will also continue to generate valuable IP to be exploited worldwide. 
 
Entertainment Division 
 
September Films 
 
September Films is a producer of reality television, entertainment and formats based in Los Angeles and London. The 
division's performance was driven by returning hit series and talent fronted primetime entertainment shows. Highlights 
from the year included new seasons of the high volume series Bridezillas and Billy The Exterminator for A&E as well 
as ITV1 Saturday night series Penn & Teller: Fool Us, presented by Jonathan Ross. Bridezillas and Penn & Teller: 
Fool Us have performed strongly in the international market place where they are distributed by DCD Rights, the 
Group's wholly owned distribution arm. The BAFTA winning children's series Richard Hammond's Blast Lab 
transmitted its fourth series on BBC1 and BBC2 and continued to perform well in sales and licensing.  
The division renewed its Creative team with two new senior appointments and a promotion for the new roles of Head of 
Entertainment, Head of Factual Entertainment and Head of Development in the UK, together with a number of senior US 
executive appointments for newly created positions at its LA office in Tribeca West including Senior Vice President, 
Creative and VP Development to help sustain growth in the US market.  
The outlook for September Films is positive particularly in the US market where the division has a strong reputation and 
solid pipeline of returning reality series. 
 
Event Management Division 
 
Done and Dusted 
 
The music and live events division delivered recurring large scale productions including The Laureus World Sports 
Awards 2011 live from Abu Dhabi, Channel 4's summer music event T4 On the Beach which broadcast live in the 
summer and The Mobo Awards which aired live on BBC1 in the autumn. US based work included the returning 
franchise The Victoria's Secret Fashion Show which transmitted on CBS at the end of November. T4 Stars was held 
in December 2011 and transmitted live on Channel 4. 
 
In September 2011, the Group confirmed the intended departure of its Done and Dusted management team at the end of 
December 2011. The departing management group have bought the trademark Done and Dusted from DCD Media. The 
Event Management division has been shown as a discontinued operation within the financial statements (note 10). 
 
Rights and Licensing Division 
 
DCD Rights 
 
The Group's distribution arm was hampered by a difficult trading environment, coupled with a major buyer going into 
administration. Despite this backdrop, DCD Rights held its own and continued to expand in the international market. 
Many of the new shows acquired have been well received by network buyers around the world and also garnered 
numerous awards.  
 
The support of DCD Rights' distribution fund and close relationships with top producers has been vital in securing third 
party programming from around the world. 
 
Bridezillas, produced by September Films, continued to sell worldwide and entertainment series Penn & Teller: Fool 
Us performed well both as a finished programme and format. DCD Rights' factual catalogue has continued to grow and a 
notable ratings winner this year has been Dangerous Drivers School, produced by Matchlight, on Channel 5. 
 
DCD Publishing (including DVD label Digital Classics) 
 
The licensing arm of DCD Media exploiting wholly-owed and third party brands for IP in publishing, merchandising, DVD 
and music had a year of consolidation in 2011. It continued to take advantage of its access to the world's largest music 
publishing catalogues and launched a number of innovative products. 
  
DCD Publishing have broadened their representation to include talent and to that end have signed representation deals 
with Emma Forbes, Russell Grant, Vincent and Flavia of BBC's Strictly Come Dancing, Windsor Concourse of 
Elegance, Mahiki, and TV company Splash Media. 
 
  Executive Chairman's review 
DCD Media Plc  5 Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 
 
DCD Publishing (including DVD label Digital Classics) (continued) 
 
Richard Hammond's Blast Lab merchandise continues to sell well and the  Bluw' toys range of music-based products 
got off to a flying start. 
 
Digital Classics DVD, the Group's wholly owned DVD label, continued to increase the number of titles in the catalogue 
through third-party acquisitions as well as DCD-owned programmes. Continuing to work on titles by Stephen Fry, the 
label released a number of boxed sets all of which sold well. In 2011 the label suffered stock loss when Sony's Enfield 
warehouse burnt down in the riots but financial impact was limited by an effective insurance cover. Digital Classics DVD 
also took the opportunity of changing distribution arrangements, signing a new deal with distribution partner Demand in 
August, and sales volumes have increased significantly as a result. Highlighted titles in the period were Tony 
Robinson's Crime and Punishment, At Home with the Georgians and Peter Ackroyd's Thames. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
David Green 
Executive Chairman 
 
28 May 2012 
 
 
 