 www.dechra.com
Stock Code: DPH
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012
20 21
21587-04  10/08/2012 Proof 3 21587-04  10/08/2012 Proof 3
Directors' Report: Our Performance
Our Business
Directors' Report
Our Performance
Directors' Report
Our Governance Our Accounts
Shareholder 
Information
Spain & Portugal
Jesper Graff BBA, MBA, IESE
email: info.es@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.es
Jesper Graff started work for the Group in 1991 
and was appointed the Country Manager of 
Spain and Portugal in 1998. He has over 16 
years' experience in the animal health business. 
Jesper was previously an officer in the army. He 
graduated from Copenhagen Business School 
and obtained an MBA from IESE in Spain.
Introducing the DVP Country Managers
Dechra Veterinary Products currently operates sales, marketing and technical 
support teams in 14 countries, each led by a manager who has a wealth of 
knowledge and experience of the animal health market in which they operate. 
These managers are integral to the growth in sales and profitability of our products 
in their countries.
United States
Mike Eldred
email: info@dechra.com
web: www.dechra-us.com
Mike Eldred was appointed as President of the 
US operations in 2004. Details of his previous 
professional experience can be found on 
page 43.
UK & Eire
Bob Parmenter
email: info.uk@dechra.com
web (UK): www.dechra.co.uk
web (Eire): www.dechra-eu.com
Bob Parmenter was appointed in July 2008 as 
the Country Manager of the UK and Eire. He has 
over 42 years' experience in the animal health 
business, of which 38 years were spent with ICI 
Animal Health (subsequently Intervet/Schering 
Plough). Bob joined the board of NOAH in 2002 
and was appointed its Chairman from April 2010 
to April 2012.
France
Florence Lasverg res DVM, MBA
email: info_fr@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.fr
Florence Lasverg res was appointed as the Country 
Manager of France in June 2007. She graduated as a 
veterinary surgeon from Alfort Vet School in 1988, and 
obtained a Masters in marketing from ESSEC-IMD. 
Florence has over 23 years' experience in the animal 
health business in various positions including regulatory, 
sales, marketing and management, successively with 
SmithKline Beecham, Upjohn and Pharmacia. She is also 
an active member of the French Office of Animal Health 
(SIMV) board.
Denmark
Mette Trige MSc
email: info.dk@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.dk 
Mette Trige commenced work in 2001 as a 
sales representative and was appointed Country 
Manager of Denmark in 2006. She specialised in 
molecular genetics, nutrition and physiology at 
the Faculty of Life Sciences at the University of 
Copenhagen, graduating in 1994.
Norway
Sverre Aasgaard
email: info@dechra.no
web: www.dechra.no
Sverre Aasgaard started work with the Group in 1980 and has 
worked in various roles; he was appointed as the Country Manager 
of Norway in 2005. Sverre has over 30 years' experience in the 
animal health business. In 2006 he was appointed Honourable 
Member of the Norwegian Veterinary Association, being one of only 
two non-veterinarians to receive this award.
Finland
henri hilden DVM
email: info.fi@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.fi 
Henri Hilden was appointed as the Country Manager of Finland 
in December 2007. He graduated as a veterinary surgeon in 
Sweden and Finland, in 1984 and 1988 respectively. Henri 
has over 20 years' experience in the animal health business in 
management positions for Orion Corporation Animal Health, 
Intervet Animal Health Finland, Veter Animal Health and Merial 
Norden A/S.
Sweden
Carina Kjellberg
email: info.se@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.se  
Carina Kjellberg started in 2000 and was appointed the 
Country Manager of Sweden in 2005. She has over 21 
years' experience in the animal heath business, 11 of 
which were working as a veterinary nurse.
Germany
Dr Gerfried Zeller Dr.med.vet
email: infor@albrecht-vet.de
email: info.de@dechra.com
web: www.albrecht-vet.de   web: www.dechra-eu.com
Gerfried Zeller is the General Manager of Albrecht GmbH, the 
German subsidiary of Dechra. He graduated as a veterinary 
surgeon from Humboldt University of Berlin. Gerfried has more 
than 21 years' experience in the veterinary pharmaceutical 
industry, experienced with Hoechst Roussel Vet, Intervet, and 
since 2006, with Albrecht. Gerfried is member of the board of 
Bundesverband f r Tiergesundheit (BfT), the German branch 
of IFAH and Chairman of the Friends Association of the 
Friedrich-Loeffler-Institute (FLI), Federal Research Institute for 
Animal Health.
Benelux
Kurt van der heijden
email: info.nl@dechra.com
web: www.dechra.nl   web: www.eurovet-ah.com
Kurt van der Heijden was appointed as the new Country 
Manager of Benelux, on the acquisition of Eurovet. He has 
over 20 years of management experience in various industries, 
of which the last six years have been in the animal health 
business, starting at Schering-Plough as Sales Manager 
Benelux and subsequently as Business Unit Manager 
Companion Animal at Intervet/Schering-Plough (now Merck 
Animal Health), followed by an international position as 
Regional Director at Eurovet. www.dechra.com
Stock Code: DPH
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012
22 23
21587-04  10/08/2012 Proof 3 21587-04  10/08/2012 Proof 3
Directors' Report: Our Performance
Our Business
Directors' Report
Our Performance
Directors' Report
Our Governance Our Accounts
Shareholder 
Information
European Pharmaceuticals:  This segment comprises DVP EU (incorporating Eurovet) and  
Dechra Manufacturing
Tony Griffin
Managing Director
Ren  hogenkamp
Finance Director
Giles Coley
Sales and Marketing Director, 
Region I
Jan Jaap Korevaar
Sales and Marketing Director, 
Region II
Roeland Meijers
Director of Diets
Carsten Jeppesen
Logistics Director Europe
Marie-Louise Mans
HR Director Europe
What we do
This business unit markets and sells our own branded veterinary 
products across 13 European countries and manages the 
relationships with our worldwide marketing partners.
Operational Structure
The business has an operating board of seven senior managers. 
The business is managed from Bladel, the Netherlands and 
Sansaw, UK. Companion animal marketing is located in 
Sansaw, farm animal marketing in Bladel and Specific pet diets 
marketing in Uldum, Denmark.
We have nine Country Managers operating out of Denmark, 
Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, 
Sweden and the UK. Ireland and Portugal are managed out of 
the UK and Spain respectively and Belgium and Luxembourg 
are managed out of the Netherlands. 
We currently employ 73 representatives across these territories. 
DVP EU, including Eurovet, employs 436 people.
Our Market
Our customers are veterinary surgeons, predominantly 
operating out of commercial veterinary practices. Before 
acquiring Eurovet, this was entirely small animal and equine; 
most European markets are demonstrating growth although, 
on the whole, this is inflationary. Although consumers continue 
to treat sick animals, high levels of historic growth have 
declined in the current depressed global economy as spend 
has reduced on discretionary items such as pet diets. However, 
this has had minimal effect on DVP as most our products 
are therapeutic. Internet pharmacies, predominantly in the 
UK, but also increasingly in other major European territories, 
are demonstrating stronger levels of growth as consumers 
look to reduce the cost of pet and horse ownership. Through  
Eurovet the business now supplies large animal practices; 
these are predominantly pig and poultry practices which are 
very specialised, and although few in number are high value. 
DVP EU also sells into over 40 countries through relationships 
with distribution partners who themselves sell into veterinary 
practices in their own country.
Key Strengths
Our business is unique as the majority of our products 
are either novel and are used to treat medical 
conditions for which there is often no other effective 
solution or have a clinical or dosing advantage over 
competitor products. Our key marketing benefit, 
especially on diets, is that our products are only 
marketed and sold to veterinary practices. Due to the 
technical nature of many of our products, we invest in 
state of the art online communication tools. We are one 
of the leading companies in the veterinary industry to 
offer online educational webinars and also approved continued 
professional development courses through our websites.
Achievements
The main achievement and ongoing priority is the integration of 
Eurovet into our European operations. Rationalisation of the four 
duplicated sales offices has been completed. Eurovet's Danish 
and UK offices have been closed and now operate out of 
Dechra's facilities, whilst Dechra's Dutch and Belgian operation 
has been closed and now operates out of Eurovet's facility 
in a consolidated Benelux unit. A number of key distribution 
agreements have been amended as we begin to realise revenue 
synergies on the marketing of Eurovet products through Dechra 
subsidiaries and through Dechra products being marketed by 
Eurovet's German operation.
Like for like growth on our pharmaceuticals was 9.0% ahead of 
last year with good growth seen from our key products, Vetoryl 
and Felimazole, which were introduced into our own subsidiary 
sales and marketing teams at the beginning of the financial 
year. The DermaPet products, acquired in October 2010 to 
strengthen our US business, have been launched into several 
EU territories in Dechra livery with positive initial sales.
Eurovet revenue since acquisition has been in line with our 
expectations and ahead of their corresponding period last year. 
This was achieved despite ongoing pressure to reduce antibiotic 
usage, especially in the Netherlands, one of the main markets 
for this range.
Sales of our specialised pet diets grew by 1.9% at constant 
currency in the financial year. We have successfully completed 
the supply change of all feline dry products into our new 
outsourced manufacturing facility in Sweden following the 
transfer of our canine diets in the preceding year. The wet diets 
have been re-optimised and introduced in new European pack 
presentation with nine languages. This has improved operational 
efficiency as it reduces the number of stocking units from 130 to 
19. Two new diets were launched during the period,  
Specific CED endocrine support and Specific FID digestive 
support. 
DVP EU Management Team
Region I: Denmark, Finland, France, Norway, Sweden and UK
Region II: Benelux, Germany, Portugal and Spain