 OVERVIEW
DEE VALLEY GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 DEE VALLEY GROUP PLC  GOVERNANCE 20 21
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
SUmmARY TeRmS OF ReFeReNCe
The Audit Committee's (Committee) terms of 
reference were reviewed and updated during the 
year to reflect best practice.  The main responsibilities 
include:
  considering the appointment of the external 
auditors, their reports to the Committee and 
their independence, including an assessment of 
their appropriateness to carry out any 
non-audit work;
  reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the 
Financial Statements and announcements 
relating to the financial performance of 
the Group;
  reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's 
internal controls and risk management systems;
  considering management's response to any 
external audit recommendations; and
  reporting to the Board and shareholders on the 
Committee's activities during the year. 
The Committee's full terms of reference are available 
on the Group's website at www.deevalleygroup.com
memBeRSHIP
The Committee's membership is comprised of 
two independent non-executive Directors, Jon 
Schofield, who acts as Chairman of the Committee, 
and David Weir.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the 
Committee includes recent and relevant financial 
experience. Further information in relation to the 
experience of Committee members is contained in 
the biographies on pages 14 and 15.
meeTINGS
The Committee met three times during the year 
with full attendance at each meeting.
Only Committee members are entitled to attend 
a meeting. However, the Chairman, executive 
Directors, external Audit engagement Partner and 
others are invited to attend meetings as considered 
appropriate and at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the 
Committee.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the 
Financial Statements and accounting policies 
upon which they were based and considered the 
independence, objectivity and fees of the external 
auditors and scope of audit and non-audit services.
RePORT OF THe AUDIT COmmITTee
This report summarises the activities of the Audit 
Committee during the year and has been approved 
by the Committee and the Board.
INTeRNAL AUDIT
During the year, the Committee reviewed the need 
for an internal audit function.  The review concluded 
that due to the size of the organisation, the internal 
controls in place and the level of external independent 
review of financial and business processes, including 
by the external auditors, an internal audit function 
was not necessary at this time.
The need for an internal audit function is kept under 
annual review.
exTeRNAL AUDITORS
The Committee is responsible for the appointment 
of the external auditor together with approving 
the level of their remuneration.  It also reviews the 
auditor's effectiveness on an annual basis.
Note 4 to the Financial Statements discloses the fees 
paid to the external auditor in respect of the statutory 
audit and also the fees paid in respect of non-audit 
work.  KPmG Audit plc have been the Group's 
auditors since the audit for the year ended 31 march 
2007 which was when the last tender in respect of 
the provision of audit services was conducted.
In order to preserve auditor independence and 
objectivity, non-audit work may only be awarded 
to the external auditor when the work is of such a 
nature that a detailed understanding of the Group 
is considered necessary, or when significant benefit 
can be gained from work previously completed. The 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
is considered on an annual basis, particularly in the 
context of the provision of non-audit services.
During the year, the Committee adopted a policy 
in respect of the appointment of former employees 
of the external auditor.  This was designed to 
further enhance the Group's corporate governance 
framework and strengthen transparency and 
independence.
The Committee has approved a formal whistle-
blowing policy whereby staff may, in confidence, 
disclose issues of concern about possible 
malpractice or wrongdoing by any of the Group's 
employees or the Group in general without fear  
of reprisal.
The Report of the Audit Committee was approved 
by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf by:
Jon Schofield
Chair of the Audit Committee
11 June 2013 OVERVIEW
DEE VALLEY GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 DEE VALLEY GROUP PLC  GOVERNANCE 22 23
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
The report has been approved by both the 
Remuneration Committee (Commitee) and the 
Board, and a resolution to approve the report will 
be proposed at the Annual General meeting of the 
Company on 25 July 2013.
PART A - UNAUDITeD INFORmATION
SUmmARY TeRmS OF ReFeReNCe
The Committee's main responsibilities include:
  reviewing and recommending the framework 
and policy for remuneration of the executive 
Directors and other senior executives;
  approving the individual employment and 
remuneration packages for executive Directors 
and other senior executives;
  monitoring trends in remuneration and ensuring 
the remuneration policy is such that the Group 
can attract, retain and motivate executives 
of the quality required to run the Group 
successfully; and
  reporting to the Board and shareholders on the 
Committee's activities during the year. 
The Committee's full terms of reference are available 
on the Group's website at www.deevalleygroup.com
memBeRSHIP
The Committee's membership comprises solely 
independent non-executive Directors. The members 
of the Committee are David Weir, Chairman of the 
Committee, and Jon Schofield. Graham Scott, the 
Company Chairman, who was independent on his 
appointment to the Board, is also a member.
Details of non-executive Directors' experience 
and short biographies are set out on pages 14 and 
15. The Board considers that these Directors have 
suitable experience to serve on the Committee.
meeTINGS
During the year, the Committee met on two 
occasions with full attendance at each meeting.  
executive Directors may attend Committee meetings 
as required and at the invitation of the Chairman. 
However, no executive Director is involved in 
determining his own remuneration nor is present 
when their own remuneration is discussed.  
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the 
Committee.
RemUNeRATION POLICY
The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration 
packages are competitive and sufficient to attract, 
retain and motivate Directors of a suitable calibre.  
In seeking to achieve this aim, the Committee has 
due regard to the remuneration packages offered 
by similar organisations. Similar organisations are 
selected taking into account the industry sector, 
size and turnover, the diversity and complexity 
of operation and responsibilities in respect of 
public health and regulatory requirements.            
The Committee reviews this policy and whether 
remuneration arrangements appropriately reflect 
the policy annually.
The remuneration package for each executive 
Director is determined by the Committee, with the 
Chairman and executive Directors being responsible 
for the agreement of non-executive Directors' 
remuneration.
RePORT OF THe 
RemUNeRATION COmmITTee
This report, prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee on behalf of the Board, sets out the 
remuneration of executive and  
non-executive Directors.
BASe SALARY AND BeNeFITS
Basic salary and benefits for executive Directors 
take into account the individual's experience, roles, 
responsibilities and performance. This is reviewed, 
in accordance with the policy set out above, on an 
annual basis with any change being effective from 
1 April.
The non-salary benefits for executive Directors 
comprise:
  a company car or cash alternative;
  private medical insurance; and
  life assurance.
In addition, Norman Holladay receives a fuel benefit.
Given the nature of the Group's activities, the 
Committee does not consider it appropriate for 
performance-related elements of remuneration 
to form a proportion of the total remuneration 
package of executive Directors, a non-compliance 
with Code Provision D.1.1.
PeNSIONS
Norman Holladay is a member of the Dee Valley 
Water section of the Water Companies Pension 
Scheme, the main provisions of which are:
  a maximum pension on retirement of 50% of 
final pensionable remuneration plus a lump sum 
of three times that amount;
  a normal retirement age of 60; and
  spouses pension and pension payable in the 
event of ill health.
Pensionable remuneration includes those taxable 
benefits which comprise the overall remuneration 
package.
The Group makes contributions to a defined 
contribution pension scheme in respect of 
David Strahan. Details in respect of the level of 
contributions are included in Part B of the Report of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to 
participate in any Group pension scheme.
DIReCTOR SeRVICe CONTRACTS AND 
LeTTeRS OF APPOINTmeNT
The Group's policy is that executive Directors normally 
have service contracts terminable by the giving of not 
less than 12 months notice, by either party.
The Group retains the right to terminate any 
executive Director's service contract by paying the 
executive's basic salary (as at the date of termination) 
for the unexpired portion of the notice period. Any 
such  payment in lieu' may be paid by equal monthly 
instalments until the notice period would have 
expired if given. The payment would also be reduced 
by the value of any basic salary earned in new paid 
employment during the notice period.
During the year, David Guest retired from the Board 
on 1 January 2013 and was replaced on the same 
date by David Strahan. The service contracts in 
respect of Norman Holladay and David Strahan 
are dated 1 December 2009 and 26 October 2012, 
respectively. 
For the period under review, no executive Director 
held any non-executive directorships.
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment, 
rather than service contracts, which provide for six 
months termination notice by either party. In the 
event of early termination, non-executive Directors 
are not entitled to receive compensation for loss 
of office. The letter of appointment of each non-
executive Director sets out the expected time 
commitment and is available for inspection at the 
Company's registered office address and also at the 
Annual General meeting.
Non-executive Directors under the age of 70 
normally have a letter of appointment for three years, 
however, non-executive Directors who have served 
for nine years or more have a letter of appointment 
for one year.