 2 Densitron Technologies plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Significant progress has been made
in simplifying the Group structure.
The new trading year has started 
with some encouragment.
In the 2002 annual report, we promised
challenges and opportunities and we
have indeed seen them in that order.
During a sluggish year for technology
companies we continued to apply our
strategy of simplification, consolidation
and focus with vigour. During the first
half of the year, we conducted a
strategic review that broadly endorsed
the direction determined the previous
year, yet highlighted our working capital
constraints.
One result of the review was confirmation
of our decision to explore every avenue
of non-value added cost. As a small plc
we determined that transferring to the
Alternative Investment Market would not
only be more relevant, but would save
costs as we continue to reorganise the
business. This move to AIM was duly
completed in July.
The Group disposed of two loss-making
subsidiaries, Densitron Internet
Technologies Limited and Densitron
Australia Pty Limited for nominal
considerations. Densitron Control
Systems Limited, a non core business,
was sold after the year end. Significant
progress has been made in simplifying
the Group structure. In Taiwan, three
subsidiaries have been merged,
reducing both office and personnel
costs and a further 11 superfluous
subsidiaries have either been dissolved
or become dormant. The simplification
of operating structure has enabled us 
to reduce staff at our Biggin Hill Head
Office from 71 in June 2002 to 54 in
December 2002 and to 35 as at
December 2003.
In September, Deloitte & Touche LLP
were appointed as auditors of the
Group. We are developing a good
relationship with them and have
welcomed the rigour of their approach 
in addressing key financial issues.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Although the first six months trading was
in line with our budget, the planned
growth in sales in the second half was
not achieved and fell considerably short
of our expectations. This was due to 
a number of factors. Specifically, due 
to market softness, major displays
customers were less willing to convert
orders into delivery schedules and,
therefore, sales. 
Continuing product process and quality
problems from some suppliers adversely
affected not only the winning of new
orders, but also orders already won. 
This impact was felt more in Europe 
and contributed to the streamlining of
our European sales force in order to be
more effective. Towards the end of the
year, we suffered some difficulties within
the sales function at Ferrograph with 
resulting reduction in orders. This
function has now been re-organised 
and is fully staffed.
Sales for the year were  28.0 million
(2002:  25.5 million). Turnover increased
by 21% in Europe and 12% in Asia, 
but decreased by 4% in North America
compared with 2002. The Group made
an operating loss of  0.1 million (2002:
 4.4 million) and a loss on ordinary
activities before finance charges of 
 5.8 million (2002:  3.8 million). The 
loss on ordinary activities before finance
charges included a charge of  6.0 
million (2002:  nil) for the impairment 
of goodwill relating to VBest Electronics
Co., Ltd as previously announced.
Net debt reduced by  2.2 million in 2003
(2002:  2.3 million increase); gearing
stood at 20% as at 31st December 2003 
(2002: 27%).
The Loss per share for 2003 was 24.09
pence (2002: 17.05 pence). The Directors
will not be recommending a final dividend
for 2003 (2002: no dividend).
New order intake in 2003 was  26.1
million (2002:  30.6 million) and the
Group's order book stood at  16.5
million at 31st December 2003 (2002:
 18.4 million).
RIGHTS ISSUE
In light of the disappointing performance
in the second half and delays in the sale
of non-core assets, we conducted an in
depth review of our working capital
requirements. The outcome of this
review was the identification of the need
to raise additional equity funding. A
rights issue was successfully concluded
in December 2003 and provided a net
 2.9 million that is being used for new
product introduction, cost reduction 
and to provide further working capital.
Shareholders took up 72.4% of rights
with 27.6% going to the underwriters
whose support has been invaluable. 
HITECH ELECTRONICS
CORPORATION
Hitech, in which we have 45% ownership,
has continued to perform well showing
growth in both its LCD module and
Operator Interface/Human Machine
Interface businesses. Expansion in Densitron Technologies plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3
WWW.DENSITRON.COM
Orders by half year ( 000) Sales by half year ( 000)
12,157
16,759
15,639
13,841
03 2nd half
02 2nd half
03 1st half
02 1st half
13,326
13,463
14,669
12,026
03 2nd half
02 2nd half
03 1st half
02 1st half
manufacturing in China is a key contributor
to the ongoing growth at Hitech. T o sustain
growth Hitech has investment plans to
expand its engineering resource to
increase new product introductions and
respond more effectively to market
demands. Hitech remains core to our
product strategy in the future.
VBEST ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
VBest, in which we have 25% ownership,
continues to supply monochrome T wisted
Nematic (TN) Liquid Crystal Displays
(LCDs) from its plant in Dong Guan,
China. This is running at full capacity.
However the yield and quality of colour
and monochrome Super T wisted Nematic
Displays (STN) from the new Kun Shan,
China facility has taken longer than
anticipated. Although progress is being
made VBest took the strategic decision to
acquire a manufacturing plant and related
expertise in T ai-chong, T aiwan from Epson
Industrial Limited in early 2004. This not
only considerably increased capacity of
TN and STN, but also brought a certain
guaranteed order level and product
specific staff expertise. This acquisition
also encompassed technology transfer
agreements for colour STN that should
speed up the introduction of this product
range. VBest intend to go for an Initial
Public Offering in May 2004. Discussions
are ongoing in T aiwan regarding float
price and exact timing. Whilst there is 
no certainty to the outcome of these
discussions we are optimistic that the 
float price will be higher than the impaired
value of this asset on our balance sheet.
We will provide more information on this 
at the appropriate time.
GENERAL
Densitron Technologies plc has, for some
years, owned a long-term lease on 
some land at Blackheath in the London
Borough of Greenwich. As there has
been speculation regarding this asset, 
I set out some background information.
The land comprises 5.7 acres of sports
fields and a pavilion. A 999-year lease
for the land was acquired in 1990. The
lease contained a number of restrictions
and the land is subject to a Metropolitan
Open Land order. 
In late 2002, we became aware of a plan
by the London Borough of Greenwich 
to redevelop a large area of South
Greenwich under a consultative
document, The Kidbrooke Vision. The
land is seen as non-core to the Group's
activities and the company has entered
into negotiations for the disposal of this
land and is endeavouring to maximise
the return for shareholders through a
possible land swap arrangement with
the London Borough of Greenwich.
There can be no certainty as to the
outcome of these negotiations and we
caution shareholders that due to the
Metropolitan Open Land Order, there is
little likelihood that planning consent will
be granted for residential development
in the foreseeable future. Late in 2003,
the Company acquired the Freehold of
the land for a nominal sum.
Due to increased business commitments,
James Morton resigned from the post of
non-executive Director in January 2004.
Whilst his counsel will be missed the
Board has moved swiftly to bring in an
experienced replacement and I am
pleased to report that Colin Bonsey was
appointed as a non-executive Director
on 4th March 2004.
TRADING UPDATE
The new trading year has started with
some encouragement. Current operating
conditions have seen an improvement
compared with second half of 2003 and
the actions taken in 2003 have started 
to show through in results.
The market is showing some signs 
of increasing activity and with our
organisational restructuring and market
focused strategy, we are endeavouring 
to capitalise on this. It is our intention 
to invest in the development of new
products for our chosen markets and
despite limited funds in 2003, we have
developed the DPX 114 computer board
for the embedded computing market,
which has been enthusiastically received.
As a result of new funding from the
Rights Issue, we have committed to
further new board level products and
development in our Ferrograph range 
of public information displays.
With all of the issues the Group has faced
and dealt with over the past 18 months, 
I am now confident that the Board and
management will be able to devote their
energies more to operational issues and
delivering results that we can be proud of.
The strain of recent times on all Densitron
employees should not be underestimated
and I would like to recognise their
continuing efforts and support in difficult
circumstances. Similarly, we have large
and small shareholders who can see the
Company's potential and the Board
appreciates their continuing understanding.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
14th April 2004