 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
6
Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2012
Chairman's Statement
to offer a service to customers to improve the quality of the images 
displayed by their product. In addition we have developed a 
suite of software (Ripdraw ) and smart TFT line that will enable 
customers to develop their own design to display their information 
without the requirement for employing expensive software 
developers. We anticipate that both of these new developments 
will enable our business to not only develop new customers but 
retain existing ones by ensuring the business is offering more to its 
customers than its competitors.
Land at Blackheath
The Group owns a 1.25 acre piece of land that the Group owns 
in Blackheath, South East London.
I reported in my statement last year that we were working on 
the reclassification of the land through the Local Development 
Framework and also exploring existing use rights on the site. 
This continues to be the case with the Local Development 
Framework issuing its consultancy document on 14th February 
2013 with a consultation period of 3 months. We have lodged 
representations detailing the reasons that we consider that the 
land should no longer be designated as Metropolitan Open 
Land. Following the consultation period the plan will be revised 
and passed to a Planning Inspector who will review the plan 
and the key issues during a period of public examination prior to 
submitting the final plan to the Secretary of State for approval. It 
is likely that the timescales involved in the process will mean that 
the final plan will not be adopted by the Council until next year. 
In the meantime the Council has confirmed the existing use 
class of the land and clubhouse as D2 and accordingly issued 
an appropriate certificate of lawful use for both the land and 
clubhouse. This confirmation was received in April 2013 and it 
is now our intention to submit a planning application to develop 
the footprint of the clubhouse into a residential dwelling.  We will 
continue to advise Shareholders when there is further information 
to report.
Shareholders
Capital growth - It is disappointing that the share price fell 25% 
during the year and has further weakened since the year end. 
I believe that this was in part due to operational performance 
and in part due to the uncertainty caused by the ongoing issue 
of the claim against the Company in respect of the lease of a 
property in Newcastle. The Executives have continued to meet 
with investors and potential investors during the year to present 
our business and future expectations and will continue to do so 
throughout the year. 
Introduction
It is disappointing to report on the results for the year ended 
31st December 2012 as I do not believe that they truly reflect 
the positive progress that the business has made over the last 
five years. The results reflect a general lack of confidence in 
the economy and caution exercised by customers which has 
resulted in delays to orders which themselves have been at lower 
levels than originally anticipated. Together with some additional 
supply issues this has caused revenues to be at a lower level 
than expected and consequently operating profit to be lower 
than that achieved in the previous year. Nevertheless, I am 
pleased to report that the investment made over the year will 
enable the business to progress during the ensuing years.
Densitron Displays
The year was an extremely challenging and ultimately frustrating 
one for the displays business. Right up until the end of the 
year there was an expectation that certain revenues would be 
achieved but for reasons outside the Group's control these 
were delayed causing a shortage in the expected revenues and 
consequently operating profit for the year.
I outlined in my statement in the 2011 Annual Report that four 
specific business objectives had been identified and would be 
incorporated into the business plan:
 	 Increase in market share from the existing business;
 	 Geographical expansion of the business;
 	 Introduction of new products to the current product offerings; 
and
 	 Creation of more value by development of the Group's own 
products and intellectual property.
The first three of these objectives reflect how the business had 
been grown over the previous years and as objectives they remain 
unchanged but due to the global recession it has been difficult to 
increase our market share. However, at the beginning of 2012 we 
opened an office in India and this has progressed satisfactorily 
with a strong pipeline of business opportunities being developed. 
It is a complex marketplace and one that we will look to develop 
further as we see revenues being generated over the next 12 
months. At the end of 2012 we appointed a commissioned agent 
to exclusively represent the business in The Netherlands and we 
are already seeing new opportunities for business in that region. 
We have also continued to expand on our existing product offering 
including our new range of E-Paper technology that generated its 
first sales during the year.
The final objective is an intention to differentiate the business from 
its competitors by offering either internally developed products or 
by providing additional services. During the year we have opened 
an Optical Bonding facility in Taiwan that will enable the business 
Densitron AR2012.indd   6 21/05/2013   14:03:17 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
7
www.densitron.com
Stock Code: DSN
Share Price
02/01/2012
02/02/2012
02/03/2012
02/04/2012
02/05/2012
02/06/2012
02/07/2012
02/08/2012
02/09/2012
02/10/2012
02/11/2012
02/12/2012
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Dividends
An interim dividend of 0.2p per share was paid to Shareholders 
in September 2012. Considering the results for the full year I 
think it is appropriate to propose a final dividend for the year 
of 0.1p per share (2011: 0.4p per share) resulting in a total 
dividend payment for the year of 0.3p per share (2011: 0.6p 
per share). This represents a return to Shareholders of 85% of 
profit for the year (2011: 51%). The Board remains committed 
to paying dividends to its Shareholders but will do so taking into 
account the requirements of the Group to ensure continued and 
sustained growth.
Claim against the Company
I reported in my statement in the 2011 Annual Report that the 
Company had received a writ in respect of unpaid rents on a 
property occupied by a former Group Company. Having reviewed 
all of the documentation surrounding the lease, some of which 
dates back more than 10 years with our Lawyers, we believe 
that there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the lease. We 
believe that the most appropriate way forward is to achieve a 
negotiated settlement with the Landlord to bring this matter to a 
close in order to avoid further substantial costs accruing on both 
sides and to make it possible to let the property which currently 
stands empty. At this stage we are unable to say at what level 
that settlement would be achieved. More details of the writ are 
discussed in note 29 of the accounts on page 49.
Outlook and strategy
The Board regularly reviews the medium and long term strategy 
for the business and believes the main driver of the business 
should remain organic growth. I have already written about the 
strategy in my review of the business above and consider that 
the results from this strategy have yet to be realised to their 
maximum potential.
During the year, through internal development, we have added 
two potentially significant revenue streams with the Optical 
Bonding line and Ripdraw  software and smart TFT Line. We 
begin 2013 with little or no revenue from these two new products 
but consider that the demand for optical bonding in particular will 
grow rapidly during the year. However, we expect that Ripdraw  
will take longer to generate significant levels of business due to 
its complexity and consider that revenues will start to be made in 
the second half of the year and beyond.
The addition of an office in India provides a great opportunity 
for the business but it is a difficult market so it is taking time to 
develop. At the beginning of 2013 we have a good pipeline of 
business opportunities and we expect to see those opportunities 
being turned into orders and revenues during the current year.
Overall the first four months of the year have been mixed with 
parts of the Group exceeding expectations while other parts 
have found closing business to be particularly difficult. The 
pipeline of new business remains strong and we expect to see 
this being converted into new orders over the next few months. 
We have addressed certain operational issues which should 
mean that the business is more focussed and able to support its 
customers more effectively going forward.
I would like to thank the Directors and staff throughout the Group 
for their continued dedication during what has turned out to be  
a very difficult year. Despite the difficulties of 2012 the Group is  
in a far better position to move forward than it was even three 
years ago.
Finally I would like to thank the Company's Shareholders for their 
continued support.
Jan G Holmstrom
Chairman
21st May 2013
Densitron AR2012.indd   7 21/05/2013   14:03:17