 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman's statement 
Once again I am pleased 
to report on a year of 
progress in the business. 
In a period when the 
emphasis began to switch 
from recovery to growth, 
operating profit before 
exceptional items increased 
39.4% compared to 2009. 
Strong cash generation 
has enabled a further 
reduction in net debt to 
 12.2 million even after 
investing  26.9 million in 
capital expenditure during 
the year. As a result of this 
continuing strong financial 
performance, the Board 
is recommending a final 
dividend of 5.0 pence, 
bringing the full year 
dividend to 7.0 pence per 
share, a 40% increase.
Financial highlights
Reported revenue for 2010 was  237.0 
million (2009:  220.4 million), an increase 
of 7.5%. On a constant currency basis, 
revenue would have increased by 5.5% to 
 232.5 million. 
Operating profit before exceptional items 
increased by 39.4% to  38.2 million 
(2009:  27.4 million). The operating 
margin increased from 12.4% to 16.1%, 
reflecting higher prices and a more 
efficient manufacturing cost base. 
Adverse weather in December 2010 
caused problems in our UK, US and 
Australian plants, reducing operating 
profit by approximately  0.6 million 
through lower sales, higher costs and 
lost production. 
Movements in foreign exchange had a net 
beneficial impact of  1.9 million on 
operating profit. Of this,  1.2 million was 
the translation impact of a stronger 
Australian dollar. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
rose 44.4% to  36.3 million (2009:  25.1 
million). Pre-tax profit including exceptional 
items was  55.2 million in 2010 against 
 26.9 million in 2009. 
During 2010, after consultation with our 
employees and pensioners, certain 
changes were agreed to the UK defined 
benefit pension scheme. These changes 
resulted in a reduction in the total liabilities 
of the scheme, giving rise to a credit of 
 18.9 million, which has been treated as 
an exceptional item. This reduction in 
liabilities meant that the year end deficit for 
the group schemes was reduced to  13.4 
million (2009:  31.8 million) and helps 
secure the future benefit for pension 
scheme members.
Basic earnings per share before 
exceptional items for 2010 was 17.4p,  
up 48.7% compared with 11.7p in 2009.
Net interest cost fell during the year to 
 0.7 million (2009:  0.8 million), reflecting 
lower average debt during 2010. 
Net finance expense on pension assets 
and liabilities amounted to  1.2 million 
compared with  1.4 million in 2009.
Net debt reduced to  12.2 million (2009: 
 15.6 million). This reduction in net debt 
reflects the continued improvement in 
Steve Hannam Chairman
operating performance and return on assets, 
and was achieved after a significantly 
increased spend on fixed assets of  26.9 
million (2009:  19.5 million).
Business
During the year the group was able to 
build on the solid progress made over 
the previous years, which had been 
very much focused on recovery. New 
products have been launched and there 
has been investment in new capacity, 
while we continue to improve 
throughput and yields. There remains 
an emphasis on the pricing of products 
and we continue the trend to higher 
margin sales.
Against a background of more stable raw 
material availability and energy pricing, all 
the operating sites performed well, with a 
significant improvement in the US. Our 
Jilemnice plant in the Czech Republic also 
benefited from a full year of upgraded, 
more efficient lines, which replaced our 
lines in Korenov.
The two key drivers for our business remain 
the growth of meat consumption in 
emerging markets, and the conversion of 
sausage casings from gut to collagen in 
both established and developing markets. 
These combined gave an estimated growth 
in the global (excluding China) edible 
collagen market of approximately 4% in 
2010. We experienced sales growth in 
most of our markets, with the exception of 
China, where we took a conscious decision 
to reduce sales to satisfy strong demand 
elsewhere. Excluding China, our sales 
volumes were up 11% compared to 2009.
Demand for collagen casings is growing 
rapidly in China, and we are looking 
carefully at strategic ways to approach 
that market. To bring focus to this task, 
one of our most experienced directors is 
relocating to Hong Kong to dedicate time 
and exploit opportunities in China and 
South East Asia.
The demand for our product is such 
that, of the capital expenditure in the 
year of  26.9m,  14 million related to 
increased capacity. New lines have been 
brought on stream in the Czech 
Republic and Australia, and existing lines 
in Scotland are being upgraded. To 
cope with demand, it is expected that 
capital expenditure will increase to 
approximately  45 million in 2011,  
04 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
05
with further investment across all our 
manufacturing sites. The full benefit of 
this investment is expected to be seen  
in 2012 and 2013. Many of the projects 
involve upgrading or replacing existing 
older lines, an approach which not only 
increases capacity but enhances return 
on capital.
The trend to replace gut casings with 
collagen has been helped by the launch 
of our Select range of products. These 
have been specifically developed to 
replicate the characteristics of gut whilst 
providing efficiencies for the sausage 
producers. Different products in the 
range are now being produced on 
existing equipment in Scotland and the 
Czech Republic. A good level of gut 
conversion has continued to take place 
in Latin America, Japan and Russia, 
whilst Select has achieved satisfactory 
sales in Europe.
Safety
It is disappointing that, given the 
emphasis on safety, the number of Lost 
Working Day Injuries increased to 13 in 
2010 (2009: 7), though this is the second 
best performance of the last 10 years. 
The total number of injuries requiring 
medical treatment was the same as in the 
previous year.
Monitored by the Health and Safety 
Committee, safety has continued to 
have a high profile across the group.  
A range of training programmes are in 
place and a number of specific actions 
have been taken to improve working 
practices and conditions. Both internal 
and external audits have been used to 
identify potential issues and improve our 
approach to health and safety. We 
continue to work towards our target of 
Zero safety incidents .
Employees
A further successful year is due in great 
part to the commitment shown by Devro 
employees. The improved performance in 
both operations and the markets in which 
we sell reflects this commitment and the 
Board would like to thank all the members 
of the Devro team for their efforts in 2010. 
As mentioned last year, the business is 
becoming more global and there is 
increasing need for a unified approach to 
the market. In the last year there has been 
increased interaction between our 
locations to ensure that we learn from 
each other. This has included the 
progressing of our new ERP system,  
the development of best manufacturing 
techniques, health and safety, marketing 
approaches, new developments and 
increasingly the transfer of technology 
across the group. These initiatives will 
become more common as we strive to 
ensure that Devro is prepared for 
continued success on the world stage.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
5.0 pence per share (2009: 3.575 pence), 
bringing the total for the year to 7.0 pence 
per share (2009: 5.0 pence). The dividend 
will be paid on 6 May 2011 to those 
shareholders on the register on 1 April 
2011. Last year was the first increase in 
dividend payment in four years, and the 
recommended dividend this year reflects 
the improvements in performance and 
financial strength of the group. The Board 
retains its policy of reviewing the amount 
distributed annually with the intent of 
moving dividends in line with underlying 
earnings, whilst taking into account the 
future prospects and cash requirements of 
the business.
Board changes
In December 2010 Peter Williams 
announced he would be retiring from the 
Board in early 2011. Peter has been 
Finance Director since joining Devro in 
May 2008 and has contributed to the 
business during a period of significant 
improvement in financial strength and 
performance. We all wish him a long and 
happy retirement.
On 17 January 2011 Simon Webb joined 
the Board as Finance Director Designate. 
Following a transition period to allow 
thorough familiarisation and a professional 
hand-over of responsibilities, he will 
become Group Finance Director on 7 April 
2011 when Peter retires. Simon, a 
chartered accountant, brings with him 
considerable experience of managing a 
finance function within international 
businesses. His senior finance positions 
have included Threadneedle, BAT plc, 
Paxar plc, Enodis plc, and most recently 
De La Rue plc where he was Group 
Finance Director.
Outlook
Operating within a growing market with 
new products and increasing capacity, 
Devro can look forward to further growth 
and efficiency improvements in all its 
operations. Longer term, the strength of 
our balance sheet gives us confidence 
that we will be able to take advantage of 
growth opportunities as they arise.
Steve Hannam Chairman