 03
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business Review Directors' Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Chairman's statement
2013 will be another busy year as we take 
action to mitigate rising input costs, 
continue our capital programme, and step 
up our investment in people and 
infrastructure. This will ensure that we are 
well positioned to take advantage of the 
market to create long term profitable growth 
for Devro.
With the continued positive outlook in our 
markets and anticipated growth from our 
investments the Board is recommending a 
final dividend of 5.85 pence per share, 
bringing the full year dividend to 8.5 pence 
per share, a 6.3% increase.
Financial highlights
Overall demand was strong during 2012 in 
both developed and emerging markets, 
with limitations in capacity and adverse 
exchange movements the key constraints 
to more rapid growth. Revenue grew by 
5.9% to  241.1 million, or 8.1% on a 
constant currency basis.
Operating profit grew by 1.3% to  43.2 
million, but was held back by increases in 
input costs which will be recovered by 
further price increases in 2013. Operating 
profit was also adversely impacted by 
exchange movements and on a constant 
currency basis grew by 5.2%.
Basic earnings per share excluding pension 
interest was 20.7p, up by 2.2% compared 
to 20.2p in 2011.
Net debt rose by  3.4 million to  26.1 
million at the end of 2012 (2011:  22.7 
million), after funding  33 million of capital 
investments during the year, which is in line 
with our expectations.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
5.85 pence per share (2011: 5.5 pence) 
bringing the total for the year to 8.5 pence 
per share (2011: 8.0 pence). The dividend 
will be paid on 3 May 2013 to those on the 
register on 2 April 2013. The increase in the 
dividend reflects the Board's confidence in 
the group and its financial strength.
The Board retains its policy of reviewing the 
amount distributed annually with the intent 
of moving dividends in line with underlying 
earnings, whilst taking into account the 
future prospects and cash requirements  
of the business.
Business
Sales
Developed markets
In developed markets sales of edible 
collagen casings increased by 8.0% during 
the year with some variability in demand 
compared to previous years. The USA and 
Western Europe showed increases, whilst 
Australasia was flat and the UK decreased. 
Our main action in these markets has been 
to broaden our offering with our Select 
range of products. These products, 
launched two years ago, have been 
developed to replace sheep gut in premium 
sausages. Initial demand came from 
Northern Europe and Japan and this has 
continued to develop with Japan, in 
particular, showing strong growth. In the 
last year, sales have been building in the 
conservative German market with 
considerable opportunities for growth in  
the coming year. In 2012 sales of Select 
represented 8.4% of our total sales 
compared to 4.3% in 2011.
The majority of our sales (87%), and our 
focus, is on edible collagen products.  
Sales of non-edible collagen decreased  
in the year. Sales of collagen gel into 
non-competing markets in the USA  
showed some growth year on year with  
the development of new applications.
Emerging markets
In emerging markets, sales of edible 
collagen casings grew by 7.8% during the 
year where demand is being driven by 
economic expansion and the resulting 
increase in meat consumption, particularly 
in the form of processed product. There is 
also some conversion from gut casings to 
collagen in these markets.
Latin America showed revenue growth of 
30% in the year for edible collagen casings, 
and a renewed sales approach continues  
to bring us further opportunities.
Eastern Europe and Russia also grew 
strongly with edible collagen casing volume 
growth of 6% helped by the additional 
capacity from Bellshill brought online during 
the year.
We continue to review our options with 
respect to China. It remains a large and 
growing, but low priced market, where we 
are currently developing strategic sales and 
customer relationships.
Margin
The operating margin was 17.9% (2011: 
18.7%) which was adversely impacted by 
increased input costs and movement in 
exchange rates, primarily related to the 
weakening of the euro against sterling. 
Steve Hannam 
Chairman
In 2012, Devro delivered a further year of growth in 
line with our strategy and, despite some challenges, 
we increased revenue and operating profit.  
At the same time we continued to invest significant capital in our production facilities  
to increase capacity and upgrade our technology, funded through our cash resources. 
The prospects for our markets are good. Our Select range of products provides us  
with growth opportunities in developed markets whilst economic trends and growing 
urbanisation continue to drive sales in emerging markets.  04
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Adjusted for the adverse movement in 
exchange rates the operating margin for 
2012 was 18.2%.
Part way through the year the price of raw 
materials rose in line with the market and 
this, together with higher energy costs, 
increased our cost of sales by approximately 
 5.8 million which was not recouped 
through higher selling prices in the period. 
Raw material costs are expected to continue 
to rise and further selling price increases are 
being implemented in early 2013. 
Production line upgrading and subsequent 
commissioning resulted in a rise in operating 
costs which also impacted operating margin 
in 2012. With a significant proportion of the 
work now completed, the benefits of the 
production upgrades should begin to show 
through in the latter part of 2013.
Capital investment programme
Our on-going capital investment programme, 
which has been mainly aimed at replacing 
older lines with modern high speed lines to 
deliver cost savings and increased output, 
has been a major feature in 2012. A total of 
 33 million was invested during the year.
There is expected to be further investment of 
up to  35 million in 2013. The largest project 
will be the completion of the production 
upgrade at our facility in Jilemnice in the 
Czech Republic.
This capital investment programme has 
delivered 7% growth in output in 2012, and 
is expected to deliver a further 8% growth in 
2013.
Return on capital employed has dipped to 
19.5% in 2012 from 21.5% in 2011, and is 
expected to strengthen over the medium 
term as the full benefits of the investments 
flow through.
Scotland
Although the majority of the investment was 
made in 2011, the new lines were 
completed and commissioned during 2012. 
The project involved replacing some of the 
oldest lines in Scotland with high speed lines 
based on the technology used in our Czech 
facility. The commissioning phase took three 
months longer than anticipated but the lines 
are now running well and the output is being 
sold in Continental Europe.
Australia
The natural gas powered co-generation 
plant installed in our Bathurst site was 
successfully commissioned during the year 
delivering energy cost savings.
A number of lines in Australia were upgraded 
to produce further Select product for Japan. 
This involved modifications being carried out 
within an operating manufacturing plant 
which is a challenging task. The engineering 
work was completed safely and on time.  
The upgraded lines are now running and 
progress continues to be made on improving 
performance.
Czech Republic
The largest project in the year has been  
the conversion of the original edible casing 
manufacturing hall to high-speed lines. This 
involves replacing the old equipment with 
proven new technology within an existing 
infrastructure. Once again the facility is being 
upgraded whilst operational. In 2012 half the 
lines were upgraded and successfully 
commissioned. The remaining half will be 
converted in 2013.
USA
The USA facility has a different 
manufacturing process compared with  
the other plants, and there is a sizeable 
opportunity to improve efficiency and costs. 
In 2011 a line using our most recent 
technology was installed in the USA to trial 
the manufacture of products suited to the 
Americas market. The pilot took most of 
2012 to convert local collagen into suitable 
products on a commercial basis and trials 
will continue in 2013. Further work is 
planned in 2013 to evaluate the opportunity 
and potential returns of a substantial 
investment to replace the existing 
technology.
Safety
Safety management continues to have a 
high profile throughout the company and 
there is regular contact between the Board 
Safety Committee and local teams. During 
the year, in order to refresh its approach, 
Paul Withers took over the Chairmanship  
of the Board Safety Committee.
The commitment across the group was 
rewarded during the year with employee lost 
time accidents reduced from 10 to 4 and 
lost days reduced from 287 to 156.
Employees
The continued growth and the changes 
across the group have necessitated 
considerable commitment from staff at all 
levels. It has been pleasing to see 
international teams working together to 
resolve challenges presented by the capital 
investment programme and to improve 
standards of operation.
The global team which installed the ERP 
system during 2011 has continued to work 
together to deliver the expected benefits 
from the system.
With the continued growth prospects of the 
group it is necessary to ensure that we have 
adequate resources available. To this end an 
extensive training and development plan has 
been implemented, supplemented where 
necessary by recruitment.
The Board once again gives its thanks to all 
employees for their efforts and commitment 
wherever they are in the world. 
Board appointments
Jane Lodge joined the Board on 1 March 
2012 and took over the role of Audit 
Committee Chair on 19 April 2012 replacing 
Stuart Paterson.
Outlook
The demand in our markets remains strong. 
Our Select range of products provides us 
with growth opportunities in developed 
markets while economic growth and 
increased urbanisation continue to drive 
sales in emerging markets. Our ongoing 
capital investment programme and 
investment in people and infrastructure 
means we are increasingly well positioned  
to take advantage of the market to create 
long term profitable growth for Devro.
Steve Hannam
Chairman
Chairman's statement continued