 Shareholder 
Information 
Corporate 
Profile 
Management 
Report 
Independent Auditor's 
Report 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
Company  
Financial Statements 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
2 | Annual Report 2006  
Letters to our Shareholders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear shareholders, 
As Dialog Semiconductor's Chief Executive 
Officer, I welcome this opportunity to up-
date you on our company's progress in this 
last year and to offer you our outlook for 
the medium term.  
This time last year I indicated that Dialog 
would be able to pursue a number of higher 
growth opportunities in the mobile phone, 
consumer electronics and automotive sys-
tems markets, providing our company was 
properly positioned to embrace these op-
portunities.  
During 2006 your Board has worked hard 
to prepare and position Dialog for such 
growth. We have invested significant re-
sources in these efforts, working directly 
with a number of lead customers to gain 
further traction within important growth 
markets.  
In the previous communications I have also 
pointed to a number of key challenges 
facing Dialog in the years ahead, namely: 
 Customer concentration 
 Improving our cost platform 
 Strengthening the Board and manage-
ment 
 Focusing product and sales on higher 
growth markets 
In line with our strategy, I am pleased to 
report that we have made significant pro-
gress this year in addressing these chal-
lenges. 
Firstly, our decision in September 2006 to 
transition our final test operations from 
Germany to off-shore subcontractors in 
Asia has provided Dialog with a key plat-
form on which we can build a scaleable 
business; avoid capital expenditure on big 
ticket test equipment; and improve our 
total manufacturing cycle time. 
We have steadily gained new customer 
design wins in Asia and North America 
during the year, whilst at the same time  
broadening our focus beyond the main-
stream cell-phone segment to include 
smart-phones as well as other lithium-ion 
battery operated consumer products.  
We have also attracted significant industry 
talent and expertise to Dialog, strengthen-
ing our capacity to deliver on our strategy 
and building further management depth in 
our newly formed Business Units as well as 
Field Applications, Product Marketing and 
Finance functions. 
Against this backdrop of strategic reposi-
tioning, FY 2006 was - as forecast - disap-
pointing in terms of financial performance. 
In addition to our strategic decision to 
reduce Dialog's exposure to volatile and 
unprofitable commodity LCD driver mar-
kets, which resulted in inventory write-
downs, the main contributors to this per-
formance were the unforeseen insolvency 
of our major wireless customer - BenQ 
Mobile GmbH, plus the delay in mobile 
phone market transition from 2G to 3G 
technology. 
Shareholder Information  Shareholder 
Information 
Corporate 
Profile 
Management 
Report 
Independent Auditor's 
Report 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
Company  
Financial Statements 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Annual Report 2006 | 3 
In the fourth quarter 2006, we also decided 
to de-list the Company from the NASDAQ 
stock exchange. Given the very low volume 
of trading in Dialog ADRs on NASDAQ, 
this decision will help in simplifying the 
complexity of our financial reporting and 
reducing our costs.  
The decision to offshore our test operations 
as well as the decision to de-list from 
NASDAQ prove Dialog's commitment to 
create a lower cost platform for growth in 
light of these challenges.  Given the tough 
competitive environment in 2006, we con-
tinue to improve business practices and 
operational efficiencies. As a result Dialog 
enters 2007 with low inventory, zero debt 
and a higher level of cash than with which 
it started 2006. 
During the year Dialog has focused its R&D 
effort on producing world-class technology, 
in the shape of an increasingly broad base 
of products, from which to generate future 
returns for its shareholders.  Furthermore, 
Dialog has not just maintained but has 
expanded its relationship base to count 
some of the industry's best names amongst 
its partners and customers.  
Whilst our 2G products reached end of life 
in 2006, resulting in a sharp drop in Wire-
less product sales for the year, we have 
developed a growing portfolio of highly 
integrated power management and audio 
products for 3G/HSDPA mobile phones and 
application processor based Smart Phones 
with several tier 1 customers. In addition, 
we have produced new power management 
and innovative low power display drivers 
for portable consumer electronics markets. 
This range of new products in both estab-
lished and emerging sectors will provide 
the company with new growth opportuni-
ties from the second half of 2007. 
Our portfolio of Automotive and Industrial 
products covering highly integrated smart 
motor controllers and electronic lamp 
ballast products produced solid revenues in 
2006, in line with expectations. Throughout 
the year we achieved further custom IC 
design wins, with both new and existing 
customers, bolstering our confidence that 
these products will continue to provide a 
dependable and growing revenue stream in 
the years ahead. 
Going forward, we will continue our efforts 
to fine-tune Dialog's strategy and make 
changes to ensure that the company is well 
positioned to deliver sustainable growth in 
revenue and profits for the benefit of all 
our shareholders. For the remainder of 
2007 our focus will be on developing and 
implementing the following strategic ac-
tions: 
 
 Create further Application Specific 
Standard Products. Our focus will be to 
partner with complimentary lead play-
ers in each segment such as Smart 
Phones, Multimedia and GPS and lever-
age these new channels to market. 
 Maintain and extend our lead in power 
management, HiFi audio, and high volt-
age mixed signal Systems on Chip 
(SOC). 
 Extend our sales, marketing and techni-
cal support to clients outside Europe 
with a focus on US, Japan, and the Asia 
Pacific region. 
 Consolidate the cost gains from transi-
tion to a complete fabless model with 
our subcontractor partners. 
 Continue to recruit the industry's best 
talent in order to ensure Dialog's con-
tinued progress and further improve 
Dialog's ability to realise its potential. 
 
Creating sustainable shareholder value lies 
at the very heart of our strategy and to this 
end we view sustainable profitable growth 
as a key objective. Dialog is now a more 
focused company in terms of its fabless 
business model.  Dialog's exploitation of 
our core competency of power and energy 
management positions us well in the key 
growth segments of the market, pointing to 
improved gross product margins for the 
longer term. 
Crucially 2006 was a year of strategic 
change at Dialog; change which we con-
tinue to consolidate. Your Board sees 2007 
as a year of execution and growth, al-
though we expect 1H07 market conditions 
to follow those seen in 4Q06. In 2007 we 
will be building on the strategic changes 
we have already made and moving towards 
sustainable growth for the long term.   Shareholder 
Information 
Corporate 
Profile 
Management 
Report 
Independent Auditor's 
Report 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
Company  
Financial Statements 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
4 | Annual Report 2006  
I am extremely impressed with the profes-
sionalism and dedication displayed by our 
employees throughout this year of change 
and - as a result of their efforts - I have 
confidence in Dialog's future. 
Sincerely yours, 
 
Dr. Jalal Bagherli, CEO 
Dear Shareholders, 
 
The Board of Dialog is acutely aware that 
2006 was a difficult and disappointing year 
for the Company.   
 
During the course of the year the Board has 
sought to encourage, evaluate and monitor 
the changes required in the Company.  As a 
result significant changes have been made; 
both strategic, such as ceasing involvement 
in standard displays and the spin-out of the 
camera division, and operational, such as 
the outsourcing of testing and other opera-
tions.   
 
Dr. Jalal Bagherli has been tenacious and 
tireless in his efforts to implement change. 
With a great deal of understanding com-
bined with a sense of urgency he has 
brought the senior executives and employ-
ees with him on this journey and they are 
now equally enthused by the change proc-
ess and fully supporting him in his efforts.  
As a result I am excited about our pros-
pects.  That said, 2007 also will be a year of 
transition towards achievement of the 
Company's strategic goals and of producing 
long-term sustainable profitable growth. 
 
Change in the Company in 2006 has not 
just been confined to strategic and opera-
tional issues; albeit that these changes are 
key to our future success. In line with an 
overall review of the Company there have 
been other significant changes. 
 
2006 has seen important new appointments 
to the Board with Peter Weber, Peter Tan, 
Russ Shaw and Chris Burke joining.  I am 
delighted that such high calibre individuals 
have joined us. They are each enthused by 
the prospects of supporting our CEO in his 
turn around in the fortunes of the Com-
pany. 
 
In 2006 we de-listed from NASDAQ.  We 
are sorry to lose some of our US sharehold-
ers. Some, I am delighted to say, remain 
with us on the Frankfurt exchange. 
 
The decision to de-list from NASDAQ was 
not taken lightly. The Board considered 
that the financial resource required to 
comply with the increasing regulatory 
burden of the listing could be more profita-
bly utilised in seeking to achieve our stra-
tegic goals.  More importantly, the in-
creased management time ensuring regula-
tory compliance was felt a distraction from 
the key task of implementing the changes 
required in the Company. 
 
The Company appreciates the importance of 
business controls and checks and is com-
mitted to having suitable control processes 
in place throughout its operations.  
 
My message to you, our shareholders, is 
that whilst 2006 was a difficult and disap-
pointing year and 2007 will see further 
transition, the Company is being reposi-
tioned to achieve future sustainable growth 
and enhanced shareholder value.   
 
 
Greg Reyes 
Chairman 