 DiamondCorp plc
UK Company Registration No. 5400982
South African Company Registration No. 2007/031444/10
Audited Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
Letter from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholder
Since we last wrote to you there have been major advances in our development of the Lace underground mine. Located in the Free State of
South Africa, Lace is some two hours drive from Johannesburg on good tarred roads. The mine, which now employs almost 300 people, is
connected to the main Eskom power grid and has an independent integrated water supply. We had commissioned a 1.2 million tonne per
annum (mtpa) diamond recovery plant at Lace in 2007. Last year that plant resumed the processing of old tailings and has been modified to
treat kimberlite ore from underground. Your company owns 74% of the project with our BEE partners, Shanduka Resources (13%) and Sphere
Investments (13%) holding the balance.
Underground mine development
At the end of 2012, we completed a ZAR320 million financing for the 47 Level block cave development, including new underground ramps,
ventilation shafts, crusher and conveyor systems. In late January 2013, work started and by the year-end, underground tunnel development
was 15% complete and was being achieved at 94% of the budgeted cost per metre. Hiring of additional mining crews continued after year end
and the full underground complement was reached by the end of March 2014.
The Company has experienced no labour issues and continues to hire the personnel it requires. Safety remains a major priority for the
Company, with Lace achieving a 39% improvement in the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) from 0.90 in 2012 to 0.55 per 200,000
manhours in 2013. Management aims for zero harm to its employees and targets, a LTIFR of less than 0.50.
The underground mining fleet continues to provide near 90% availability, with operating costs running at 95% of budget. The mining fleet
rebuild costs are also running at 95% of budget. The last two rebuilt 20 tonne low profile dump trucks, required to achieve maximum
underground development rates, were commissioned on time during the year. The last two underground loaders were being assembled at year
end and since then one has been commissioned with the other to be operational in coming weeks.
At year end, twin decline development from the base of the boxcut was continuing downwards to meet the development tunnels coming up
from the 92m level and installation of the steel sets for reinforcement of the portal area was complete. The two sets of tunnels are expected to
join up in October 2014.
The design and detailed drawings for the underground conveyor belt system was on schedule (85% complete) and under budget. Fabrication of
the first leg of the conveyor to be installed was completed and delivered to site; fabrication at year-end of the second leg was 40% complete.
During the current year, the conveyor belt will be commissioned from the 200m level to surface, and will then be progressively installed down to
the 470m level as development progresses.
In 2013, we bought a new Boart Longyear diamond drilling rig which is now being used underground. The initial drilling programme aimed at
better defining the rim of the Main Pipe for finalised cave layout and definition of the  Bulge' area. In the process of this drilling, much more
high-grade K4 kimberlite (CK or coherent kimberlite) was intersected on the western side of the pipe above the 345m level than was projected
in the Lace geological model.  This Upper K4 unit has now been defined over an area of approximately 75m x 75m on the 250m level, and is
being actively delineated above and below to add to the resource base.
No kimberlite above the 345m level is included in the current mine plan, as definition drilling from surface was not possible due to the presence
of old workings. The Upper K4 Block (UK4) now being defined has the potential to add at least 1.0 million tonnes of additional kimberlite to the
Lace mine plan which can be mined while the 47 Level Block Cave development progresses and will form part of an upgraded resource
statement in 2014.
Diamond recovery plant
During 2013, we re-commissioned the 1.2mtpa Lace diamond recovery plant, including optimising bottom screen sizes to maximise operating
margins. Our first diamond sale since mid-2009 was a parcel of 6,442 carats which was concluded in Antwerp last November. The sale
included the first diamonds sold to Tiffany & Co. subsidiary Laurelton Diamonds Inc. under the Company's offtake agreement. Regular sales
will continue this year as we ramp up retreatment of the remaining 2.3 million tonnes of tailings. These will be treated over the next few years
alongside increasing tonnage of kimberlite from underground development. The plant is now configured to treat both tailings and kimberlite ore.
Corporate actions
The Company is very cost conscious on all levels and the London office is no exception. During 2013, as activities accelerated at the Lace
mine, we relocated the Company's finance function to South Africa to operate alongside the mining department. In July, we recruited Sanette
De Wet as Chief Financial Officer and we recently announced the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Group auditors. Sanette,
who lives near Lace, has experience in the diamond sector and will work closely with the PwC office in Kimberley which has long standing
connections with South African diamond producers.
To further bolster our South African team, we are pleased that leading mining attorney, Hulme Scholes joined us as a Non-Executive director
last August. He has helped the Company since its creation and brings a wealth of experience to the Board.
As well as changing auditors, we reviewed the role of all our advisors. In London, we appointed Panmure Gordon & Co. as Nominated Advisor
and sole broker while in South Africa we have retained Sasfin Capital as our AltX Designated Advisor and broker.
4 DiamondCorp plc
UK Company Registration No. 5400982
South African Company Registration No. 2007/031444/10
Audited Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
Letter from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
In March this year, we completed an oversubscribed share placing to existing and new shareholders which raised  2.1million before costs for
corporate overheads and head office costs. We do not anticipate further fund raisings before Lace is in full production and loans to
DiamondCorp plc can be repaid.
Diamond prices
Rough diamond prices fell during 2013 in response to the weakening Indian rupee and continuing tight credit markets for cutters and polishers.
Polished prices on the other hand improved in response to improving economic conditions, particularly in the US, which remains the largest
single market for diamond jewellery.  This was a healthy development as earlier increases in rough prices had not been matched at the retail
end which had the potential to destabilise the market.
Since year end, the improving market for polished diamonds, with diamond jewellery sales up 5% in the US in the first two months of the year
and Chinese jeweller Chow Tai Fook experiencing a 14% increase in demand in Q1, has flowed across to the rough market, as rough prices
have improved by around 5%. The Company is forecasting the market to be steady to modestly higher for the balance of 2014, with potential
for price strengthening in 2015 as world economies continue to recover.
Company strategy
In our letter to you last year, we noted that we are continually looking for other diamond opportunities to build DiamondCorp into a mid-tier
producer. That search continued during 2013 and for the last few months but despite reviewing a number of projects in Africa nothing has
cleared our stringent political risk hurdles or reached the economic threshold that we seek. Despite the stabilisation of the financial markets, we
note that the investors remain risk averse and increasingly focused on larger companies. We are strong believers in the attractions of the
diamond sector over coming years and with our experienced team will continue our efforts to build the Company but for now our attention is
firmly focused on the development of Lace.
In conclusion
It is difficult to convey in words the great advances which we have made at Lace in the past 15 months and we hope you can get a better
flavour from some of the photographs and presentations on the Company website at www.diamondcorp.plc.uk. We are now a mining company
and diamond producer well on the way to unlocking the treasure chest underground at the Lace mine while seeking other opportunities to build
our Company into a strong and profitable mid-tier diamond miner. We continue to believe that the outlook for diamond prices is very positive
particularly with growing demand from developing countries such as China and India. On the supply side, major new mines are not being
discovered, older mines are having to develop underground usually with lower output, new mine developments such as GahchoKue in Canada
are suffering delays and perhaps most significantly output from the Marange fields in Zimbabwe looks likely to fall sharply. All these factors are
not helping to meet the growing demand for diamonds that we and industry observers expect.
We would like to thank all our advisors and consultants, past and present, for helping us to reach this position but most importantly our
workforce at Lace. The future is positive and by this time next year we intend to be producing diamonds from fresh kimberlite.
Euan Worthington Paul Loudon
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
5