 A stable balance sheet, a drive to enhance efficiencies and a
successful focus on working capital management were highlights
of the period under review. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 9
Introduction 
The year under review has been
characterised by continuing challenging
global trading conditions. Dimension Data
has responded by improving our strategic
and operational focus, enhancing the
management team and delivery
capabilities, and further cutting costs
whilst maintaining investment in the
evolution of our business model.
At the start of fiscal year 2003, Dimension
Data embarked on a programme of
standardising the way we operate across
the globe. The DD Way, our internal
change programme, forced us to examine
and better understand what drives our
organisation internally. It was also the
catalyst for a focus on transitioning the
Group into a more customer-centric,
outward-looking organisation. This has
resulted in a marked improvement in the
way in which Dimension Data engages
with customers, suppliers and staff.
This external focus on our customers,
combined with the standardisation of our
delivery capabilities globally, has
reinforced the Dimension Data brand as 
a global provider of managed and
professional services. The growing
recognition of Dimension Data's brand
and the Group's capabilities are reflected
in the quality of our business wins over
the past year. These include new contracts
with several well-known global customers,
such as Allianz, Airbus and a leading
global courier company. Enhanced
offerings and strong customer
relationships have also enabled us to
penetrate our existing customer base
further, as evidenced by clients such as
HSBC and a global pharmaceutical
company, where we significantly extended
the scope of existing contracts.
Globalisation has seen many of our
customers evolve from decentralised
regional operations into centralised global
businesses. Customers increasingly prefer
dealing with IT partners who offer global
solutions and services that help maximise
return on their investments. This trend has
contributed to the consolidation we have
seen in the IT industry in the past year. In
this environment, our global footprint is
vital to our customer engagement strategy.
It allows us to service our global
customers locally and to understand and
capitalise on their IT strategies. In
addition, we are increasingly working with
key alliance partners such as Cisco and
EMC to understand the IT requirements of
their global customer base.
Period under review
Convergence of IT environments
continues to fuel our Application Network
vision. Further progress has been made in
improving the competitive position of the
business by refining our solution sets and
tightening our focus on five focused lines
of business - Network Integration,
chairman's statement 10 DIMENSION DATA
Application Integration, Platform Solutions,
Customer Interactive Solutions and
Security Solutions. We forged closer
relationships with key vendors and
continued to invest in solution sales and
delivery capabilities.
The challenging economic environment
during the year forced us to take a critical
look at both our skills sets and
management capabilities. The significant
personnel changes that we have made
over the past 18 months, which have seen
key new appointments made in a number
of regions, have resulted in a broader and
stronger management team, an improved
skills base and a better ability to sell and
deliver services and solutions.
We have also focused on improving
efficiencies in our core Network
Integration business in recognition of the
fact that products will always form a key
part of our solutions offering. This being
said, we remain committed to our target to
grow our services offering to more than
50% of turnover in the medium term.
After a number of years of pressure on
product margins, some pricing stability
started to emerge in the second half of
the year. However, services margins, whilst
still significantly more attractive than
product margins, have come under
pressure, largely due to lower demand
and an oversupply of skills.
Given the highly competitive trading and
price environment, the process of
aggressively addressing our cost base
continued in the period under review. Over
the year we cut costs in constant currency
terms across all regions although due to
the fact that we report in US dollars, this
is not apparent in our financial results. The
SA rand, Australian dollar, Euro and
Sterling foreign exchange rates
strengthened against the average US
dollar rate by 42%, 21%, 20% and 8%
respectively over the year. The benefits of
the cost-cutting measures taken have
yielded very pleasing results in the UK
and Australia where profitability ratios
improved significantly year on year.
The South African business reported a
disappointing performance in the second
half of the year. Profitability was
negatively impacted by lower volumes in
the Application Integration and Service
Provider businesses as well as by the
strength of the SA rand which had the
effect of reducing margins in dollar-based
contracts. Management has addressed
key internal issues and is focused on
improving profitability in 2004.
The turnaround plans in both our Asian
and US businesses yielded satisfactory
results in the second half. With evidence
of a stronger business outlook in both of
these regions, we are confident that
profitability will continue to improve in the
new financial year. Although we have a
small share of the US market, we remain
committed to our presence there and see
it as vital to be able to service
multinational and global customers, many
of whom have head offices in the US.
A highlight of the year was the
improvement in the Group's balance sheet
and cash position. Strong cash generation
in the second half of the year reversed
the cash consumed in the first half and for
the year as a whole, the Group generated
operating cash of US$51 million. Our cash
position of US$358 million at year end is a
competitive advantage for the Group.
Corporate governance 
We are pleased to be able to report that
we have dealt with the majority of the
Corporate Governance recommendations
raised by the King II Code on Corporate
Governance in South Africa and the
Revised Combined Code in the UK. We
remain committed to addressing any
outstanding issues and will keep our
stakeholders informed of progress.
Dimension Data South Africa is committed
to Black Economic Empowerment as an
economic and business imperative. It is a
vital initiative that will benefit both the
South African economy and the Group
locally and substantial progress continues
to be made in achieving the targets set
out by the Group's internal Black
Economic Empowerment programme. We
believe that by transforming our South
African business and meeting the Black
chairman's statement ANNUAL REPORT 2003 11
Empowerment Equity ownership criteria,
we will enhance business opportunities
and our competitive positioning going
forward.
Outlook
Following the realignments and
rationalisations of the past two years,
Dimension Data is now well positioned to
compete within the current economic
environment. Our key differentiator
remains our ability to provide cost-
effective Application Network solutions to
our customers across a global footprint.
We have made good progress in building
the Dimension Data brand and in building
quality, long term customer relationships.
This is evidenced by the quality of new
business, particularly in the second half of
the year. Going forward we will maintain
our tight focus on financial management,
with a specific emphasis on working
capital management.
Whilst customers remain cautious about
committing to new IT spend and focused
on extracting returns from current IT
investments, there was evidence in all
regions that the demand cycle and
technology-pricing pressures have
stabilised. Whilst we are not factoring any
strong improvement in demand into our
2004 budgets, Dimension Data is now
better placed to win market share due to a
tighter strategic focus, improved sales and
delivery capabilities and strong vendor
relationships.
Thank you 
We notified shareholders in a separate
announcement that Bob Mansfield
resigned from the Board with effect from
17 November 2003, due to work
commitments. I would like to take this
opportunity to thank Bob for his significant
contribution as a Director of Dimension
Data and Datacraft Asia over the last
three years.
I would also like to welcome Dillie
Malherbe, a director of VenFin Ltd, who
are the holders of the convertible bonds,
who has agreed to join our Board as a
non-executive director with immediate
effect.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our
customers, partners and friends for their
continued support. Everybody working at
Dimension Data has been through a tough
period and we all look forward to better
trading conditions. The Group has
emerged in a far healthier state as a result
of the direct input and performance of all
involved.
Jeremy Ord
Executive Chairman