 Chairman's Statement
november 04
december
january 05
february
march
april
may
june
july
august
september
october 05
2005
02
The Year's Results
The past year has been one of further progress, albeit the
trading conditions we have had to operate in have been
tough. Our sales rose 12.1% to  60.6 million, our profits
before tax by 4.4% to  5.0 million and our earnings per
share by 3.0% to 34.3p (adjusting for the  0.5 million gain
on sale of fixed assets in 2004). These numbers were
affected by many factors - good and bad weather at
different times, a new store opening, a challenging
consumer expenditure environment and continued pressure
on our costs from outside influences such as the oil price,
taxation and regulation and from inside influences as we
build and develop our next generation management team.
These are matters that James Barnes and Sharon Brown
address in some depth in their reviews.
The Board of Directors is recommending a final dividend of
6.55p per share, which if approved by Shareholders will
make total dividends for the year 9.75p, an increase of
10%. It is a higher increase than that of the earnings per
share and reflects the Board's confidence in the future.
Long-Term Strategy: the past five years
For a number of years Dobbies has had a strategy of
expanding the Company's business through developments
and improvements in its existing portfolio of centres and
through the opening of new ones. At the heart of all that we
do is the pursuit of excellence and that has led us to 
keep on developing the format of new centres so that they
are at the leading edge of garden centre merchandising.
Our new store at Stirling is certainly testament to the
exciting retailing concept that we have created - aiming to
bring inspiration, education and entertainment  to our
customers when they shop with us.
I would like to add that we aim to achieve these goals 
while at the same time being good employers and being
environmentally responsible.
In planning and making our financial assessments for a
new store, we are of the view that it takes approximately five
years for a new centre to reach maturity and earn the return
objectives set for it. As a consequence we feel that five
years is an appropriate period to account to Shareholders
for our longer-term performance, which it is important to do.
There have been two major influences on our results over
the past five years:
  a consumer boom in the early years; and
  considerable investment in our future development.
The former has matured into a challenging period for
retailers as interest rates were raised to head off threatening
inflation. Our considerable investment has been made in
three areas: in new sites for development (we have
invested  62 million in our fixed asset base), in building our
management team and improving our information
technology systems. These latter influences have resulted
in the slowing down of our growth rate recently - albeit we
believe temporarily - but with the real prospect of a
consequential and considerable pick-up in the growth of
our sales and earnings within the next five years.
Over the last five years our sales have grown from 
 23.6 million to  60.6 million, a compound rate of growth 
of circa 21% per annum. The growth can be attributed to
like for like sales growth, which averaged 8% per annum
over the period, and to new square footage, which
increased by about 60%, as we opened or redeveloped
seven centres and we closed two small ones. By the end 
of the period our average sales per store had risen from
 1.5 million to  3.6 million, which is a reflection of our
commitment to large, attractive garden centres.
Our earnings per share have grown from 23.3p to 34.3p, 
a compound rate of growth of 8.1%. There are three factors
which have affected its growth rate: firstly our gross profit
margin has risen over the period from 46.3% to 48.5%,
largely as a result of the improvement this year, as our
investment in Electronic Point of Sale (EPOS) begins to 
pay off; offsetting this has been the rise of 24% per annum
in our operational expenses. Although there have been
some cost inflationary pressures, the main reason for the
increase has been our investment in additional people 
and systems as we have geared for the next stage of 
our growth. Finally, the increases in our interest costs and 
in the number of shares outstanding reflect the capital
requirements of that next stage of our growth.
As Shareholders know, we prefer to own rather than lease
the centres from which we operate, believing that there are
important long-term advantages both to our operating
flexibility and to the growth of Shareholder value. Of the 
 62 million that we have invested in new and existing
centres during the last five years,  23 million has been
generated by our cash flow,  5 million of new equity and 
 34 million out of the facility that we have with the Bank of
Scotland. The guideline policy of the Board on borrowings
is to finance the centres two thirds by borrowings and one
third by Shareholders' equity. At the end of the period we
had fixed assets of  89 million (up from  33 million) with
debt of  47 million (53% of fixed assets) and Shareholders'
equity of  40 million (44%). We own all but our Aberdeen
Centre, which is on a very long lease.
Remuneration of Executive Management
As the management team has grown and as more stock
options have been awarded, the Board of Directors has
become increasingly concerned about the ineffectiveness Dobbies Garden Centres Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Alex Hammond-Chambers
Chairman
of the option programme in making executive
management long-term Shareholders; it is,
after all, the objective of such share incentive
plans. In practice the cost of the options and
the taxation involved in exercising them
means that few of the shares can be retained
by the beneficiaries; and, with the exception
of the Executive Directors, beneficiaries have
tended to sell all of their shares, with the
result that stock options turn out to be an
expensive way of financing a bonus.
The Remuneration Committee has worked
with Shepherd & Wedderburn in constructing
a new share incentive programme, which will
be placed before Shareholders at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM).
In brief it substitutes the current share option
plan for the Executive Directors with a Long
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and adds an
incentive to the Approved Option Plan for the
Management Board Directors to retain their
shares. In both cases there are performance
criteria attached to the vesting of shares.
The details of the new share incentive 
plans and other remuneration are laid out 
in the Remuneration Report and in the
accompanying proxy circular. May I please
ask any Shareholder who has any comments
or questions about these or about any other
issues in that circular to contact me before
the AGM.
The Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at the Company's
offices (located at the Melville Garden
Centre, just south of Edinburgh) at 12 noon
on Friday 28 April 2006. I do, as always, urge
as many Shareholders as possible to attend
the meeting at which James will make a
presentation on the year just past and on the
prospects for the future. A lot of Shareholders
have attended in the past and your
comments and questions have always been
most helpful, for which I thank you.
At this AGM David Barnes will not be
standing for re-election. The Company and
Shareholders owe him a great debt of
gratitude, for it was he who effectively started
Dobbies along its growth path as a modern
garden centre chain. After he acquired
ownership of the Company he set about
developing new stores and had the vision to
centres, particularly where we develop
green-field sites, whenever possible and
when it makes financial sense to do so.
Our investment in additions to our senior
management team (it is I believe an excellent
team) is key to such success and it is
beginning to pay off. It has started to produce
results in such areas as the buying and
management of our stock, our merchandising
and our marketing. Our property team has
produced a good portfolio of sites for
development and is working on others for
future development; our current portfolio of
trading centres is, as a whole, quite immature
and should produce above average growth.
The Board of Directors has a great deal of
confidence that the considerable investments
that we have made will pay off satisfactorily;
at the risk of repeating myself again, the
reason for all of our investment is to achieve
exactly this. Although the current year will be
a challenging one, I believe we can look
forward to higher rates of growth as well 
as higher absolute levels of sales, profits 
and profitability emerging within the next 
five years.
see that the size and scope of garden
centres would change to become the large
attractive centres that they are today. Being
an eminent horticulturist, he also understood
well the needs of gardeners as customers.
Since relinquishing the position of Executive
Chairman in 1994, he has served as a 
Non-executive Director. David, on behalf of
all of us - Shareholders and employees -
many thanks for all that you have done for us.
We are in the process of finding a new
independent Non-executive Director whom
we would expect to appoint during the
course of the year.
On behalf of Shareholders, I would also like
to thank James, Johnny and Sharon, all their
colleagues who work for the Company
(whether at head office or at the centres) and
my three Non-executive Director colleagues
for all the hard work and commitment which
has enabled the Company to make further
progress during the year.
Long-Term Strategy: the next five years
The strategy remains the same - to increase
the value of Shareholders' investment in
Dobbies Garden Centres, by developing the
sales and returns of the centres that we are
already operating and by adding new ones,
always pushing out the boundaries of the
retailing concepts we offer to our customers. 
I anticipate that we will continue to own our
Alex Hammond-Chambers
Chairman
6 February 2006