 Chairman's Statement
Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 2
The market for all businesses that 
provide services to Government was 
difficult during the period. The coalition 
government's squeeze on central 
spending meant in particular a sharp 
reversal in spending patterns that 
affected our training business. Moreover , 
the pace at which advertising revenue 
flowed away from print publications 
and towards online media materially 
affected our publishing businesses. We 
should have anticipated both trends 
earlier and accelerated our investment 
in our digital offerings to compensate. 
The investment is now being made and 
we are seeing benefits.
We also had a number of factors that 
affected us in particular. As previously 
reported we had a fire at our office 
in London which caused significant 
disruption and meant we had to 
temporarily relocate our operations. 
In addition, the Office of Fair Trading 
referred our proposed acquisition of 
De Havilland, which offers a similar 
monitoring service, to the Competition 
Commission. This resulted in the Group 
spending  1.7 million of fees and 
expenses and diverted management 
time from the business. 
Despite these setbacks we recapitalised 
the Company by placing 188 million 
shares and raising  10.0 million before 
expenses. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank shareholders who 
have shown their support for the 
Company's view of the future by their 
backing of this placing. The resulting 
strong balance sheet has allowed us to 
invest and restructure with confidence in 
what has been a difficult year and has 
supported a sense of renewal within the 
business. The Board is clear that Dods 
has a presence and a platform on which 
can be created a suite of products that 
will allow our clients in the public, private 
and governmental sectors to access the 
The Report and Accounts 
presented show the results for the 
15 months ended March 2013.
As previously notified our year-end was 
moved to avoid the compression of our 
best trading quarter against the year-end 
which affected the predictability of our 
results. We believe that in future the 
change in reporting year will allow us to 
guide the market more clearly and 
enhance our customer service in a critical 
trading period. Nevertheless we are 
working to reduce the seasonality of 
revenues, something that will become 
easier as we increasingly move towards a 
more subscription based relationship with 
our clients.
Our trading performance has been poor. 
This was not caused by a lack of effort by 
our staff. They, as I will go onto explain, 
have risen superbly to the challenge. 
However, over number of years declining 
revenues in some areas had been 
replaced with revenues from a variety of 
new clients and services, without 
sufficient attention to profitability. This 
left the company poorly positioned from 
a profitability perspective in the 
period under review.  Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 3
information and people they need in  
the most timely and productive manner. 
We are increasingly aiming, through 
investment in people and services, to 
embed our products in the daily work-
flow of our clients.
As evidence of our approach we launched 
a new monitoring product and have 
made a significant capital investment in 
our single information platform. We also 
completed two acquisitions during the 
period and look for further opportunities 
to grow the group through acquisition. 
The Board continue to believe the 
interests of shareholders are served by 
the continuing investment in technology 
and new product initiatives and therefore 
do not propose to pay a dividend. 
Revenue for the 15 months was  18.8 
million and our adjusted earnings 
before interest tax depreciation and 
amortisation was  0.4 million. The 
statutory loss before tax for the period 
was  10.6 million. This is after taking an 
impairment charge of  6.9 million. The 
Board are required to review the carrying 
value of goodwill on the balance sheet 
on an annual basis and the charge 
reflects more cautious assumptions 
on future growth rates than used in 
the previous year. We have disclosed 
separately  1.7 million of non-trading 
items. The majority of which,  0.9 
million, were costs associated with the 
potential acquisition of De Havilland. 
These results reflect the continued 
changes and investments we are  
implementing within the Group. This  
will ensure that Dods grows into a 
significant business in the political 
communications industry.
I said at the start that our people have 
risen to the challenges of market 
change and circumstance. I would like 
to highlight these. 
Our information monitoring service will 
be on our new technology platform 
from October of this year and this is the 
first step to all of our products being on 
a single platform allowing us to exploit 
our data and information in a number 
of ways and develop new products. This 
project has been, to date, on time and 
under budget and I would like to extend 
my thanks to our senior Management 
and the IT Group for ensuring that 
this was so despite the huge workload 
caused by the relocation after the fire.
We have grown the number of clients 
who use our monitoring services by 
21% over the 15 month period. The 
Group now has more than 700 clients 
taking this service. We are expanding 
our offering to other European states, 
notably Germany and France but have 
also secured clients in the United States 
of America. Whilst we believe that the 
combination of technology and service 
will ensure we continue to grow this part 
of our business ultimately further growth 
will be driven by the fact that in this area 
the commitment and professionalism 
of our people stands out. They have 
performed exceptionally to grow the 
revenues and number of customers and 
I applaud their hard work.
As I stated above the change in the 
marketplace as the coalition government 
reined in departmental spending 
affected our training business. We 
were successful as a key partner in the 
Capita led consortium that was awarded 
The Civil Service Learning contract. A 
slower than expected implementation 
of this meant that revenues were not as 
anticipated through 2012/13.
We have, since the start of the year, 
seen an improvement in the number of 
courses being run through the umbrella 
contract and this is now starting to 
deliver materially better results. The 
quality of the courses and training we 
offer has won consistently high marks 
from the users and this is reflected in 
Francis Maude, Civil Service Live 2013.
Dame Gill Morgan,  
Faculty of Medical Leadership and 
Management Conference 2012. Chairman's Statement
continued
Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 4
increased course bookings. This contract 
win and the level of service provided is a 
testament to the tenacity of our people 
in this area who have a strong pride  
in their work and hence the respect of 
the user community. Success breeds  
success and I am delighted to report  
new training contracts both in the UK 
and from countries in West Africa and 
China. These underpin my view that, 
with the benefit of stable governmental 
budgets in this area, we are capable  
of returning over time to the levels of 
revenue from this sector that we saw 
four year ago.
We had a disappointing conference 
season at the three main political  
parties' conferences and intend to 
review our participation at the events 
in 2014. We currently take speculative 
space at the events which we then sell 
on. It is our intention to offer a more 
bespoke service to clients in the future 
thereby limiting our financial exposure. 
Set against this our other events, 
particularly Civil Service Live, performed 
very strongly. Our strategy within this 
space is to focus our offering on a core 
number of sectors. We are making 
headway in the health market and 
intend to replicate this in other verticals.
It is in the arena that our publications 
and websites compete in that change 
has been the most disruptive. Both the 
printed format and the digital platform 
will co-exist for some time to come.  
Both will only attract advertisers and 
users if the content, which our editorial 
teams produce, is excellent. I expect  
that we will have a difficult market  
place to contend with both this  
year and next. But I do believe that if  
anyone can succeed in this space we  
can because our people are delivering  
tremendous products.
We acquired Total Politics and Holyrood 
Communications in December 2012 and 
they have been fully integrated into the 
Group. I would like to welcome all of 
their staff to the Dods Group and look 
forward to these acquisitions making 
a positive contribution in the future.  
Holyrood is a vital part of our plans 
going forward. Its excellent reputation is 
one we aim to build upon and enhance. 
We have increased the number of 
sales people in the organisation by 
13% and continue to do so. We have  
implemented training programmes for 
staff and ensure all staff are exposed to 
all parts of the business. This will ensure 
we offer our clients a service that allows 
them comprehensive access to the 
resources of the Company. 
We are dependent upon our clients, 
employees and management to make 
Dods a success and I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank them 
all for their support and continued 
hard work. What on paper is, as I said 
at the beginning of this statement, a 
poor financial result, nevertheless masks 
tremendous effort and hard work in 
wresting the Company onto a new 
course. We are profoundly grateful for 
your labours.
Board
I have decided to step down from the 
role as Chairman. We are progressing 
with the search for a replacement who 
will be announced in due course. I would 
like to thank all staff and colleagues for 
the support and determination to make 
Dods succeed. I have been on the Board 
for 9 years and Chairman for nearly 5 
years. I have thoroughly enjoyed my 
tenure and leave with Dods set well for 
future growth.
Outlook
Although the trading environment 
continues to be difficult we have 
started the new financial year positively. 
We have seen continued growth in 
revenues in our information monitoring 
business, in our training division and in 
our government division. The Board are 
optimistic about the performance for 
the Group in the current 12 months.
 
Kevin Hand
Chairman
25 July 2013
Paul Waugh and Rt Hon  
Sir Menzies Campbell MP ,  
US Election Lib Dem Day.