 6
Chairman's Statement
 Strengthening of the infrastructure to 
accommodate future growth, investing 
in expanded teams and management, as well 
as advanced IT systems development and 
analysis capability.
Strategy
The slowdown in the home PC software market, which
management identified in 2003, worsened in 2004.
During 2004, we successfully diversified away from a
commodity software, product-led business to an
audience-led, multi-brand business. The group now has
three catalogue and internet brands, each developed on
the theme of nostalgia, leisure and entertainment, and
focusing on the over 50s market. 
Brands
Dreamdirect, our original catalogue brand, continues to
be the core of the business. It generated 56% of the
group's sales in the financial year (2003/04: 90%). The
slowdown of the home PC software market has
presented challenges of product development and
customer retention that have now been addressed.
Software is now reduced to the status of a main category
and represented 55% of our Christmas 2004 range,
compared with 85% the year previously. This trend will
continue as we diversify Dreamdirect into a broader
range of leisure products. This evolution requires careful
catalogue database management and we are pleased that
repeat business targets were achieved in 2004.
Boogaloo (toys, games and hobbies), our second
catalogue brand, was rolled out during 2004, following
its successful launch in late 2003. It achieved very
encouraging sales of  5.9 million in its first full year,
being 39% of the group's sales (2003/04: 10%). During
the current year we will expand the range and focus on
optimising customer recruitment and retention.
The last year has been one of continued growth,
although this has presented the group with challenges as
well as opportunities. Turnover grew by 38% to  14.98
million during the year to 31 March 2005 (2003/04:
 10.87 million) and the gross profit margin remained
strong at 59.3% (2003/04: 59.1%). The key financial
measure of contribution (calculated as sales less
distribution and marketing costs), doubled to  2 million
during the year. This reflects the benefits of growth,
stimulated by an increased focus on targeting and
segmentation for both repeat business and new customer
recruitment. 
We are pleased to be able to report our first operating
profit (EBITDA) of  31,000 before one-off relocation
costs. However, our retained loss for the year, which
includes costs associated with relocation of  574,000,
was  721,000 (2003/04:  749,000). This loss was of
course very disappointing, but the relocation to
significantly larger premises was essential to allow for
the future profitable growth of the business. 
A number of key strategic initiatives were undertaken
during the year, which have done much to bring stability
to the group and create a strong and resilient platform
for the future profitable growth of the business:
 Implementation of refocused strategy, from 
being a product-led to an audience-led 
business, with the over 50s being our target
market;
 Diversification of the Dreamdirect catalogue
range away from software and consolidation of
the Boogaloo range in the traditional toys and
hobbies market;
 Launch of Razamataz, increasing the portfolio 
of catalogue brands in the group to three;
 Relocation to new premises to provide 
capacity for current and future growth; 7
capacity at our then current premises at Bicester would
be dangerously stretched during the peak period up to
Christmas 2004, particularly as a result of the bulkier
profile of Boogaloo products. 
Ideal premises (higher than average office to warehouse
ratio) were found in Witney, and it was decided to
relocate ahead of the peak season. The move went well
but the necessary use of many new staff caused
operating inefficiencies and costs to rise. Heavier
demand than was projected at Christmas ensured that
there was no letup until after the peak season had
passed. Regretfully, costs exceeded those anticipated by
some degree, but it is likely that the impact would have
been more serious had we stayed in the original
premises.
Infrastructure and management
The group has experienced very rapid growth rates since
its inception, and during the last year much has been
done to build and strengthen a robust and flexible
infrastructure capable of handling continued growth and
new products. Relocation was a key part of this process
in providing increased capacity. A further critical aspect
has been the creation of an internal operating board of
senior executives from within the group to focus on day-
to-day management issues across the core areas of the
business, these being finance, merchandising,
cataloguing, customer service, marketing, IT and
operations. This 7 strong team has a combined 38 years
within the business. Towards the end of the year the
finance function was strengthened materially with the
arrival of new Financial Director, Jon Ashcroft, who has
appointed a new finance team including a Finance
Controller and Business Analyst. These improvements
will increasingly free the main board to focus its
attention on broader strategic matters and critical
operating issues that arise. 
Razamataz (classic TV, films & Music) was launched in
October 2004, following the successful precedent of
Boogaloo, and contributed 5% of the group's sales in the
year (2003/04: 0%). Razamataz traded above
expectations over the Christmas period and we believe
the outlook is very promising. 
We aim to consolidate and develop these brands, and
the infrastructure supporting them, during 2005. We will
explore several new brand concepts during the current
year with a view to resuming brand growth in 2006.
The group is utilising a multi-channel approach. We
believe that there is a migration of consumer buying
behaviour towards mail order and internet home
shopping and away from high street retail shopping.
Home shopping is a rapidly growing market with  1 in
every  7 spent on consumer goods going to a home
shopping operator in 2004 (Verdict Research). This trend
is reflected in the rate of growth that the group has been
experiencing over recent years, and also in the
increasing ratio of online to offline sales; and we expect
to benefit from a continuation of this trend.
The core target market for the group is the over 50s. One
in three of the UK population is over 50 and this is
expected to rise to one in two by 2020 (Datamonitor).
We believe that this market segment provides
considerable scope for growth for the group, as it is both
time and cash rich compared to other sectors of the
population; and it responds well to our mail order and
online sales channels. This is borne out by the fact that
the over 50's now represent the biggest online shopping
audience in the UK, with their average spend increasing
by 130% in 2004 to an average of  527, this being  four
times the growth rate for the overall market for online
shopping (Verdict Research).
Relocation
We had planned to relocate in 2005. However, as a
result of the successful testing of Boogaloo and the
evolution of the Dreamdirect brand, it became clear that 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 8
Chairman's Statement (continued)
The Board is continuing to implement its strategy for
growth through discrete but similarly-targeted brands,
with its key focus being to achieve profitability through
leveraging the group's now substantial customer
database and operational infrastructure. In support of this
strategy, further catalogue brands will be developed. It is
important that we achieve maximum penetration of our
target market; and utilising all opportunities for cross-
promotion and broadening the range of product on offer,
both within existing brands and via additional ones, are
effective and low risk means of achieving this.
The Board is conscious of reports of slowing consumer
spending on the High Street, but the evidence is that our
business is not being similarly affected at present.
The current year has started well, with like-for-like
trading during April and May being 17% up on the same
period last year. In addition, the level of repeat business
for this period is up by 25% on the previous year.
The Board is confident that the group will report its
maiden pre-tax profit in the current year, and believes
that as a result of the strategic initiatives undertaken
during the last year the outlook for the group is most
promising.
Staff
I would like to thank our staff for their considerable
commitment and support over the last year. We are
particularly fortunate to have retained 95% of our office
team over the relocation. We lost most of our
operational teams due to the distance of the relocation,
but we have successfully recruited replacements, and are
pleased that Witney has a stronger employment pool to
recruit from. 
Sadly, Robert Silver had to resign from his role as
Chairman in February this year due to illness and the
board and staff all wish him well. I am pleased to report
that he has recently reported a successful recovery. 
I would like to thank Jim Godfrey who agreed
temporarily to take on the role of interim Chairman until
a replacement was found. Jim was clearly a great support
to the executives and he now steps back to resume his
role as non-executive director.
I was appointed Chairman on 9 June this year, having
spent some considerable time in the company during
May. 
Current trading and prospects
On 30 June 2005, the company raised in excess of
 350,000 (net of costs) by way of a placing of new
ordinary shares with a number of existing institutional
and private investors (including all members of the
board) at the market price of 87.5 pence per share. The
funds raised will be used for working capital
requirements and to assist the group to pursue its
existing growth strategy. It is most pleasing to have
received such strong support from a number of our key
shareholders in the placing which, I believe, reflects the
confidence that both they and the Board have with
regards to the future prospects for the group. Dr. Bryan Mayoh
Chairman