 Chairman's Statement   
*Underlying figures are stated before the share based payment charge and exceptional items (note 5). 
 
Driver Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 
5 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
I am pleased to report on the Group's performance for 
the financial year 2011 / 2012; a year in which we 
both materially outperformed market expectations and 
made a significant acquisition which has given the 
Group a presence in 5 global regions.  Throughout the 
year we continued the positive trends seen in the 
second half of 2010 / 2011 and the first half of 2011 / 
2012. 
 
We achieved all of our key objectives including further 
growth in revenues, profits and cash position (after 
accounting for the funds utilised in the acquisition of 
Trett).  This strength in trading, cash generation and 
continued optimism across the business allows us to 
recommend an enhanced final dividend. 
 
12 months ago we stated that the Group would 
continue to strive for growth in terms of revenue and 
sustainable profit and that it would maintain a healthy 
cash position.  We identified areas where the Group's 
operations could be developed (being primarily Africa, 
Qatar and UK Power & Process sector) and said we 
were structured to maintain a stable environment in all 
other areas of the Group.  I am pleased to report that 
not only was the Group successful in developing and 
growing these targeted areas but it was also able to 
significantly outperform in the Middle East. 
 
Following the Trett acquisition and the underlying 
growth in our business, our employee and sub-
consultant numbers have risen to 271 (2011: 175).  At 
all levels in the Group, our employees have adapted to 
the challenges our business has encountered through 
this continued period of growth and have adopted a 
flexibility appropriate to Driver's developing global 
business.  This commitment to the Group's future 
performance has resulted in the Group being in a 
position where it is creating exciting opportunities for 
our staff across the globe and in an increased number 
of service sectors. 
 
I am particularly pleased, as the Group Chief Executive 
states in his statement, to report that the integration 
of the Trett business acquired in May 2012 has been 
successfully achieved and the staff that joined Driver 
are making a full contribution to the Group. 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Revenue for the 12 months to 30 September 2012 
increased by 51% to  26.3m (2011:  17.4m) largely 
as a result of our improving position in Africa, the 
Middle East, the UK Power & Process sector and with 
the final 5 months benefitting from the acquisition of 
Trett.  
 
Underlying* profit before taxation increased by 220% 
to  1.75m (2011:  0.55m).  After a charge for share 
options of  135,000 (2011:  74,000) and exceptional 
items (being the costs related to the acquisition and 
integration of Trett and severance payments) of 
 418,000 (2011:  125,000) reported profit before 
taxation increased 243% to  1.2m (2011:  0.35m). 
 
The Group's net borrowing position at the end of the 
year stood at  0.96m after the acquisition of Trett 
(2011: net cash  0.57m). Cash generated from 
operations was  1.4m. 
 
Underlying* earnings per share was 5.5 pence (2011: 
1.7 pence).  Reported earnings per share was 3.3 
pence (2011: 0.9 pence).   
 
DIVIDEND 
In view of the sustained profits and the underlying 
cash inflow in the year, the Board proposes a final 
dividend for 2012 of 0.7p per share (2011: 0.5p) 
giving a full year dividend of 1.0p per share (2011: 
0.5p).  The final dividend will be paid on 9 April 2013 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 2 April 2013. 
 
TRADING OVERVIEW 
The Group's performance continues to progress 
against all key parameters.  Revenue is 51% higher, 
underlying pre-tax profit is 220% higher and the 
underlying cash position has increased by  0.6m when 
account is taken of the Trett acquisition net cost of 
 2.2m. 
 
This has been achieved whilst integrating Trett into the 
business and returning the Trett business to profit 
from a sustained period of losses at the time of 
acquisition. 
 
The Group is now positioned as a global provider with 
56% of revenue earned on projects outside of the UK. 
 
Trading in Europe, which accounted for 61% of Group 
revenue, was up 34% on 2011 revenues as a result of 
the 5 month benefit of the Trett business together with 
continued growth in the Power & Process sector, where 
we recruited additional management in 2011 in our 
efforts to increase our presence in this sector.  In 
addition, we have started to see areas of growth in our 
UK Civil & Infrastructure sector as well as Off-Shore 
Wind projects.  Notwithstanding the increase in 
revenues, profit in Europe was down due to losses in 
the Trett business in the early months following 
acquisition.  As we exited the year, utilisation levels of 
the Trett staff had improved materially ensuring their 
final months of the year were profitable in their 
European operations.  Chairman's Statement continued 
*Underlying figures are stated before the share based payment charge and exceptional items (note 5). 
 
Driver Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 
6 
In the Middle East, trading accounted for 27% of 
Group revenue and was up 58% on 2011 revenues.  
The region out-performed expectations as set out in 
the previous trading updates, prior to the Trett 
acquisition which added a 5 month benefit, with 
growth in each of our 4 offices, primarily through the 
disputes and advisory service and expert witness 
work.  Whilst we anticipated the construction market 
in the UAE to stay at much reduced levels, we have 
benefitted from an increasing level of disputes and 
arbitrations in the region taking revenue up 17% and 
returning the region to profit.  Oman continues to 
perform well with Government projects providing 
much of the revenue from a healthy pipeline of 
projects with revenue up 27% and profit up 8 
percentage points.  Qatar continues to be relatively 
slow in development due to delays in release of 
projects but nonetheless increased revenues by 175% 
in the year and returned to profit.  This increase in 
overall performance has seen the region transform 
from a loss position in 2011 to healthy profits in 2012. 
 
Africa's revenue represents 8% of Group revenue and 
is up 143% on 2011 and significantly out-performed 
our internal expectations.  We now have work across 
all service streams - in the PPP sector, expert witness 
appointments, claims and advisory services, strategic 
project management and project services.  The region 
has transformed from a small loss in 2011 to good 
levels of profit in 2012. 
 
The acquisition of Trett has allowed the Group to 
penetrate markets in two additional regions, the 
Americas (through the Houston office) and Asia Pacific 
(through offices in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore). 
These regions were not performing well at the time of 
the acquisition and had been losing money for a 
sustained period of time but management action, and 
integration in to the wider Driver Group during the 5 
months since acquisition, has turned America to a 
break even position.  The markets in oil & gas, 
shipping and marine services provided opportunities 
for this recovery.  
 
OUTLOOK 
Last year I said we would develop our operations in 
Africa, the UK Power & Process sector and Qatar whilst 
maintaining a stable environment in the remaining 
parts of our business and evidence the sustainability of 
the Group profits.  This has been achieved whilst also 
out performing in the Middle East, a region where we 
have grown the business quicker than anticipated 
following the re-structuring, due to increased volume 
of work in the dispute market. 
 
In addition, we have completed a significant 
acquisition that now ensures we have a global 
footprint.  We have successfully integrated the 
businesses and have returned the Trett business to 
profitability. 
 
Our Medium Term Plan is to establish all our key 
service provisions (Project Services, Dispute & 
Advisory, Strategic Project Management and Expert 
Witness & Litigation Support) across all of the regions 
- Africa, Americas, Asia Pacific, Mainland Europe, 
Middle East and UK.  In large part this can be achieved 
organically but we are receptive to the possibilities 
that targeted acquisitions may be beneficial in some 
regions and service sectors. We will be looking to open 
offices in key areas of Canada, Mainland Europe and 
Asia Pacific.  An important element of this plan is to 
leverage our service offerings across all markets.  This 
provides the possibility for material growth particularly 
given that Trett has not previously provided project 
services or strategic project management services to 
their clients. 
 
We see the coming year as one in which we will 
continue to grow and develop our service offerings 
across all of our regions.  Of course different regions 
will develop at different paces and in varying markets. 
The oil and gas market is an area where we see 
opportunity to impact in 3 regions; and an important 
objective is to increase our activity across the network 
of hubs in Houston, UAE and Kuala Lumpur / 
Singapore.  In June, we launched our Diales brand 
through which we promote our high end expert 
witness offering to clients involved in international 
arbitrations and this will continue to be an area of 
focused development. 
 
We are delighted by the way our current financial year 
has started, particularly in Africa and the Middle East 
which continue to outperform as the momentum in our 
last financial year in these regions has continued into 
the current year.  Across the Group, our secured 
revenues and revenues expected to be secured and 
delivered in the remainder of the year are very 
encouraging.  We have visibility of our first quarter 
performance and secured work beyond this period, 
which indicates that we have had a particularly strong 
start to the current year.  This gives the Board a high 
level of confidence in the outlook for the remainder of 
the financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
W. Alan McClue 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
 
 
 