 DRS Data & Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
12
Sir David Brown
Chairman
Results
2009 was a difficult year for the Group, with turnover 
down 15% on the previous year at  14,901,000  
(2008:  17,429,000) and a loss before tax of  915,000 
(2008:  2,547,000). 
The Group's performance in its education markets  
has remained strong and profitable, although the full  
year revenue was 0.4% below 2008 at  13,315,000 
(2008:  13,369,000). In particular e-Marker
 
 sales were 
the highest ever at  8,155,000 (2008:  7,734,000) and 
alone accounted for 55% of DRS' total revenue. Revenue 
from the Group's more traditional education business, 
which includes UK student registration and the printing of 
forms for overseas education bodies, decreased by 8.4% 
to  5,160,000 (2008:  5,635,000). Overall, revenue from 
the education markets was 89% of total revenue.
However, the Group's performance in its non- 
education markets declined quickly and significantly. 
Census and election revenue fell by 78% to  632,000  
(2008:  2,871,000), partly because of the uneven nature 
of election and census business. The economic downturn 
affected our commercial markets, particularly in the 
United States where Peladon Software Inc did not make 
the progress which was expected. 
Part of the Group's response has been to reflect the 
rapidly changing balance in its market emphasis in an 
extensive programme of changes to its cost base. Major 
cost reductions have been implemented in the year, 
including the postponement of the intended move of 
the Group's operational divisions to larger premises. The 
annualised value of these reductions to the Group's cost 
base is more than  1,500,000.
The stringent cost-reduction programme, which had 
full effect in the second half year, taken together with 
the seasonality in the e-Marker
 
 business, resulted in a 
profitable second half year and a reduction of  770,000  
in the loss before tax reported at the half year.
Diligent control of expenditure and a determined 
approach to asset management has resulted in an 
increase in year-end cash holdings of  172,000 to 
 2,938,000, despite the trading loss.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a 
dividend (2008: 0.30p per share).
Education
The Group's examinations and assessment business 
continues to grow with e-Marker
 
 as our leading product 
Chai Rman' S Stat EmEnt DRS Data & Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 13
and service offering. Our major UK customer, AQA 
(Assessment and Qualifications Alliance), continues to 
expand its use of e-Marker
 
 for processing GCSE and 
A-level examinations. More than 9 million AQA answer 
scripts were processed this year using e-Marker
 
 
compared to approximately 7.5 million in 2008. 
Shortly after the close of the year to which this report 
relates, in January 2010, we were delighted to sign a 
further agreement with AQA which extends to October 
2014. The potential turnover for the Group over this  
five-year contract is expected to exceed  40,000,000.
During the year we installed into several schools a new 
version of our IntelliReg
 
 product. IntelliReg
 
 offers a 
wall-mounted fingertip biometric method of registering 
pupil's attendance at school. An entry-level solution for 
primary and small secondary schools has also been 
developed and supplied. This version reduces the price 
and complexity of installation by interfacing to a teacher's 
laptop computer. Both versions integrate fully with 
schools' information management systems and provide 
immediate on-line access to the data.
Education-related printing for the African market remains 
good business for DRS. We have long-standing trading 
relationships in countries such as Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia, 
where we provide high quality paper forms for machine 
processing of data. Most of these forms are for use in 
education and many countries use our range of scanners 
for reading the completed forms. During the year we secured 
significant scanner sales from both Nigeria and Zambia.
Census and Elections
The Group continues to be a supplier of census projects. 
Two major census projects in Malawi and Sudan, which 
were started in 2008, were completed successfully in the 
first half-year. We designed and printed the millions of 
specialised forms required for these projects in addition 
to capturing the census data using our PhotoScribe
 
 
scanners. The Group's ability to deliver comprehensive 
services dedicated to census-taking again proved to  
be reliable and efficient even in challenging geographical 
locations. In the second half of the year we won the 
contract to supply scanners and software for the  
Pakistan census for implemention during 2010 and 2011.
Our established range of census services was 
complemented in the year with the launch of a new 
product which uses GPS to capture positional information 
simply and cheaply as part of the census process. The 
product, called Cense
 
, is a hand-held device which can 
be used by enumerators, with minimal training, to capture 
the longitude and latitude of their location. The location, 
once transferred to census forms, can be processed with 
the other data and provide valuable extra information.
The Group delivered e-Counting services for two Scottish 
by-elections during the year, in Glasgow and East Ayrshire. 
The services included the supply of ballot papers and boxes, 
the scanning of all ballot papers and the e-Counting.
Commercial
The current economic pressures in the market for  
the Group's commercial products and services 
contributed to a 20% decrease in commercial revenue 
to  954,000 (2008:  1,189,000). The proportion of 
commercial revenue attributable to DocXP  fell to  
57.4% (2008: 64.5%).
40 Years of innovation
2009 marked the 40th anniversary of the founding  
of the Group by my predecessor as Chairman of  
the Board, Malcolm Brighton OBE, DL. When I was 
appointed Chairman in May, I said at the AGM that  
for all of those 40 years, DRS has been a leader in 
innovative technologies, including particularly  
intelligent scanning and related systems and software.  
It has been a leader in innovative service delivery  
in the UK and in several other parts of the world.  
Indeed, its educational, governmental and commercial 
customers regard service as DRS' defining ethos.   DRS Data & Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
14
It has been a leader in innovative quality practices too.  
I said that DRS' customers need the Company to have 
total dependability running through its veins, and it has.
The new AQA contract, signed in the opening weeks of 
2010, is proof-positive of this long-standing innovative 
prowess and the Group's ability to leverage that strength 
to win important business.
As the Group embarks on its 41st year, its resolve 
to strengthen yet further its innovative stance and its 
customer propositions is greater than ever.
Outlook
The prospects for e-Marker
 
 appear promising, both in 
the UK and internationally. In June we won a contract for 
a pilot project in the Caribbean which we expect to lead 
to a longer term contract in due course. The successful 
introduction of the innovative Long Form Answer 
process with AQA during the summer is likely to lead to 
new business with the awarding bodies for professional 
qualifications. The examinations which these awarding 
bodies conduct are based in part on essay-style 
answers and the cost of marking time is high. The latest 
version of e-Marker
 
 offers benefits in both reducing 
costs and providing results more quickly.
Also, our existing customers in Africa are keen to implement 
e-Marker
 
. During recent years the communication 
infrastructure within a number of countries has grown 
enormously in coverage and capability, and high speed data 
communications and availability of the Internet now makes 
e-Marker
 
 a viable solution for examination processing in 
these countries. A number of negotiations have taken place 
and our first pilot project, in Nigeria, has been won.
Sustaining the competitiveness of e-Marker
 
 and 
its associated services is of central importance to 
the Group's strategy for returning to profitability 
and growth, and we expect to continue to invest in 
e-Marker
 
 accordingly.
To capitalise on our early successes with IntelliReg
 
 we 
have established a partnership with leading suppliers of 
biometric systems into schools, including those engaged 
in the Building Schools for the Future programme. This 
will broaden our sales and marketing strategy and enable 
us to cover substantially more schools directly and build 
relationships with local authorities.
2010 and 2011 are expected to be major years for census 
activity internationally. DRS has already won the Pakistan 
census project and is shortlisted for other projects. Although 
competition is increasing significantly, we have an excellent 
reputation for delivery and are developing new features to 
enhance our solution. The GPS (Global Positioning System) 
Cense
 
 device, which can improve the value of census data, 
will also increase the competitiveness of our census solutions.
The US market for DocXP  remains difficult and, 
therefore, the prospects for Peladon Software Inc  
are uncertain.
In summary, the pattern of strong performance in the 
education markets and relatively weak performance 
in the non-education markets, which characterised 
2009, is likely to continue into 2010. The strategic and 
operational management of the Group will take this 
pattern fully into account.
Looking further ahead, the Directors expect that the Group's 
continuing, determined focus on building best-in-class 
customer relationships coupled with increasing product and 
service innovation, particularly in its education markets, will 
secure the Group's return to sustainable profitability and 
provide a robust foundation for long-term growth.
Sir David Brown
Chairman
22 March 2010
Chai Rman' S Stat EmEnt continued
Sustaining the competiveness of e-marker
 
 and its associated 
services is of central importance to the Group's strategy 
for returning to profitability and growth, and we expect to 
continue to invest in e-marker
 
 accordingly.