 3
DYSON GROUP plc
Chairman's Statement
OVERVIEW - I am pleased to report that we have continued to develop the Group strategy in line with our
stated plans.This involves moving the Company away from low margin and low growth activities and
increasing further the Group's investment in higher growth products with significant long term potential, whilst
maintaining our core competency as a materials technology group.
The financial results are again ahead of market expectations, whilst reflecting the launch costs of the new
Ecoflex
 
product and increased Carolite
TM
development costs, as well as the impact of the successful Rights
Issue in April 2002.The programme to improve the financial returns within the Group's more traditional
activities has also resulted in an improved operating margin for the fourth year in succession.
In the current financial year, we shall be investing heavily in new Saffil
 
fibre capacity, in Ecoflex
 
production
facilities, and in commissioning the production line for the manufacture of Carolite
TM
hard disk drive
substrates.The Board is confident that this growth-orientated capital expenditure will deliver significant
financial returns for shareholders.This confidence is based upon strong customer acceptance of our new
Carolite
TM
products and good visibility in terms of Ecoflex
 
production requirements in future years.
As shareholders are aware, the balance sheet of the Group was significantly enhanced during the year as a
result of the Rights Issue, which was completed on 30 April 2002.This exercise raised  15 million after
expenses, which was substantial relative to the size of the Group, and it ensures that we are able to take
advantage of the many opportunities that are available to us for the development and commercial exploitation
of new products. 4
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND - Underlying profit before exceptional property profits, reorganisation and
closure costs and goodwill amortisation was  4.1 million (2002:  4.9 million), which gave rise to underlying
earnings per share of 10.50 pence (2002: 18.92). As anticipated, the reduction in the underlying profit before
tax was principally due to the costs associated with the highly successful launch of the new Ecoflex
 
catalytic
converter protection system, which is now being adopted by major motor manufacturers throughout the world,
and also due to ongoing development costs at Millennium Materials Inc.The earnings per share figures have
been affected additionally by the dilutive impact of the Rights Issue.
The planned costs associated with the closure or sale of low margin activities resulted in a loss before tax on
an FRS3 basis of  1.5 million and a loss per share of 4.58 pence. As has proved to be the case in the past, we
anticipate that the exceptional costs will, in due course, be more than offset by exceptional profits arising on
property disposals. Furthermore, it is anticipated that the cash generated from this exit programme will be
greater than the cash costs of implementing it.
The Board is recommending to shareholders for approval a final dividend of 3.10 pence.This represents a total
dividend for the year of 4.10 pence (2002: 6.15 pence) and a total dividend payout of  1.2 million, which is in
accordance with the statements made at the time of the Rights Issue.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS - In line with my usual practice, it is appropriate to provide a detailed
progress update on our two key projects: Ecoflex
 
catalytic converter components and Carolite
TM
hard disk
drive substrates.
Chairman's Statement - continued 5
DYSON GROUP plc
Saffil's
 
financial performance can be delivered in the year ending
31 March 2005.
In the current year, improved output is expected to be delivered as a
result of innovative enhancements that have been made to the
existing facilities.This is a credit to all those at the Saffil
 
operations, who have been involved in this project.
CAROLITE
TM
HARD DISK DRIVE SUBSTRATES -
Millennium Materials Inc, the Dyson subsidiary that has developed
the Carolite
TM
hard disk drive substrate, is in the process of
having its products specified by two of the world's largest disk
drive manufacturers on three hard disk drive programmes.These
are due for customer launch at various times during 2004.Two of
these programmes are for extremely advanced drives and would
extensively utilise the physical properties and the electrical
conductivity of the Carolite
TM
material, making it an enabling
technology.
It is also apparent from these programmes that customers can
achieve some significant cost savings with the Carolite
TM
material.
It is therefore believed that pricing for the substrates ahead of our
original assumptions may be achieved if both the cost reduction and
the performance benefits are reflected in the selling price, as would
especially be the case in the higher performing drives.
We continue to be grateful to the world's three largest hard disk
drive manufacturers, which together supply approximately 70 per
cent of the world market for such devices, for the extensive and
continuing support that they are providing both in technological
know how and human and financial resources.They are clearly keen
to ensure that the significant performance and cost advantages of
the material can be delivered.
ECOFLEX
 
CATALYTIC CONVERTER COMPONENTS - 
At the time of the interim statement in December 2002, I indicated
that the Board was confident of the significant growth potential of
the new Ecoflex
 
product. Saffil Automotive Limited, the subsidiary
that developed the product, had received Requests For Quotation
(RFQs ) from many major motor manufacturers. It is pleasing to
report that a high proportion of
the tenders submitted in
response to the RFQs
are being accepted,
resulting in strong
schedules for future
years. We await the
results of other such
proposals with a growing
confidence that the Ecoflex
 
product
will gain a significant market share as the motor manufacturers
increasingly adopt higher performing catalytic converter systems.
In line with our plans for growth, we have now installed four
Ecoflex
 
manufacturing units, two in the Far East and two in
Europe and authorised a fifth unit to be commissioned in South
Africa. We anticipate that, as demand grows, further units will be
required in South Africa (where a substantial part of the world's
automotive catalytic converter industry is located) and that
facilities will be required in the USA as the American motor
industry adopts our technology.
The rapid growth in demand for the Ecoflex
 
product, which uses
Saffil
 
chemical fibre as the principal raw material, has put
significant strains on the fibre manufacturing facility that we
operate at Widnes, UK.The plant is now manufacturing at levels
considerably ahead of its original capacity and, as a result, the
Board has authorised a major investment in new capacity. It is
anticipated that this additional capacity will come on stream in the
first half of the 2004 calendar year, ensuring that strong growth in 6
Chairman's Statement - continued
Progress is also expected in the year ending 31 March 2004 in
withdrawing the Group from low margin activities. As noted, whilst
this will result in further exceptional costs and some reduction in
contribution, it is anticipated to be ultimately cash generative, as
well as margin enhancing.
The Board therefore believes that the current financial year will be
one of significant underlying year on year growth and trading in the
year to date supports this view. In addition, the phasing of demand
for the high performance materials is expected to lead to further
significant value creation in future years.
Tom Brown 
Chairman
26 June 2003
At the premises of Millennium Materials in Knoxville,Tennessee,
progress continues with the establishment of the production
facilities.This is being undertaken in a modular manner to ensure
that the capacity is installed as and when the output is required,
preserving the Group's financial resources.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH - The Group's balance sheet
remains strong. Net debt at the year end stood at  0.6 million and
net assets were  44.4 million, equating to gearing of 1.4 per cent.
It is clear that the new products of the Group will require
substantial cash investment over the next 18 months with capital
expenditure likely to approximate  20 million in the current year.
However, this investment can be undertaken by utilising the Group's
existing borrowing facilities, which are unsecured and without
onerous banking covenants. In addition, cash inflows from trading
activities, property disposals and the release of working capital
from the Thermal Technologies division will also enhance the
liquidity of the Group.
OUTLOOK - The strategic development in the year under review
has been in line with our previously declared plan of repositioning
the Group towards higher growth activities. Substantial progress
has been made in this regard over the last year and even more
progress is expected in the next 12 months.
Given the growth in demand for Ecoflex
 
we believe that Saffil's
 
profits this year will grow. In the following year to March 2005,
when new Saffil
 
fibre capacity is planned, we anticipate further
significant growth. Meanwhile, the costs associated with the launch
of the Carolite
TM
hard disk drive substrate will continue to be
charged against profits in the current financial year with an initial
positive contribution to the Group's overall profitability being
expected from this product in the 2005 calendar year. Prospects for
those products and for the metal matrix composite developments
remain encouraging beyond 2005. 7
DYSON GROUP plc