 6 e-Therapeutics Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview 
This has been another successful year for 
e-Therapeutics. The Company has delivered 
excellent progress on the product pipeline,  
two successful Phase II clinical trial results,  
the out-licensing of three of its drug candidates, 
several strategically important new partnerships, 
successful fundraising in challenging financial 
market conditions and strong development  
of the drug discovery platform. 
e-Therapeutics' goal, to become a principal  
player in the discovery and development of  
a new generation of high-value medicines, 
has been brought closer by the successful 
development of our leading products,  
licensing agreements for them and the  
successful fundraising completed in March  
2009. The clinical and laboratory achievements 
this year have also provided considerable 
validation that the Company' s drug discovery 
platform technology will continue to generate 
effective and safe medicines in areas of unmet 
medical need. 
Clinical success
Over the course of the year, e-Therapeutics 
announced positive data from two clinical 
programmes. The most recent of these  
was the completion of a Phase II study with  
its antidepressant, ETS6103, which is now  
in development in India with KLAB under the 
brand name  Viotra'. The data demonstrates  
the drug is safe and well-tolerated and that  
it is faster-acting and more effective over  
a 12-week period than a standard-of-care 
tricyclic antidepressant (amitriptyline). This result 
offers exciting opportunities to deliver strong 
efficacy with potentially fewer side effects  
in depression, which would be a beneficial  
new treatment option. KLAB, the Company's 
licensee in India, is preparing for a Phase III 
registration trial, and expects shortly to apply  
for regulatory marketing approval. 
 e - therapeutics h a s  
a h e a l t h y pipeline of  
p r o d u c t s in development  
a n d it will c o n t i n u e to  
d r i v e these forward in  
a f o c u s e d m a n n e r , whilst  
m a i n t a i n i n g a p r u d e n t  
e y e on expenditur e .  
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
Professor Oliver James and Professor Malcolm Young
Professor Oliver James
Non-executive Chairman e-Therapeutics Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
In addition, we successfully completed a Phase II 
study with ETX9101, our oral asthma treatment, 
which is designed to reduce the likelihood that 
asthmatic tightness will worsen into exacerbation. 
The results demonstrate that the medicine is 
well-tolerated, that it successfully headed off 
exacerbations and made patients feel significantly 
more comfortable at night. Patients taking this 
drug consumed less inhaled relief medication 
during the trial. We believe that these capabilities 
from an oral medicine in asthma are unique. 
These results offer the prospect of treating a wide 
range of asthmatic patients with the convenience 
and safety of an oral tablet, which would be a 
widely beneficial new treatment option. KLAB, 
which also holds the license for this drug in India, 
is preparing for both a Phase III registration trial 
and to apply for regulatory marketing approval. 
Laboratory developments
The ETX1153 family of anti-infective drug 
candidates has continued to show pleasing 
properties in the laboratory. Indeed, these 
properties were sufficiently strong that KLAB 
sought and obtained the license for India for  
the topical variant of this MRSA-killing antibiotic. 
KLAB is now formulating the topical medicine  
as  Mersanex', and expects to gain approval for 
an important clinical trial in the period covered  
by the next Annual Report. The intra-venous 
variant, which is designed for systemic acute 
hospital-based bacteraemia, and the orally  
dosed C.difficile variant, are being evaluated  
in vivo at present. 
e-Therapeutics is pleased to report continued 
successful performance in the laboratory of 
ETS2101 for the treatment of cancer. Laboratory 
testing shows that the compound is a promising 
selective apoptotic, which causes cancer cells 
to terminate themselves (apoptosis) but does 
not affect normal cells. The tests showed the 
drug was significantly more effective at causing 
apoptosis across a range of melanoma cell 
lines than a standard-of-care chemotherapeutic 
(cisplatin), and did so at concentrations well 
below the no obvious adverse effect limit   
for this compound. Testing in vivo showed that 
a single injection caused long-lasting benefits in 
tumour growth and size. These results provide  
a good basis for proceeding into clinical trials  
of ETS2101 in the next period. 
People 
e-Therapeutics' talented employees are crucial 
to its success and the Company is committed to 
the development of a motivated and professional 
workforce. It is their skill and expertise which 
have enabled e-Therapeutics to achieve its 
progress to date, and there is a very capable 
team to help the Company as it moves closer 
towards approval of some of its late-stage 
products. On behalf of the entire Board, we 
would like to thank our staff for their hard work 
and their continued support, energy, insight and 
commitment. 
Capital position
In these challenging markets, it is important 
to secure an appropriate financial basis for 
the Company. In March 2009, the Company 
received an important investment from Octopus 
Investments, and its related investment funds 
and investors, based in London. The investment 
was structured as an equity investment, a loan 
note and warrant. The Company was also 
encouraged that e-Therapeutics is one of only 
a few publicly listed UK-based biotechnology 
companies that have raised new investment 
during this turbulent period for the markets.
e-Therapeutics adjusted running costs 
downward during 2008/2009, to de-risk the 
Company against the difficult capital markets 
and so generated cash savings in excess of 
our forecasts from last year. Biotechnology 
companies typically take several years to 
reach a sustainable cash-generative position, 
but e-Therapeutics remains confident that 
it will achieve this goal, aided by substantial 
milestones and royalties from our partners as 
our late-stage programmes are filed and come 
to market. 
Strategic positioning
The dynamics of the global pharmaceutical 
industry have become clearer during the last 
year, with a number of large-scale mergers and 
acquisitions aimed at mitigating the effects of 
patent expirations and relatively weak pipelines 
in the major companies. However, these 
developments have not changed the position 
that the ethical part of the industry as a whole 
is predicted to suffer a revenue gap as the 
most valuable drugs go off-patent and too few 
good new premium drugs come to the market. 
Sector analysis shows this revenue gap will be 
particularly pressing by 2013. 
Major companies are expected to be 
unprecedentedly keen to find premium drug 
candidates capable of coming to the market 
quickly. This industry-wide phenomenon 
continues to influence e-Therapeutics' near-term 
strategy which is to develop repositionable drugs. 
These drugs are potentially capable of gaining 
market approval quickly enough to exploit the 
dynamics of the industry's revenue gap. Hence, 
e-Therapeutics plans to continue its emphasis 
on discovering and developing repositionable 
drugs with a robust patent estate into potentially 
important areas of unmet clinical need, where 
premium pricing is appropriate, and to bring  
a substantial number of these candidates to  
New Drug Application (NDA) filings by 2013. 
Repositioning is not easy, but our continuing 
success in discovering surprising new clinical  
uses for molecules that are known to be safe  
is fundamentally made possible by the power  
of our discovery technology.  8 e-Therapeutics Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Outlook 
e-Therapeutics has a broad and innovative 
clinical pipeline that combines mid- and late-
stage pharmaceutical products with earlier stage 
opportunities addressing important market 
sectors, and an increasingly validated discovery 
platform we believe will continue to deliver 
valuable products into the future. Our efforts 
over the coming year will be focused on:
  delivering our drug development 
programmes,
  seeking out-licences to strategically 
important pharmaceutical partners, and 
  refilling our pipeline with exciting new  
drug candidates as some molecules are  
out-licensed to partners who will take  
over their development. 
It is an exciting time in the Company's trajectory 
as we look forward to the commencement 
of registration trials with the asthma and 
antidepressant programmes, partnered with 
and resourced by KLAB. The markets that 
e-Therapeutics targets provide the Company 
with huge opportunities and are significant 
value-drivers for e-Therapeutics. 
e-Therapeutics has a healthy pipeline of products 
in development and it will continue to drive these 
forward in a focused manner, whilst maintaining 
a prudent eye on expenditure. The Company will 
explore partnering one or more of our proprietary 
programmes. 
The Board is pleased to be able to report a 
successful year, in which the Company delivered 
what we stated in last year's annual report and 
we are confident that we can achieve our goal 
of becoming a cash-generative business and 
provide valuable returns for our shareholders.
Professor Oliver James
Non-executive Chairman
24 July 2009 
Professor Malcolm Young 
Chief Executive 
24 July 2009 
Chairman and Chief Executive's Statement
CONTINUED
Professor Malcolm Young 
Chief Executive
 t h e markets t h a t e - therapeutics 
targets pr ovide t h e c o m p a n y  
with h u g e opportunities  
a n d a r e s i g n i f i c a n t v a l u e -  
d r i v e r s for e - therapeutics .  