 It is pleasing to report that
we have made further good
progress in the year to
31 March 2008 as we
move towards our goal of
becoming a major force in
the global animal health
industry.
Group turnover excluding
discontinued operations was  16.5 million, over 12 per cent ahead
of last year' s result of  14.7 million. This was a particularly
encouraging performance as the majority of sales are invoiced in
US dollars, a currency which weakened by approximately five per
cent against sterling during the year. The fall in the dollar masks the
strength of our underlying performance. Profit before interest, tax,
depreciation, share-based payments and other exceptional items was
 2.24 million.
In order to achieve marketing authorisations within a competitive
time frame, considerable expense is involved and during the year
we raised  15.7 million (after expenses) from two share placings,
principally with financial institutions. The first placing was in July
2007 and resulted in the issue of 2,718,500 new ordinary shares at
200 pence and the second placing in March 2008 resulted in the
issue of a further 10,526,316 new ordinary shares at 100 pence. The
placings, together with the scrip dividend alternative scheme, have
greatly strengthened our cash position, which will be invested in the
drug development programme to reduce times to approval. We are
confident that we now have the cash resources to complete the
development programme.
As expected, a number of new and important marketing
authorisations were granted towards the end of the year and more
should follow in the coming months. Achieving these marketing
authorisations is the key to the future of the Company and reflects
many years of planning, product development and field trials.
Marketing authorisations bring real value to the Company, which is
now entirely focussed on farm animal and pet health.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 5.45 pence (net) per
share, making a total for the year of 7.15 pence (net) per share (2007:
total dividend 7.15 pence). Shareholder approval will be sought at
the annual general meeting on 17 September 2008 to pay the final
dividend on 7 November 2008 to shareholders on the register on
26 September 2008. At an extraordinary general meeting held on
14 August 2007 shareholders approved a resolution allowing the
Company to offer shareholders the choice of receiving shares as an
alternative to the cash dividend. Holders of over 65 per cent of the
Company' s shares signed mandates opting for the share alternative
for the interim dividend. The Board is most grateful to these
shareholders for agreeing to reinvest their cash dividend in the
Company and requests that they maintain their mandates as this will
have a significant and long term beneficial effect on the Company
and its drug development programme.
Erratic and disproportionate movements in the Company' s share
price, often on small trading volumes, have caused concern,
particularly among private shareholders. The Company' s shares are
traded on AIM using the London Stock Exchange' s Electronic
Trading Service (SETS). This system was introduced originally in
the main market to handle trades in very active and highly liquid
stocks. We do not feel it is suited to small companies like ECO and
we are pleased to report that on 17 June 2008 we left SETS and
reverted to the previous market maker led system. Arrangements
have been made for the Company' s shares to be traded on PLUS
markets in addition to AIM. We hope that these changes will reduce
volatility in the Company' s share price.
ECO Group
Our core animal health business continued to make good progress,
with sales in US dollars some 11 per cent ahead of the previous year.
Aivlosin , our patented macrolide antibiotic, increased its global
revenues by almost 30 per cent compared with the previous year and
now comprises close to half of total ECO sales. This significant
advance demonstrates the market' s growing appreciation and
understanding of the benefits of using Aivlosin  as a premium
positioned drug. Aivlosin  sales outside of Europe and the USA
increased by 38 per cent over the previous year. Sales in China,
which has half the global pig population, were particularly strong.
Sales of Aivlosin  in Europe advanced five per cent over the level
of last year, which was well below our expectations. We have carried
out a detailed review of our distribution arrangements in Europe and
made significant changes. ECO itself will now be responsible for
selling Aivlosin  for pigs and poultry in the UK and Aivlosin  for
poultry in France. The UK and France are the two largest poultry
markets in Europe. Several new national distributors, selected for
their local market knowledge of the pig or poultry industry have
been appointed in other EU countries. We anticipate that sales of
Aivlosin  will now improve as a result of these changes.
Considerable progress has been made during the last twelve months
with the clinical programme in Europe to support a lower and even
more cost effective dose rate for the treatment of ileitis, an enteric
disease of pigs. Under the very strict EU rules, a higher than
anticipated dose rate was approved for the treatment of this disease,
which has had treatment cost implications in a cost sensitive market
segment. It is anticipated that the reduction in the label dose rate
will result in improved market penetration.
An application for the use of Aivlosin  for treating mycoplasmosis
in poultry was approved by the European Commission after the year
end. Sales should commence in EU member countries by September
2008, after the approval of labelling requirements in individual
member states. Further important Aivlosin  poultry approvals were
obtained in India, Turkey and a number of Middle Eastern countries
during the financial year. A positive effect on sales is expected in
those countries, which export poultry products to Europe. ECO is
confident that it will shortly be granted a marketing authorisation in
Japan for a new claim for pigs.
In the USA the Aivlosin  development programme has advanced
well on all fronts and is progressing in accordance with our
expectations; discussions with potential distributors are taking place.
We remain confident that the granting of US approvals for
Aivlosin  will start in two years time.
2
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Animal Health Group plc
I remain confident that ECO is increasingly
well placed to establish itself as a major force
in the animal health industry.  3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
In order to further expand distribution of Aivlosin  in Brazil, which
is a key market for pigs and poultry, ECO has established a locally
registered Company and as a result, has been able to appoint another
Aivlosin  distributor to complement the existing sales effort. These
actions will have a positive effect on the quality of the business in
this very large market.
Ecomectin , our antiparasitic brand, achieved total sales slightly
ahead of the previous year. New Ecomectin  marketing
authorisations in Europe include a pig premix which addresses a
market worth about  8 million at manufacturer level and provides a
simple solution to the problem of accurately treating a large number
of pigs simultaneously.
Sales of Ecomectin  Horse Paste have now commenced following
its authorisation in a further sixteen countries of the European
Union; the product is licensed for the treatment of adult and
immature roundworms and bots in horses. The treatment of internal
parasites in horses is the largest equine veterinary market segment
in Europe with an estimated value in the region of  25 million. In
Japan a marketing authorisation was obtained for Ecoheart, an
Ecomectin  chewable tablet for dogs. Ecoheart prevents heartworm
disease and is also effective in the treatment and control of
roundworms and hookworms in dogs. Canine heartworm is
potentially fatal and requires a monthly preventative treatment; it is
one of the three key sectors in the companion animal market in Japan
and is estimated to be worth in the region of  10 million at
manufacturer level.
These formulations for horses and dogs mark ECO' s entry into the
valuable companion animal sector. Whilst advance orders and initial
sales have been encouraging, the full impact of these Ecomectin 
marketing authorisations will only be felt in the current year. In
addition to the launch of the chewable dog tablet and horse paste,
work has started on the formulation and development of other pet
medications of potential major importance.
We have started research into further potential uses of Aivlosin  in
production animals other than pigs and poultry. We are optimistic
that the results of this research will, over time, offer ECO the
opportunity to access new global markets. This is an exciting
prospect.
ECO has broadened the scope of its collaborative research
agreement with the Department of Pathology at Cambridge
University in order to allow further investigation of new indications
for Aivlosin . A number of papers reporting this research have
already appeared in scientific publications including The Pig Journal
and The Journal of Virology. Related studies at Iowa State University
have yielded significant preliminary results and were presented at
the International Pig Veterinary Society Congress in Durban in June
2008. A confirmatory trial programme has started and field work to
support these findings is already under way.
In April 2007 Zhejiang ECO Biok Animal Health Products Limited
(ECO Biok), in China, became a subsidiary as we obtained a
controlling interest; this strengthens ECO' s position in this large and
fast growing market. Sales in China, in US dollars, were more than
double the level of the previous year, and exceeded our expectations.
Exports of other finished products manufactured at ECO Biok' s
factory in Zhejiang province continue to increase.
Aquarium Products
This small, non-core US based
division, formerly part of our Interpet
operation, has secured the rights to
the popular 'For Dummies' brand
for ornamental fish medication.
Consumers have responded well to the
basics of fish keeping and the helpful
Fish Care for Dummies range, which
includes books and feed, has boosted
fresh interest in this popular hobby.
Aquarium Products remains the
subject of discussions, which may lead
to its sale.
People
We currently employ close to a hundred people in our 17 offices
around the world; their hard work and dedication to growing our
Company is never underestimated. Our people underpin the
development of the Company and are committed to generating
greater value for both our shareholders and themselves.
Outlook
Trading in the current year has started well and is in line with our
expectations. The recent granting of further marketing authorisations
around the world will impact positively on our performance in the
coming months. I remain confident that ECO is increasingly well
placed to establish itself as a major force in the animal health
industry.
Peter Lawrence
Executive Chairman 25 July 2008
Animal Health Group plc