 ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 
Financial instruments 
The Group's accounting policies for financial instruments and strategy for management of those financial 
instruments are given in notes 2 and 33 to the financial statements respectively. 
Employees 
Application for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration. When existing 
employees become disabled every effort is made to provide continuing employment wherever possible. 
Donations 
2010 2009 
    
Charitable donations - 100 
Restatement of comparative figures 
As more fully disclosed in note 11 to the accounts, the Group's comparative figures have been restated to 
take account of the reclass'rfication of an amount of  1,034,860 from goodwill to distribution rights and the 
related effects on previous amortisation charges, to eliminate dividends shown in payables prior to their 
approval in General Meeting and to satisfy the IFRS requirements that results from discontinued activities be 
shown In one line on the income statement. The directors are confident that these adjustments, when taken 
together, would not affect the user's view of the Group's financial position and results for the prior periods 
concerned. 
Final dividend for the year ending 31 March 2009 
As more fully explained in note 10 to the accounts, an administrative oversight rendered this dividend 
technically unlawful. The directors Intend to have this dividend ratified by shareholders at the next General 
Meeting of the Company on the 28 September 2010. 
Creditor payment policy 
The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with its suppliers and payments are 
made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being mel by the suppliers. The Parent Company 
has no supplies of goods.Trade payables for the Parent and its UK subsidiary at the year end amounted to 
84 days (2009: 75 days) of average supplies for the year. 
Internal financial control 
The board of directors is responsible for the Group's system of internal financial control. Internal control 
systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the companies concerned and the risks to which they 
are exposed. This provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Strict financial and other controls are exercised by the Group over its subsidiary companies by day to day 
supervision of the businesses by the directors. 
Stockbrokers 
Cenkos Securities pic are the Company's nominated advisor and stockbrokers. The closing share price on 
31 March 2010 was 161p per share (2009:160p). During the year the average share price was 167p 
(2009:113.59p). 
Auditors 
The directors having been notified of the cessation of the partnership known as F. W. Stephens, have 
resolved that Reeves + Neylan LLP be appointed successor auditor in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, s.489. Reeves + Neylan LLP has indicated Its willingness to continue in office.  ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 
Statement of directors' responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
the directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for thai 
period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 
- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
- make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
-slate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 
-prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them lo ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation In other jurisdictions. 
Statement of disclosure to auditors 
So far as each of the directors are aware; 
(a) there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware, 
and 
(b) they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors In order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that 
information. 
On behalf of the board 
Mr Peter Lawrence 
Director 
9 August 2010 
-10- ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT 
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
We have audited the financial statements (the financial statements) of Eco Animal Health Group pic for 
the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and company statements of financial position, the 
Consolidated and company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and company statements 
of cashflows, and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company's members as a 
body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement set out on page 10, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatemenl, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group's and Parent Company's circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the Parent 
Company's affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of the Group's profit and Group's and Parent 
Company's cash flows for the year then ended; 
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; 
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
the financial statements have been prepared In accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared Is consistent with the financial statements. 
-11- ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (CONTINUED) 
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ECO ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP PLC 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing lo report in respecl of Ihe following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us 
to report to you if, in our opinion: 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for 
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
relurns; or 
certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
we have not received all in the information and explanations we require for our audit 
Stephen Tanner BSc(Econ) FCA 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of: 
Reeves and Neylan LLP 
Statutory Auditors 
Chartered Accountants 
London 
Date: 9 August 2010 
-12-