   4 Page   
 EDEN RESEARCH PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 
 
Chairman's Review 
 
Overview 
2008 saw Eden's promising technology progressing steadily to commercialisation.  Emphasis was put on 
the following activities: 
 
  completing the key European regulatory process required to allow commencement of initial sales 
of our lead fungicide (3AEY), for control of botrytis; 
  further developing our products for the control of nematodes with a number of development trials in 
high value vegetable crops in Southern Europe; 
  continuing work to exploit the potential of our products for control of spider mites and whitefly in 
vegetable crops; 
  developing new formulation technology to utilise the properties of terpenes to improve ease of use 
to the grower through granule formulation and increased product loading which will allow the same 
amount of actives to be applied at a lower field use rate;  
  identifying potential to control post harvest soft rot diseases for high value and highly perishable 
fruit and vegetables; 
  identifying further insect pest applications for our terpene products in a range of uses both in 
agriculture/horticulture and household and personal care markets; 
  strengthening our relationships with our existing commercial partners to ensure the opportunities 
for our products in the major agricultural chemical markets are fully exploited; and 
  identifying further relationships with potential commercial partners, especially for new fungicidal 
uses of our products. 
 
Bringing 3AEY to Market 
In 2008 our efforts concentrated on regulatory matters relating to our lead product 3AEY. Following the 
submission of the regulatory dossier, 2008 has been a period when the regulatory authorities reviewed 
the submitted data and made their conclusions leading to their interim summary being published in early 
2009. In mid 2008, Eden was informed of a significant milestone in that the dossiers had passed the 
regulatory authority completeness check and the reviews had begun. 
 
By achieving approval for each of the active ingredients in 3AEY, this will lead to significant cost saving in 
terms of both R&D regulatory costs and timelines for new products based around these active 
ingredients. 
 
Our partners in Europe - Redestos and Cheminova - have also been active in increasing the fund of 
efficacy data, with ongoing regulatory testing programmes on grapes in France and Germany, which were 
additional countries to those originally adopted.  These will be repeated and expanded in 2009, with 
further regulatory efficacy testing on crops such as strawberries and tomatoes. 
    5 Page   
EDEN RESEARCH PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 
 
...continued ... 
 
This work alongside Eden's own efficacy testing on grapes has continued to reveal that 3AEY performs 
as well as the standard conventional chemistry at controlling grape botrytis.   
 
 
Nematodes 
Following the screening work in previous years, Eden concentrated in 2008 on testing the three most 
promising products in development field trials in Europe.   
 
The development work, which will be the first step towards a regulatory dossier, examined efficacy 
against a number of nematode species attacking crops including tomato, peppers, cucurbits, beans and 
carrots.  All of these crops suffer damage usually resulting in high yield losses to the growers from 
nematodes and/or are affected by diseases spread by a variety of nematode species.  Results from these 
trials are due mid 2009 as the main yield loss/damage is only visible at the end of the growing season, 
but early indications on crop growth is already showing positive benefits for the Eden treatments under 
investigation, where the crops are looking more healthy than the untreated plants. 
 
Conventional nematode products are formulated from highly toxic insecticides, and several of these 
products will be banned from use in the near future in Europe. There is significant interest on bringing a 
low risk terpene product into this well established commercial market.  Eden therefore plans to place 
emphasis on finalising the best terpene combinations, rates and formulations in 2009, and begin 
registration trials leading to regulatory submission in the near future. 
 
Discussions with a number of suitable commercial partners are therefore ongoing that are expected to 
lead to joint venture (JV) development of this strand of our technology in 2009. 
 
Spider Mites and Whitefly 
Following the successful screening trials of several Eden terpene products in early 2008 on common 
horticultural glasshouse pests e.g. spider mite and whitefly, a number of lead candidate Eden terpene 
products were sent for field testing in key glasshouse crops such as tomato, pepper and beans in 
Southern Europe. As well as showing excellent pest control in the screening, these products also showed 
no or very little activity on a number of key beneficial insects used in glasshouse crops as part of IPM 
(Integrated Pest Management) strategies. Conventional insecticides tend to be very broad-spectrum and 
will kill the beneficials as well as the target pests. 
 
The first data at the end of 2008 confirmed the screening results with excellent control of whitefly from two 
Eden terpene products which was superior to the standard registered bio-pesticide used as a comparison 
in the field trials. The remaining spider mite trials will not be completed until early 2009 and further trials 
are planned for 2009 as part of the first stage of the registration process.    6 Page   
EDEN RESEARCH PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 
 
...continued ... 
 
Other activities 
In addition to our main emphasis on fungicides, acaricide and nematode control products we have 
continued to identify the potential of encapsulated terpenes by: 
  Developing new granule formulations to further expand product usage once commercialised; 
  Identifying further insect pest applications for our terpene products in a range of uses both in 
agriculture/horticulture and household and personal care markets; and 
  Identifying potential use of Eden's terpene products for controlling diseases in fruit and vegetables 
post harvest. Loss of potentially valuable crops from soft rot diseases after harvest is a major issue to 
growers worldwide. 
 
Commercial Prospects 
 
As alluded to already, since concluding the commercial agreement with Cheminova in the first half of 
2007 they, as part of the agreement, have been progressing efficacy trials that will maximise the potential 
for usage of 3AEY in their territories. Field testing in France and Germany is already part completed and 
seven additional territories were added for development in 2009 onwards. 
 
A licensing agreement was signed by Lachlan Kenya Limited for Kenya, Uganda, Burundi, Malawi, 
Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania and Rwanda for use in Food Crop Production and Floriculture.  Lachlan 
are exclusive marketing and distribution agents in East Africa for a number of international principals. 
The licence agreement provides for Lachlan to pay initial and milestone payments totalling USD$250,000 
plus royalty payments once marketing of the products begin. 
Lachlan and Eden will work in partnership together to bring a range of products to the food crop 
production and floriculture markets in these territories.  Following Eden's licensing model, Lachlan will 
undertake the cost to obtain registration of the products in each country which will be greatly supported 
from work done to date on Eden's lead product 3AEY.   
Lachlan's position as a market leader in distribution of agricultural products in East and Southern Africa 
will help Eden's products penetrate existing markets. 
Interest in and support for our technology from distributors, growers and regulators continues.  During the 
period, Eden has progressed a number of potential partnerships of its technology for plant protection and 
also further uses of the IP in new areas such as animal health. 
 
 
 
    7 Page   
EDEN RESEARCH PLC 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 
 
...continued ... 
 
Outlook 
Eden's team has, as highlighted, new project areas for initial testing of both existing and new combination 
terpene products in 2009 leading to continued development and registration of the terpene products in 
global agriculture and horticulture. 
The future of a wide range of traditional chemicals is under threat from the regulators especially in the EU 
with a large number coming up for review between 2012 and 2020 and many expected to be banned. 
This opens up a huge potential for a wide range of uses for Eden's low risk products and the continued 
success of Eden Research plc in developing and registering a wide range of products into the global 
market. 
 
 
Ken Brooks 
Chairman 
16 March 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 