 2
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5 144
Chairman's Statement
Review of Results
2006/07 has been an exciting year during which we have
completed our ambitious organisation development
programme and recorded growth in all of the main
areas of the business.We have also continued to build
our reputation as a leading provider of innovative
technology-based assessment services and vocational
qualifications.
These results reflect the acquisition of eNVQ Limited,
which incorporated a 50% holding in Fusion Media
Networks Limited (Fusion), with effect from June 2007.
The holding in Fusion was subsequently increased to
75% with effect from 27 July 2007.
Results for the year to 30 September 2007 show
revenue has increased by 14.7% to  16.27m (2006:
 14.18m), including a contribution of  398,000 from
acquisitions.The operating profit for the year was
 2.08m (2006:  1.36m).Adjusted profit for the year was
 2.20m (2006:  1.13m), an increase of 94.7%.This
comprises the profit before tax adjusted for the
movement in the onerous lease provision and
amortisation charge on acquired intangible assets.
This performance has benefited from the phasing of the
investment in our marketing and business development
activity. Some costs, planned to be incurred in 2006/07,
will now fall in 2007/08.We also experienced a stronger
than expected level of sales in the UK over the typically
quieter summer months.
Basic earnings per share were 4.2p (2006: 2.3p), and
adjusted earnings per share were 4.1p (2006: 2.2p).
Cash flow
The Group had an operating cash inflow of  1,880,000
(2006:  1,525,000).This performance reflects both the
growth in revenues and improved margins as a result
of the benefits of our organisation development
programme. Underlying operating cash flow conversion,
measured as a percentage of EBITDA (before onerous
lease provisions) was 75%.
In December 2006 1,080,000 shares were purchased by
the Employee Benefit Trust at a cost of  227,000. In
total, the Trust now holds 2,955,000 shares,
approximately 5.4% of the issued share capital, which
provide cover for all current share option contracts.
Net cash payments totalling  729,000 were made during
the year to fund acquisitions.
At 30 September 2007 net cash stood at  3.1m (2006:
 2.3m) which gives the Board flexibility in its funding
options for further acquisitions and adequate cash
resources to support organic growth and a progressive
dividend policy.
Dividend
The continued strong trading performance and cash
generation gave the Board the confidence to pay a
maiden interim dividend of 0.1p in July, and the Board is
pleased to announce that it has recommended the
payment of a final dividend of 0.23p.This brings the total
dividend for the year to 0.33p (2006: 0.2p).This dividend
will be payable on 4 January 2008 to shareholders who
were on the register on 30 November 2007.
Business Development
Strong sales growth has been achieved across our range
of UK vocational qualifications services, despite the
additional work needed to complete the introduction of
our bespoke Campus administration system into the UK
market during the first half of the year.
In the schools market, we are introducing the new range
of interactive assessments which have been developed in
response to the way in which schools use our current
system.We have also made changes to the way in which
we market our schools' assessment services to reflect
the buying pattern of school managers, operating within
tight budgets.
In our international markets we have recorded growth
in sales for the third consecutive year, although the
weakness of the US dollar has held back the increase in
revenue value during 2006/07 by around  220,000.
Performance in the German market has remained
strong and the important Asian market has recorded
growth in the key markets of Hong Kong and Malaysia.
We are continuing to focus on developing local
representative arrangements in our main overseas
markets to ensure we can offer high quality and
consistent levels of customer service and fully exploit
business development opportunities. In particular,
working with our partners in Asia, we are currently
reviewing the future business strategy of Educational
Resources Pte Limited, in which we are the major
shareholder, and the terms of the agency agreement for
the marketing rights for the LCCI International
Qualificiations in the region.We are also pursuing the
appointment of new agents in the Eastern
Mediterranean and Middle East region.
Progress in the support services area has been
particularly strong this year.This reflects the work
undertaken to develop bespoke solutions for the
customers of the i-assess platform and which can form
the basis for long-term contracting and business growth.
We are also continuing to build on our partnership
relationship with our printing and logistics supplier to
further develop and refine our capability to produce and
distribute support materials.
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 2 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
3
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5
Our business development capability has been
strengthened during the course of the year with the
establishment of a business support administration team
at Head Office. In August we appointed a marketing and
communications agency, with considerable experience in
the education sector, to assist with our plans to promote
the EDI brand and our increasingly wide range of
services.We experienced some delays in putting these
new arrangements into place and, as mentioned earlier,
some costs which we had expected to incur during this
year have now been budgeted for in 2007/08.
Acquisitions
The acquisition of eNVQ Limited has extended our
capability so that we can now offer our customers,
particularly those operating in the UK vocational
qualifications market, a sophisticated online system for
the management of individuals' learning programmes
and records. eNVQ has an established customer base
which offers the potential for cross-selling EDI
qualification services.
Fusion Media Networks Limited was already 50%
owned by eNVQ and we have now increased our
interest to 75%. Fusion is a specialist internet service
provider (ISP) which offers its customers high quality
bandwidth and connectivity at competitive rates.The
eNVQ service is delivered by Fusion and a number of
schools also use the service. However, this is a general
service and the customer base is not restricted to the
education sector.
With a significant proportion of EDI's services now
delivered online, there are important benefits to having
 in-house' ISP capability including the ability to offer our
customers for qualifications and support services,
reliable high speed connectivity to ensure that they can
derive the full benefits of using EDI's online services.
On 19 November 2007 we announced the acquisition
of ASET Group Limited, an accredited UK vocational
awarding body.This represents an important step in our
strategy to grow our presence in the UK vocational
qualifications market through earnings enhancing
acquisitions and strong organic growth.
Organisation Development
Our major organisation development programme was
finally completed during the first half of the year with
the successful roll-out of the Campus system into the
UK vocational qualifications market.As our customers
and staff have become more familiar with the system we
have seen considerable gains in the speed and quality of
administration, including in our international markets
where we have been able to localise some administration
which was previously undertaken in the UK.
Supporting our new structure and systems, we are
making good progress towards the achievement of ISO
9001/2000 accreditation and we have also committed to
achieving Investor in People status.
Board and Staff
The Board recognises that the progress made this year
is a reflection of the dedication and hard work of the
staff of EDI in implementing major organisational
changes while continuing to grow the business and
secure new customers.
In July 2007 Dr Jenifer Moody, Education and
Development Director, was appointed to the Board.
Jenifer has held senior management positions in the
organisation for over six years and brings a wealth of
experience and expertise to our deliberations.
Our Finance Director, Neal Gossage had previously
indicated his desire to move on at the end of the year
and will resign with effect from 31 December 2007.We
thank him for his valuable contribution over the past
2  years and wish him well for the future.We have a
strong finance management team and arrangements for
the recruitment of a successor are being put in place.
As well as thanking the staff for their efforts, I would
like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the
significant contribution which has been made by my
colleague Directors over the course of the year.
Prospects
This year's results reflect the full impact of our organisation
development programme, strong growth in sales and some
delays in business development and marketing costs which
will now be incurred during 2007/08.
The early benefit of the acquisitions made in the second
half of the year are reflected in these results and we
look forward to the contribution of a full year's trading.
We continue to investigate acquisition opportunities,
especially in the UK vocational qualifications market, and
this is demonstrated by our recent acquisition of ASET
Group Limited.
The investment we have been making   and will
continue to make   in strengthening our marketing and
business development capabilities will support revenue
growth in the years ahead.
The Board is confident that the strong progress made
this year will be consolidated and built on over the next
12 months and reflected in the Group's financial
performance.
Richard Price
Chairman
22 November 2007
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 3