 2
Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries
Chairman's statement
Results
I am delighted to report that, after several years of trading losses, the Airsprung Furniture Group has returned to profitability.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was  847,000, compared with last year's loss of  1.45 million.  Profit after
taxation rose to  1.47 million, reflecting partial recognition of the deferred tax asset.  Earnings per share increased to 6.1p
compared with a prior year loss of 6.0p.  Shareholders' funds increased to  7.18 million from just over  5 million one year
earlier.
Group turnover rose to  45.3 million, an increase of 10% over last year's  41.2 million.  This more than overcame the sales
shortfall of  955,000 due to the disposal of the non-core Peter Guild business.  Gross margins improved by a further
percentage point and costs were well controlled.  The net cash position improved from  26,000 a year earlier to nearly 
 2 million, despite the payment into the pension scheme of contributions in excess of the agreed schedule.
Operating review
The Group's businesses measured by sales revenue consist of approximately 80% mattresses, beds and sofa beds, and 
20% upholstered furniture, foam products and marketing services.  The Airsprung Beds subsidiary accounts for some 80% of
all the Group's mattress and bed sales, while Gainsborough, including The Windsor Bed Company, and Hush account for the
remainder.
Airsprung Beds is a major supplier to the home shopping sector, as well as distributing through high street retailers and
independents.  It had a strong year. Sales rose by some 19% in spite of intense price competition in the marketplace and,
although selling margins came under pressure, the business continued to improve its buying efficiencies.  This partially
mitigated the raw material price increases for steel, foam and timber, which became increasingly severe as the second half year
progressed.  The high cost of transportation remains a challenge, but the division is taking steps to improve haulage densities
and has entered into useful partnerships with various other commercial carriers.
The Gainsborough division also had a very good year .  Although business with high street independent retailers remained under
pressure, the division diversified its sales effort and made excellent progress with a major department store group.  Sales rose
by over 10% and gross margins reflected careful outsourcing and excellent quality and design standards.
The Hush Sleep Collection, a new venture for the middle market, responded to fine tuning by management and its
performance was much improved during the second half year.  Its results from the start of the current financial year will be
absorbed within Airsprung Beds, which has been given responsibility for this activity.
Cavendish Upholstery, which supplies furniture from its base in Lancashire, had a disappointing year.  Management has not yet
successfully replaced the turnover lost two years ago as a result of the business failures of some major customers.  Sales fell by
some 10%. The subsidiary maintained its profit level, thanks to vigorous cost cutting and a slight improvement in gross
margins, but for the future the building of sales will be critical to a healthy performance.
Airofreem, the Group' s foam conversion business, cuts and distributes foam components to a variety of end users.  It produced
an excellent year's result, due to the high volumes going through Group companies and strong demand from external
customers who account for well over half the aggregate sales by value.  The board has approved a substantial investment in
new machinery to improve production efficiencies and management is exploring further opportunities within and outside the
traditional furniture sector.
Arena Design Associates made a useful contribution to improved brand management within the Group, an objective set out
in last year's Chairman's Statement, as well as supplying outside companies with graphic design services.  The Group's brands
and ranges are now presented with greater clarity, although there are still several areas for improvement which are receiving
attention. Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries       
3
Chairman's statement continued
Disposals
During the year, Sistra Limited, the company which acquired the Group's loss-making Peter Guild subsidiary in October 2005,
experienced financial difficulties and went into receivership.  The original terms of sale called for  400,000 to be paid in
performance-related instalments, together with the repayment over one year of a  275,000 loan. 
At the time of the transaction, the directors took the view that none of the  400,000 principal consideration should be taken
into profits, and therefore no write-off is required in these or any future accounts.  With regard to the  275,000 loan, the Group
has to date received payments totalling  112,000.  It is too early to say how much, if any, of the outstanding payments will be
received, and the remaining debt of  163,000 has therefore been fully written off in these accounts.  While this is a far from
satisfactory outcome, the Group has eliminated continuing losses on trading, which in the six months prior to the disposal
amounted to  276,000.  The directors are in no doubt that the decision to dispose of the business was correct.  
In 2003, the Group sold a manufacturing site in Dursley, but  250,000 was retained in escrow to be drawn down by the
purchaser to meet the remedial costs of land contamination.  As at March 2006, the retention funds totalled almost  190,000.
Following successful negotiations, some  127,000 has now been recovered by the Group, the residue being released to the
purchaser.  
Property
As noted last year, the Group' s mattress and bed operations are concentrated on a freehold site in Trowbridge which covers
about 9.5 hectares (23.5 acres).  This includes an area to the west of the main site of about 2.9 hectares, a proportion of which
the directors believe can be released for revenue creation from business tenants.  This area has now been designated as the
Brick Lane Business Park.  During the year, the board received advice from a number of outside parties, including a national firm
of industrial real estate specialists, which carried out a detailed survey and produced draft plans for development and letting.
The Group has now applied for outline planning consent, and management is preparing to release space for external letting.
The board considered the possibility of an outright disposal of the Brick Lane site, but has concluded that, for the present, 
it should remain part of the Group' s portfolio in order to provide shareholders with future revenues from an appreciating asset.
Development, once approved, will be carried out within phased budgets at a pace which reflects the realities of the local
market.
Pension scheme
As reported last year, the Airsprung Retirement and Death Benefits Plan was closed to new entrants and future accruals, and
a revised contributions schedule was agreed with the Trustees and certified by the Plan Actuary.  In the light of the Group's
improved cash flow and profit performance, the board approved contributions into the pension scheme some  175,000 in
excess of the basic level of the contributions schedule.  It is clearly in everyone' s interests for the pension deficit to be eliminated
as soon as practicable and it is encouraging that the deficit fell from  6.9 million to  6.2 million in the year, a reduction of 10%.
The directors have met the chairman of the Trustees and the Plan's fund manager with a view to continuing to secure
investment returns which will reduce the Plan deficit further.  The board is also taking legal and accountancy advice on other
measures which would improve the Group' s ability to resume dividend payments to shareholders.  
Directors, staff and advisers
The results for the year reflect considerable efforts by the Group' s management and staff, and by employees at all levels.
Making the necessary changes to working practices and business attitudes has not been easy.  Our teams have worked loyally
and with diligence over three difficult years and I would like to express my warm thanks to them.  We have taken some
significant steps towards restoring the Group's viability, though much more remains to be done to meet the aspirations of
employees, pension fund members and shareholders. 4
Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries
Chairman's statement continued
During the year, the board has continued in its efforts to secure appropriate professional support.  Among these moves was the
appointment last autumn of The Royal Bank of Scotland as the Group's new bankers. 
T ony Chambers, who had served the Group for many years as a non-executive director, left the board at the last AGM, and I would
like to thank him again for his service.  Stephen Yates, who has acted as Group Marketing Director during a difficult period of
change, is now able to revert to the role of non-executive director, and I welcome him warmly in that capacity.  I would like to thank
John Newman, who is now our senior independent director and chairs the audit and remuneration committees, for his continued
advice and commitment.
The top management of the Group is directed at executive level by T ony Lisanti, Chief Executive, and T ean Dallaway , Finance Director .
I am most grateful to them for their efforts and wish to congratulate them and the directors of our subsidiary companies on the
year's results.  I hope they will be able to build on them for the future.
Outlook
The UK retail environment is at present reasonably stable, particularly in the mass market sector where the Group is well represented
and continues to find opportunities for growth. There is, however, continuing weakness in the smaller, independent retail sector
which is giving rise to concern.  We are still at an early stage of the financial year, but there is a possibility that higher interest rates
and a slow-down in the housing market may lead to a more general dampening of consumer demand as the year progresses.  
On the positive side, raw material prices have stabilised during the past few months, and management continues to achieve
sourcing and operational efficiencies.  The directors believe that, barring unforeseen circumstances, the Group will make further
progress in the coming year.
Stuart Lyons CBE
Chairman