 EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 
Annual Report 2013
6
 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Dear Fellow Shareholder
It is a pleasure to be able to report on a very strong 
result for EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc for 2013. I would 
like to thank shareholders for their continued support of 
the Group.
Diagnostics 
it's in our blood
of the global IVD market which is itself 
predicted to become the largest sector 
of the medical technology market in the 
next few years.
Molecular diagnostics involves testing 
for specific gene sequences such as 
single base pair changes, deletions, 
insertions or rearrangements in DNA or 
RNA which may be associated with a 
particular disease. The tests target 
specific diseases within a clinical area, in 
the case of the PointMan technology this 
is oncology in the first instance. 
PointMan offers sensitivity levels of 
many times those offered by current 
competing technologies.
EKF Molecular is led by its divisional 
Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Webb, 
who worked with me at the personalised 
healthcare company DxS, where he was 
commercial lead from the company's 
inception until its sale in 2009. Andrew 
has subscribed for  200,000 of 
convertible loan notes in EKF Molecular. 
If these loan notes are converted EKF 
would hold 80% of EKF Molecular and 
Andrew would own 20%. Andrew has 
the option to convert the loan note up 
until 30 November 2017. Andrew and his 
small team have made very significant 
progress during the year, launching kits 
for the enrichment of seven different 
genes associated with colorectal cancer, 
melanoma, and non-small cell lung 
cancer. While these are currently 
research use only, our aim is to obtain 
diagnostic registration in Europe in 2014, 
with the ultimate aim being the 
production of companion diagnostic 
products. Companion diagnostics are 
Strategy
EKF's strategy remains as it was when 
Julian Baines and I bought into the old 
Admiral sportswear business in 2010, 
and that is to create a world class 
in-vitro diagnostics (IVD) business 
through acquisition and organic growth, 
a so-called buy and build  strategy. 
IVD has a wide spectrum, and within this 
spectrum we have chosen to 
concentrate on three distinct areas: 
Point-of-care, central laboratory, and 
molecular diagnostics.
We have succeeded in identifying and 
acquiring businesses in these areas with 
strong product lines and distribution 
networks which can benefit from better, 
more professional management, greater 
resources, and from the synergistic 
benefits of being part of a larger group. 
After making four major acquisitions in 
less than a year in the period up to June 
2011, we paused our acquisition activities 
to ensure the full integration of those 
businesses and their continued 
development as part of a larger group. 
We are now seeing the fruits of this, with 
strong organic revenue growth and 
improved earnings.
Molecular diagnostics
The major step we have taken in this last 
year is to create a new molecular 
diagnostics division, EKF Molecular, 
based initially upon the acquisition of 
the PointMan enrichment technology 
owned by 360 Genomics Limited. 
Molecular diagnostics is expected by 
market research firm Frost and Sullivan 
to become the fastest growing segment 
used to distinguish which patients 
are most likely to benefit from a 
particular therapy.
The most important recent development 
has been the announcement that in 
collaboration with the Institute of Life 
Sciences at Swansea University, EKF 
Molecular has preliminary evidence of 
the ability to detect gene mutations in 
whole blood using PointMan, 
outperforming current DNA sequencing 
technologies. This opens the exciting 
possibility in future of minimally invasive 
testing for the mutation status of cancer 
patients, to allow physicians to target 
treatment more accurately without the 
need for invasive surgical removal of a 
tissue sample. We are working with 
other partners to further validate 
these results.
Results overview
Revenue has increased by 22% to 
 31.8m (2012:  26.1m), with all of this 
coming from organic growth. This 
growth has come from across the globe, 
with almost every territory we operate in 
showing an increase over 2012, and it 
has come from a number of product 
lines, including our Biosen Glucose and 
Lactate analyser range as well as our 
Quo-Test and Quo-Lab HbA1c analysers.
Driven largely by the increase in 
revenue, we have seen gross profit rise 
by 14% to  16.3m (2012:  14.3m). 
Earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation has 
increased to  6.7m (2012:  3.3m), whilst 
adjusted earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, which  
we consider to be the most meaningful 
measurement, and which excludes 
share-based payments and exceptional 
items, has increased by almost 51%  
to  4.8m (2012:  3.2m), giving a 
compound annual growth rate over  
the last two years of 75%.
Cash generated from operations was 
 3.1m (2012:  2.5m). This number is 
lower than would normally be expected 
given our earnings because our revenue 
figures include several large sales to 
Mexico totalling  1.7m which were 
completed and billed in December. 
Collection of the receivables due on 
these sales is expected to be completed 
in March 2014. EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 
Annual Report 2013
7
Management and staff
Apart from the addition of Andrew 
Webb, we have made a number of 
changes to the senior management team.
Richard Evans, formerly Finance 
Director, has been promoted to the new 
role of Chief Operating Officer. He has 
direct responsibility for our global sales, 
marketing, and operations teams.
Paul Foulger has re-joined the Board as 
Interim Finance Director as well as 
continuing with his duties as Company 
Secretary. Paul previously held the role 
of Finance Director for EKF until 
September 2011. Paul has very wide 
experience as an entrepreneurial finance 
director in a number of industries.  
We currently anticipate that Paul  
will become Finance Director on a 
permanent basis in the near future.
Dr David Corr, Head of Research and 
Development at EKF, has been 
appointed as Chief Technology Officer. 
David is in charge of our research and 
development programmes.
Bill Pippin, formerly president of 
Stanbio Laboratory has retired from the 
business. We wish Bill a long and happy 
retirement. We have promoted 
Gilbert Mejia, previously Stanbio's 
Vice President of Sales and Marketing, 
to lead the Stanbio team.
The EKF team is now 330 strong, and 
each of them has had an important part 
to play in the Group's success during 
2013. I would like to thank them on 
behalf of the Board for their hard work 
and the contribution they have made.
Outlook
Being a stakeholder in EKF whether it is 
as a Director, a Shareholder, or as an 
Employee is part of a journey as we 
continue to build an IVD Company 
dedicated to improving patient care 
through the provision of solutions to 
meet unmet patient and clinical need 
and by implication provide superior 
returns. The first stage of that journey 
for us was to take the disparate, 
owner-managed businesses we had 
acquired and instil the professional 
ethos required in a public company. This 
has been completed. The second stage 
of the journey was to drive performance 
in these businesses and the results we 
present today are proof that great 
strides have been made. The time is 
now right to move to the next stage  
of our journey.
We believe we can expand our presence 
significantly in the markets in which we 
operate. This will require us to think 
smartly and act differently as we seek to 
differentiate ourselves in what we believe 
to be the fastest growing areas in IVD.
Also as we move forward we recognise 
the growing importance of both health 
economics and health education as 
being pivotal to the acceptance of new 
products and we are looking to 
collaborate strategically in this area 
so that we address the total 
requirements for introducing new 
products and services.
The journey in 2014 promises to be 
exciting as we underpin the 
advancements we have made in prior 
years and seek to capture the 
opportunities that are in front of us. 
I truly believe that we are in a golden 
age for diagnostics and with ever 
increasing health demands from a 
growing and ageing population, 
diagnostics can provide a key role in 
helping contain costs and at the same 
time improve overall patient care 
through disease prevention, early 
intervention, patient monitoring and 
ensuring the right patients get the right 
medicine at the right time.
We continue to look at opportunities to 
grow our business.
2013 has shown that we have come an 
extremely long way and now have a 
well-integrated business. I am 
confident 2014 will show that we can  
do even better.
David Evans
Executive Chairman
26 February 2014
 Revenue has increased 
by 22% to  31.8m  
(2012:  26.1m), with  
all of this coming from 
organic growth. 