 Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries 5
Chairman's statement 
Results
After a weak first half year of trading, the company returned to profitability in the second half, showing a full-year 
loss of  417,000 (2008:  profit  1.464 million).  Sales for the twelve month period were  42.8 million, a fall of 14% on 
the prior year.  Although revenues in the final six months showed little sign of recovery, the company earned profits 
in the second half year of  304,000.  Thus, although the result for the year is disappointing, it reflects an encouraging 
turn-round, due to early and decisive action by management, who responded with urgency to the sharp downturn in 
trading activity and the unforeseen increase in raw materials and fuel prices referred to in my interim statement in 
December.  The loss attributable to equity shareholders after financial costs and taxation was  507,000, compared with 
a prior year profit of  1.422 million.  
The Group's operating activities generated net cash from operating activities of  41,000 (2008:   177,000).  A 
vigorous stock reduction programme reduced inventories by  1.2 million and capital expenditure came down by 
nearly  0.5 million.  Although creditors fell by  1.8 million due to the curtailment in buying, cash at the year end was 
 1.469 million, little short of the prior year's  1.672 million.  The Group also mitigated the effects of a weaker pound 
by well-judged purchases of euros and dollars to protect budgeted trading margins.  Despite the difficulties in the 
domestic and global economies, Airsprung ended the year with a solid balance sheet.
Dividends
As previously announced, the board took steps to redeem the 10% Preference shares with their full entitlement of 
accrued interest.  The cost of  655,000 was financed with a bank loan at 1.75% above base rate.  The company paid off 
 112,000 prior to the year end.  
The last six months saw an encouraging return to profitability, and in the light of this and having regard to current 
trading the board recommends that a dividend of 0.5p per share, at a cost of just under  120,000, be paid in respect 
of the year ended 31 March 2009.  A resolution proposing this dividend will be presented to shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM.  
Operating review
During the year under review, all the Group's business units suffered as a result of the depressed trading environment.  
Airsprung Beds, which supplies mass-market retailers trading through high street stores, catalogues and the internet, 
was particularly affected by the sharp increase in raw material and oil prices.  Gainsborough supplies high quality beds 
and sofa-beds to independent retailers, department stores and hotels, and its markets were hard hit by the recession.  
Cavendish, which manufactures upholstered furniture in its facility in Chorley, distributes mainly to the independent 
sector and had a very poor year due to reduced consumer demand.  The Group's smaller businesses, Airofreem, 
specialising in foam conversion, and Arena, the marketing and graphic design division, performed satisfactorily in 
difficult markets.  
In addition to responding to the immediate challenges of their sectors, the Group's management teams took steps to 
create new areas of revenue generation, which give the board confidence for the future.  Airsprung Beds has continued 
to win important supply contracts within its sector.  Gainsborough continues to strengthen its reputation as a supplier 
to the hotel sector.  Cavendish was selected as a supplier to one of the UK's largest furniture retailers.  Airofreem's new 
operation in Chorley came on stream and is now consistently profitable.
At the group level, the company signed a new licensing agreement for the USA and Canadian markets with a leading 
American bed manufacturer.  As a result, Airsprung branded beds are expected to be distributed through over 
300 stores operated by one of the largest groups in its sector.  The USA turnover of Airsprung products at ex factory  6 Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries
prices was approximately $20 million in 2008-09;  these sales are not consolidated in the Airsprung accounts, but the 
licensing income will contribute to the profit and loss account in the current year.
In the UK, the Group negotiated the acquisition of the business and assets of Hush-a-Bye Limited, a middle-market 
supplier of beds and mattresses, a transaction which was completed after the year end.  The total cash consideration 
was  300,000, with an initial payment of  30,000 and a deferred payment yet to be made of  270,000, subject to 
certain conditions being met.  Hush-a-Bye had an operating profit of  84,000 for the year ended 30 September 2008.  
The value of fixed assets acquired is  13,000 and the balance of the consideration relates to business information, 
intellectual property rights and goodwill.  
This acquisition will provide Airsprung with a sales team and complementary distribution network which will improve 
the Group's market share in the high street, providing greater penetration not just for Hush-a-Bye products, but 
potentially those of other Group brands.  The transfer of manufacturing operations and back-office systems to 
Trowbridge is well under way, and production is being integrated into a dedicated manufacturing facility.
Cavendish also took an important further step to improve its market penetration.  The business negotiated an exclusive 
licensing agreement with an independent sales agency which has long experience in the supply of both fabric and 
leather furniture.  The agreement will provide a new revenue stream for Cavendish, which will manufacture products 
under its Bymacks brand for onward sale by the newly formed agency.  The agreement was signed shortly after the 
year end.
Directors and staff 
I would like to express my thanks and those of the board to Tony Lisanti, Chief Executive, and Tean Dallaway, Finance 
Director, for leading the management teams in an extremely demanding year, and to the teams themselves, who 
have worked under very great pressure.  I would also like to thank the Group's employees, many of whom have made 
financial sacrifices in the interests of the company, but have continued to work diligently and loyally.  Not least, 
I wish to thank those who, sadly, have lost their jobs with the company due to the depth of the recession and other 
commercial pressures, sometimes after many years of service.  We greatly appreciate the contribution they have made 
to the Group and wish them well for the future.
Outlook
The year under review suffered from sharp and unpredictable rises in the prices of raw materials and fuel, particularly 
of steel, diesel fuel and petrochemical-derived foam.  Although there has been some stabilisation in these prices since 
the beginning of the calendar year, the costs are still considerably higher than two years ago.  It is likely that, as the 
world economy recovers, there will be further upward movements of oil and steel prices, and there are no grounds for 
management to weaken its resolve to achieve further operational efficiencies and rebuild gross margins.  
Currency markets remain unpredictable, and the Group will continue to take careful positions on the euro and dollar 
to protect gross margins on overseas purchases.  The Group is covered at acceptable rates for the first half year and is 
taking advantage of exchange rate fluctuations to put further cover in place.
The trading outlook appears to be more stable, although business activity is at a lower level, but the directors are 
keenly aware that this may be a temporary phenomenon.  The increased levels of unemployment may cause occasional 
downward fluctuations in retail demand for some months to come.
Against this backdrop, the directors are pleased with the way the Group's business units have positioned themselves 
to take advantage of any improvement in the trading environment.  Airsprung Beds has achieved a reduction in 
Chairman's statement 
continued Airsprung Furniture Group PLC and subsidiaries 7
its breakeven threshold and has won new retail exposure.  The Hush-a-Bye acquisition will strengthen the Group's 
performance in the middle market bed sector.  Cavendish has a full order book for the first half year as a result of its 
business initiatives.  The new licensing agreements in the USA, Canada and UK are expected to be sources of improved 
brand presence and profitability, and the Group will continue to look for similar profitable partnerships through which 
to exploit its brands.  The board will be seeking authority at the forthcoming AGM to simplify the company's name to 
Airsprung Group PLC.   
The Group as a whole is stable, well-managed and well-positioned.  Although sales for the first quarter of the current 
year remain generally weak, operating results are appreciably ahead.  Barring unforeseen circumstances, the board is 
confident that the first half of the current year will show a strong recovery with a return to reasonable profits after the 
severe losses of the previous year's comparable period.
Stuart Lyons CBE
Chairman's statement 
continued 