 2
From top:
Stadium terracing supplied by
Bell & Webster Concrete.
University of Hertfordshire
accommodation blocks -
FastBuild  rooms system supplied by
Bell & Webster Concrete.
Ecojoist  flooring system -
Gang-Nail Systems.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chairman's Statement Ecojoist  flooring system
metal webs -
Gang-Nail Systems.
3
I am pleased to report on the Group's performance for
the year ended 30 June 2003.
Group turnover for the year was  37.2 million (2002:
 32.9 million), an increase of 13.0 per cent. Group
operating profit was  1,975,000 (2002:  1,878,000), an
increase of 5.2 per cent. with profit on ordinary
activities before tax at  1,856,000 (2002:  1,736,000),
an increase of 6.9 per cent. Earnings per share were
lower at 2.8p (2002: 3.0p), reflecting in part the
increase in share capital following the acquisition of
Consultec in February 2003.
Net borrowings at 30 June 2003 amounted 
to  2,405,000 (Net cash balances at 30 June 2002:
 464,000), representing gearing of 20.7 per cent. 
(2002: Nil) and reflecting our  4.2 million investment
programme this year. Operating cash flow generation
has remained strong at  2.6 million as has interest
cover, with net interest covered 23 times by operating
profits.
Eleco Building Systems continued to make excellent
progress. Turnover for the Division in the year under
review increased by 9.4 per cent. to  34.49 million
(2002:  31.52 million), representing 93% of Group
turnover. Operating profit, before the allocation of
central costs was  3.34 million (2002:  2.61 million),
27.8 per cent. ahead of the previous year, with our
precast concrete and timber engineering businesses
making particularly strong contributions to this
performance. Operating margins improved to 9.7 per
cent. from 8.3 per cent.
Turnover of the Eleco Technology Division in the year
under review was  2.67 million (2002:  1.35 million),
of which  1.67 million was contributed by operations
acquired during the year; its operating loss, before the
allocation of central costs was  0.50 million (2002:
loss  0.16 million). The task ahead now is to weld our
software interests into a well co-ordinated, profitable
construction software business.
We have now assembled within Eleco Technology a
group of construction software businesses and
programmes which are complementary as regards the
industry they serve and the technologies they use.
During the year we undertook a major reorganisation
of Eleco's existing software businesses and in July
2003, we also completed the acquisition of Softhold
GmbH, which owns the rights to Arcon  the leading
German visual architectural software for  263,000 in
cash. These are all significant steps towards achieving
our objective of establishing Eleco as an international
provider of high quality construction software and
technologies.
Dividend
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 0.85p per
share (2002: 0.80p) payable on 12 December 2003 to
Shareholders on the Register on 28 November 2003.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders, would
result in the payment of dividends for the year
totalling 1.20p per share (2002: 1.15p), an increase of
4.3 per cent., which would be covered 2.2 times by
earnings (2001: 2.6 times).
OPERATING REVIEW
Eleco Building Systems
Precast Concrete
Bell & Webster Concrete
Bell & Webster Concrete, Eleco's pre-cast concrete
business, was able to sustain the progress it made in
the first six months of the year, despite being
subjected early in the second half year to delays in
starting production of a major student accommodation
project. Demand for other products as well as
FastBuild  rooms for hotel projects ensured that the
Grantham plant continued to operate at high levels 
of capacity. 
First orders were placed for newly developed precast
bases for social housing units with a national house
builder. Ground beams, railway platforms and
retaining walls all enjoyed a satisfactory year.
Roof, Cladding and Panel Systems
SpeedDeck Building Systems
The number of roofing projects supplied by SpeedDeck
Building Systems during the year under review was
higher than last year, although a reduction in the
number of major orders received contributed to an
overall 26 per cent. fall in sales. This, together with
increased pressure on roofing margins, resulted in
significantly lower operating profits.  Chairman's Statement
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Demand increased for the successful Vitesse 
composite wall panel with the product continuing to
be installed on Porsche franchise dealerships across
the country. Vitesse  was also supplied to two leading
supermarket chains during the year.
To enable SpeedDeck Building Systems better to
compete in an increasingly competitive market, it has
introduced SpeedZip , a true standing seam roofing
product, to complement its existing SpeedDeck 
secret fix roofing system. The product has seen an
encouraging reception by our customers.
Downer Cladding Systems
Downer Cladding Systems, acquired in May 2002,
continues to be acknowledged as a leading provider of
fixing systems for rainscreen cladding and related
technical assistance; the business made a useful
contribution to Group profits. 
Stramit Industries
I am pleased to say that the measures taken last year
to restructure Stramit Industries' business and reduce
its cost base were effective and the Company returned
to profitability in the year under review. Management
are now actively engaged in seeking new products to
manufacture at Stramit Industries' factory at Eye in
Suffolk. 
Timber Engineering Systems
Gang-Nail Systems
Gang-Nail Systems had another excellent year, driven
by a number of factors, the principal of which was the
increased sales of metal webs for its successful
Ecojoist  flooring product. The number of Ecojoist 
licensed fabricators increased to ten during the year as
the product increased its market share and gained
technical approval from more national house builders.
New versions of the Gang-Nail Truss and Roof
software were released during the year and were well
received. The excellence of its software continues to be
a key element in Gang-Nail Systems' success. 
Eleco Bauprodukte
Eleco Bauprodukte continues to be affected by highly
competitive local pricing but despite this it was able to
maintain its market share in Germany. The continued
investment in enhanced software for its truss
fabrication business is an important contributor to its
continued market penetration. It is also working
closely with Consultec to introduce the latter's
Staircon  and Post and Beam  software to the
German market. 
International Truss Systems
International Truss Systems produced an excellent
trading performance. Sales increased by 44 per cent.
and the Company made an outstanding contribution
to Group profits for the year. 
International Truss Systems' move to its new office and
warehousing facilities undoubtedly enabled it to improve
its distribution, product flow and customer service. 5
Eleco Technology
Consultec became part of Eleco in February 2003 and
made a contribution to Group profit for the year before
the amortisation of goodwill. Consultec UK (Formerly
MBA Computing) made a loss in the year under review,
which included the costs of the termination of its lease
and relocation to other Group premises, as well as
redundancies due to the reorganisation of its
operations. Jason Ruddle was appointed Managing
Director of Consultec UK in July 2003.
Forma Communications experienced cost overruns on
some major projects, which resulted in the Company
making a loss for the year. Leonardo Internet, based in
Stafford, became part of the Eleco Group in February
2003 and has already developed a close working
relationship with Forma Communications. Forma
Communications was also responsible for the design
of our Group intranet, which it installed during the
year. Steven Tolley was appointed Managing Director
of both companies in April 2003.
The o2c software and business was acquired in March
2003 and made a loss in the period.
Management and Employees
Paul Taylor has been appointed Group Commercial
Director, responsible for corporate development and
new product initiatives in addition to his existing
responsibilities as Managing Director of SpeedDeck
Building Systems and Stramit Industries. He was
formerly Group Operations Director. 
Tom Bayne has been appointed Group Operations
Director. He is an engineer by training an also a
Chartered Accountant. He was previously a Corporate
Finance Director at Hawkpoint, the independent
investment bank.
The number of people employed by Eleco companies
increased again during the year. I welcome those who
have joined us and, on your behalf, I would like to
thank all our employees for the contribution they have
made towards achieving these results.
Outlook
We have a sound financial base, strong operating cash
generation and a range of high quality, innovative
building products and software to offer to the building
industry. The Group's established core businesses have
again made excellent progress during the year under
review and have entered the current year with healthy
order books. I anticipate that the task of integrating
our newly acquired software businesses and tailoring
their software programmes to the needs of our
existing markets, with the attendant costs, should be
completed by the end of the current financial year.
Against this background, and despite the current
economic uncertainties, I have every confidence in our
strategy for growing Eleco for the longer-term benefit
of our customers, our shareholders and our employees.
John Ketteley
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
17 October 2003