 Eleco plc /Annual Report 2010 04
During the second half of the year we have taken fundamental 
steps to restructure our businesses and strengthen the Group in 
these unprecedented market conditions. 
As indicated in the trading update released on 28 July 2010, an 
improvement in profits from our software interests was more than 
offset by significantly greater losses from our concrete and timber 
frame businesses, which increased in the second half year as a 
result of further volume reductions and lower margins. The Group 
also initiated a turnaround plan (the Plan ) during the second half 
of the financial year, which resulted in significant additional 
restructuring and other one-off costs of  2.3m. However, more 
than  4.0m of annualised overhead costs have already been 
eliminated and I am pleased to be able to report that the Plan is 
currently on track.
The Plan, which was described in detail within the trading update, 
involves taking fundamental steps to restructure our Building 
Systems businesses, reducing costs and capacity to suit the 
economic environment, increasing sales resources and changing 
processes and structures to meet market demands. 
The purpose of the Plan, together with the continuing anticipated 
growth of our Software businesses is to put the Group back onto 
a firm and profitable footing. Further details are given in the 
Operating and Financial Review section of this report.
Group Performance Summary
Group turnover for the year declined by 18% to  58.0m (2009: 
 70.6m). The whole of this decline was attributable to the decline 
in the turnover of our Building Systems businesses.
Group operating loss before exceptionals amounted to  5.5m 
(2009: profit  0.5m) and the reported loss from operations was 
 5.4m (2009: loss  1.2m).
The Group reported a loss before tax of  5.9m (2009: loss  1.4m) 
and a loss for the year of  5.5m (2009: loss  1.5m), equivalent to a 
loss per share of 9.1p (2009: 2.5p loss per share).
The reported loss includes  3.5m of non-cash items arising 
through depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets and 
the cash benefit of the gain on disposal of a business of  2.8m. 
Total cash outflow was limited to  3.5m. However, an increase in 
provisions to  1.1m will also convert into an equivalent cash 
outflow in the current year.
In the light of the sharp reduction in volumes in the Group's 
concrete and building products interests and the short-term 
prospects for certain of these businesses, the Group has 
moderated its investment in new capital projects and product 
development. Capital investment for the year was significantly 
lower at  1.2m (2009:  2.9m) and we expect this lower level of 
investment to continue in the current year.
The Group will continue to seek opportunities for strategic 
disposals of non-core businesses and surplus operating assets.
Operational Overview
Software
Our Software businesses performed well and contributed 
positively to the Group. Revenues grew by 2% to  13.7m (2009: 
 13.4m). The Adjusted operating profit was  0.8m (2009:  0.3m) 
and the Segment result overall was positive  0.3m (2009: negative 
 0.5m). I expect to see continued improvement in these 
businesses during the current year.
Building Systems
Our Concrete businesses experienced difficulties in the markets 
they operate in and revenues fell by 16% to  26.8m (2009: 
 31.8m). The Adjusted operating loss was  3.9m (2009: profit 
 0.8m) and the Segment result overall was a loss of  5.8m (2009: 
loss  0.6m) as the Group's exceptional items were largely incurred 
in these businesses at the commencement of the Plan to recover 
the businesses' performance.
Our Building Products businesses suffered in the economic 
circumstances and revenues fell to 31% to  17.8m (2009:  25.6m). 
The Adjusted operating loss was  1.8m (2009:  0.0m) and the 
Segment result was positive  0.2m (2009: negative  0.1m) as the 
businesses benefited from the net effect of the gain on disposal of 
our German Connector Plate business and the exceptional items 
incurred in these businesses at the commencement of the Plan to 
recover the businesses' performance.
Disposal of Eleco Bauprodukte GmbH
On 30 June 2010, the Group announced the legal completion of 
the disposal of Eleco Bauprodukte GmbH (EBP ), its German 
Connector Plate business, to Mitek Industries Inc. (Mitek ) for a 
total consideration of  3.9m. The date of disposal of the EBP was 
24 April 2010.
EBP made a loss of  0.5m in the year ended 30 June 2010 and 
the net assets at the date of disposal were  0.1m.
Financing
The disposal of EBP, the significant reduction in capital 
expenditure and the cash contribution from the profitable trading 
of our software businesses have partially offset the adverse cash 
impact of the performance of our concrete and timber frame 
businesses most badly affected by difficult trading conditions.
Accordingly, the Group remains in a robust financial position with 
net bank borrowings of  1.9m (2009: net bank funds  1.6m). 
Chairman's Statement
John Ketteley
Executive Chairman Business Review 
Eleco plc /Annual Report 2010 05
Our total banking facilities of  14.5m from Lloyds Banking Group 
consist of an unsecured revolving credit facility of  10.0m, which is 
due for renewal during July 2012, and an unsecured term loan of 
 4.5m repayable in 20 quarterly instalments commencing during 
April 2011. 
Dividends
Having regard to the Company's current financial position and 
performance, the Board is not in a position to recommend the 
payment of a dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2010 but 
will consider a return to recommending dividend payments as and 
when the Company's trading position and performance permits.
Employees
Implementing the changes noted above in current markets has 
placed significant demands on all our employees and, on behalf of 
the Board, I wish to thank them for their hard work and dedication 
during the year.
Directors
There have been significant changes to the composition of the 
Board in the past year.
Paul Taylor, Chief Executive of our Roofing, Cladding and Timber 
frame businesses, resigned from the Board on 8 October 2009 
after nine years with the Group. 
Craig Slater was appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer 
on 7 December 2009. He has been primarily responsible for the 
formulation and implementation of the Plan for the Group's 
Building Systems businesses and for the operations of the Group 
as a whole. Following the resignation of Fred Newby from the 
Board each of our Building Systems businesses will report directly 
to him.
Jonathan Edwards was appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director on 1 April 2010. He is also Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Tom Quinn also retired from the Board on 30 June 2010, after nine 
years service as a Non-Executive Director and I would like to thank 
him on behalf of the Board for his excellent counsel in that time.
David Dannhauser resigned on 15 July 2010 after more than 15 
years in his role as Finance Director and I would like to thank him 
for his undoubted contribution to the Group over that period.
Tim Sykes of Penta Financial Direction Limited is currently acting in 
an interim capacity following David Dannhauser's resignation as 
Financial Director and, as previously announced, we shall be 
appointing a full time Finance Director in due course. I would 
therefore like to take this opportunity to thank Tim Sykes and wish 
him well on your behalf for his assistance and hard work in 
implementing our Building Systems turnaround plan and in the 
preparation of these accounts.
Fred Newby, Deputy Chairman and Divisional Chief Executive, 
Building Systems, gave notice in March 2010 of his intention to 
retire in June 2011. However, he resigned from the Board on 30 
September 2010 but will continue to support our work at Bell and 
Webster designed to return that business to profitability. I would 
like to thank Fred for his significant contribution to the Group over 
the last 18 years.
Outlook
The Software businesses are performing well with further 
improvement against that already achieved in the year to 30 June 
2010. I expect the momentum in these businesses to continue.
The Building Systems businesses have been through a 
restructuring process that was initiated as part of the 
comprehensive turnaround Plan designed to deliver a much 
improved performance in the current year. Demand in some 
markets in which our Building Systems businesses operate 
remains low and the pipeline is still weak in comparison to prior 
years. However, we have taken significant steps to reduce costs 
and capacity in response to these market conditions and will react 
promptly and with vigour to any further weakening in demand. 
Thus far in the current year, we have been encouraged by the level 
of progress against the turnaround Plan.
I am confident that Eleco has the management at all levels  
to deal with significant challenges as they arise and to take 
advantage of any upturn in the markets that the Group serves.  
I am also confident that Eleco is sufficiently well financed to  
enable it to deliver further growth in its Software businesses  
and to deliver against the Plan for the turnaround of its Building 
Systems businesses.
John Ketteley
Executive Chairman
30 September 2010
Eleco Software