 6 Airsprung Group PLC and subsidiaries
Results and dividend
Sales for the year ended 31 March 2011 were  44.9 million, compared with the prior year's  46.5 million, a 4% reduction 
following the previous year's 9% increase.  Underlying profit before tax for the Group fell to  0.9 million compared with 
 1.0 million in 2010 as a result of the continued challenging trading conditions experienced by the Group as a whole.  
Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation was  0.5 million reflecting three factors which are discussed in the 
course of this statement:  market conditions, the restructuring of the Group's upholstered furniture interests and the 
expenses associated with the acquisition of Collins and Hayes.  The directors recommend a maintained dividend of 0.6p 
per share payable on 19 October 2011 to shareholders on the register  at 23 September 2011.  The corresponding  
ex-dividend date is 21 September 2011.
Sector performance
The board considers that the Group operates in two market sectors; beds and other activities, and the accounts 
show the performance of each sector.
Group sales on a like for like basis fell by nearly 10% in the year and showed a sharp deterioration in trading 
conditions in the final quarter, with a rise in VAT accompanied by appalling winter weather conditions, and further 
pressures on disposable incomes which came into focus as the Chancellor's March Budget statement approached.  
Our sector suffered worse than many, as the purchase of beds and furniture is easily deferred and the squeeze on 
spending was felt particularly severely by middle and lower income families.  
Beds
The economic difficulties hit different sub-sectors in different ways.  Our Gainsborough business performed 
creditably in the middle and upper parts of the bed and sofa-bed markets.  Airsprung Beds, however, had a mixed 
performance; much of its business remained solid and it continued to find new opportunities, but it experienced  
a very sharp fall in demand from a single major customer, which more than offset its successes.  
Management took vigorous action to reduce labour costs in the bed companies in line with demand.  The policy 
of using temporary labour for less skilled work allowed Airsprung Beds to reduce its workforce at little cost.  Raw 
material and fuel prices were relatively stable compared with the prior year, and any increases were offset by the 
use of substitute materials and price increases to customers.  Consequently, Group gross margins were satisfactorily 
maintained as a percentage of turnover.  
Despite the temporary setbacks, Airsprung Beds continued to expand its reach.  It won important business from 
major new entrants into the bed market, which augurs well for the future, and successfully launched a new 
range of Airsprung branded pillows and duvets in the UK market.  The licensing agreement for bed and mattress 
manufacture and distribution in the USA was renewed by our client for a further three years from September 
2011 on satisfactory terms.
Other activities
The Group has four business activities outside the bed sector. These are Airofreem, Arena Design, Collins & Hayes 
and Cavendish Upholstery.
The same reduction in demand seen by the Beds sector also affected Airofreem, the Group's foam conversion 
Chairman's statement  Airsprung Group PLC and subsidiaries 7
business, which did well to hold up its business overall.  Our design group Arena performed well, winning new 
accounts and increasing its earnings on sales which were appreciably ahead of the previous year.
In December 2010, the Group acquired Collins and Hayes Furniture Limited and its trading brand Collins 
& Hayes, whose origins go back more than 130 years.  This business is a manufacturer and distributor of 
high-quality upholstered furniture, based in St Leonards on Sea near Hastings in East Sussex.  It produces 
beautifully designed upholstered furniture, and its customers include some of the most respected departmental 
and multiple stores in the UK.  
The directors approved an initial cash payment for the acquisition of  2.1 million, plus a sum of up to  250,000 
held in escrow to deal with any post acquisition warranty claims. The consideration has been funded by a new 
four-year revolving credit facility of  2.5 million at 2.5% over LIBOR.  The board is confident that the acquisition 
will strengthen our presence in the furniture sector and create valuable synergies with other businesses within 
the Group.
The board has been concerned for some time at the performance of the Group's upholstered furniture business 
Cavendish, which operates from Chorley in Lancashire.  The upholstered furniture sector should in theory provide 
a natural extension of Airsprung's business and provide a sensible and profitable diversification.  The fashion 
element in upholstery fabrics and the short lines of supply and distribution mean that there should always be a solid 
position in the UK market for domestic manufacturers.  However, Cavendish has underperformed in its traditional 
independent market and not made profitable headway in its mass-market initiatives.  
Following the acquisition of Collins & Hayes, the Group has now embarked on a major restructuring of the 
Cavendish operations in Lancashire, with a view to reducing its cost base and increasing its efficiency, quality and 
productivity.  Three directors of Cavendish are leaving the business, as well as about 24 staff and operatives from  
a total of 66.  I would like to thank all of them for their past service.
Provided Cavendish is restored as a viable business, its financial administration will be integrated with the Group 
headquarters in Trowbridge, while operations, sales and marketing will be linked with Collins & Hayes.  This 
programme will be kept under close review, and other business models may be used if necessary.
Financial impacts
From the acquisition date to the March year end, Collins & Hayes achieved sales of  2.9 million.  The difficult 
trading conditions, already referred to, resulted in an operating profit of  15,000 before a bad debt write-off 
of  20,000 as a result of an unexpected retailer insolvency; these goods were sold under retention of title and 
recovered after the year end.  The costs relating to the acquisition at  200,000 were as budgeted and have been 
charged to the profit and loss account.
The total costs of the Cavendish restructuring are approximately  200,000 all of which has been expensed in the 
profit and loss account as operating costs for the year under review.
The impact of these charges on the Group's consolidated accounts has been somewhat softened by a credit 
of  173,000 as finance income compared with a charge of  76,000 in the previous year. This has arisen as a 
consequence of the assumptions used by the Group pension scheme actuary which also impact the Group's pension 
deficit, which fell from  3.6 million to  2.5 million.  It is important to remember that this, essentially theoretical, 
credit reflects a notional assessment of a fluctuating long-term liability.  
Chairman's statement 
continued 8 Airsprung Group PLC and subsidiaries
Chairman's statement 
continued 
Prior to exceptional costs, the underlying operating profit for the Group was  0.8 million compared with  1.1 million 
in 2010.  
Shareholders will note that the Group's cash position at the end of March was  1.7 million compared with  
 2.4 million in 2010.  This reduction does not arise from the acquisition, but reflects new terms of trading with 
 a major customer.  The 2009 comparative was just under  1.5 million.
Directors and staff
I would like to thank all the Group's employees for their efforts in an exceptionally challenging year and, 
particularly, to welcome the management, staff and workforce of Collins & Hayes to the Airsprung Group.   
I thank our executive board members Tony Lisanti and Tean Dallaway for their considerable efforts on behalf of the 
shareholders, and our non-executives John Newman and Stephen Yates for their support and counsel.
Outlook
The current year has started slowly with weak consumer spending for the reasons outlined earlier in this statement.  
Our retail customers have experienced a difficult first quarter which has been followed by further weakness in the 
second quarter.  This has impacted all of the Airsprung Group businesses.  Our smaller business units are performing 
creditably in tough conditions; Airsprung Beds, however, has suffered a further downturn in sales attributable to 
continued poor trading by a major customer.  Against this the Group has benefited from the sales of the newly 
acquired Collins & Hayes.  Consequently, Group sales at the half year are expected to be ahead of the prior year.
Profits to date in the first half year have been level with those of 2010, thanks to vigorous actions taken by 
management.  However, profits for the rest of the first half are likely to fall short, reflecting the deteriorating 
demand at Airsprung Beds.  The outturn for the year as a whole will be dependent on the timing and pace of any 
economic recovery.  In the meantime, management are continuing to take steps to maintain gross margins while 
reducing costs through operating efficiencies and internal restructuring.  The directors regard the current trading 
challenges as short term and remain confident in the prospects for the Group.
Stuart Lyons CBE Airsprung Group PLC and subsidiaries 9
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Directors' report 10-16
 Independent Auditor's report 17-18
 Consolidated income statement 19 
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 19 
 Consolidated balance sheet 20
 Consolidated cash flow statement 21
 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 22
 Notes to the Group financial statements 23-48