 3
Our strategic approach over the last five years has
involved refocusing EMI on the needs and desires of the
modern consumer; aligning our interests more closely
with our artists in what is a rapidly changing distribution
landscape; investing in our people, skills and
technological capabilities; and ultimately setting as 
our guiding principle the selection and development of
and investment in unique long-term artists and musical
content.
Our well planned programme of transformational change
has resulted in the removal of more than  150m of fixed
costs with a further  30m planned and ensures we
operate effectively and efficiently in the new, dynamic
digital consumer -driven environment. These cost savings
have been achieved whilst continuing our investment 
in artist development in both divisions and building our
technological and management capability . Our systems
development programme is well advanced, our
management skill set has strengthened and broadened
considerably while our creative performance has flourished.
This strategy has allowed EMI to remain agile, flexible,
progressive and at the forefront of adapting business
practices.
Our unflinching commitment to creative excellence 
has produced an encouraging blend of established 
and emerging global and local stars and impressive
global reach.
The top-selling artists at EMI Music in the year reflect 
our A&R strategy in practice, with superstars like
Coldplay , Robbie Williams, Gorillaz, the Rolling Stones
and Keith Urban topping the charts around the world,
while a number of our breaking acts enjoyed tremendous
success on their home ground including Dem Franchize
Boyz, T race Adkins and Dierks Bentley in the US, Radja
in Indonesia, Raphael and Diam' s in France, RBD in Latin
America and, Magic Numbers, KT T unstall and Corinne
Bailey Rae in the UK.
We believe that our on-going commitment to investing 
in local repertoire not only provides greater consumer
choice but presents significant business opportunities.
Local repertoire features highly on our top 20 best-selling
albums with Radja, Raphael and RBD selling over 1m
units each. Indeed, RBD' s sales, over four releases,
totalled more than 3m units in this financial year .
As well as our international credentials, we strive for
musical diversity . Our recent performance demonstrates
an impressive breadth of style and repertoire which
includes pop, rock, urban, Latin, country and jazz music.
W e also continue to excel in classical and Christian music.
In addition to the successes among our active roster 
of artists, our rich and deep back catalogue - which
includes The Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Queen, Pink
Floyd, the Beach Boys and Frank Sinatra - continues 
to provide a recurring revenue stream through intelligent
marketing and innovative re-presentations.
Chairman' s statement
Eric Nicoli
Chairman, EMI Group
EMI has had an excellent year .
I am pleased to report that both our recorded music and
music publishing divisions outperformed the rest of the
industry delivering growth in Group revenues of 3.9%
(2.1% at constant currency) and a strong improvement 
in Group underlying profit before tax of almost 13%.
Group digital revenues of  1 12.1m represent a 1 39%
increase on the previous year' s level and account for
5.4% of total Group revenues.
EMI Music enjoyed considerable creative success
gaining market share on a global basis and in almost
every region of the world including the US market. 
At constant currency , the division reported revenue
growth of some 1 .9% with digital sales almost tripling 
in value. This strong performance reflects EMI Music' s
continuing commitment to creative excellence with
successful releases from a broad range of artists which
included 20 album releases selling more than 1m units 
in the year . T opping the list was Coldplay' s X&Y which
sold nearly 10m units making it the world' s biggest 
selling album of 2005 in both physical and digital format.
EMI Music Publishing remained the world' s leading
music publisher delivering constant currency revenue
growth of approximately 2.6%. Digital revenues were 
an important contributor to this division' s growth and
accounted for almost 5% of total revenues in the year .
I believe these results provide further evidence of the
validity of our strategy and the effectiveness of our
management approach. Whilst we are operating in 
a marketplace clearly in transition, it is heading in a 
positive direction and presents us with exciting growth
opportunities in the future. 4
Creative excellence is also the principal driver of EMI
Music Publishing' s success. This division is the home 
to many of the world' s best songwriters including Guy
Chambers, Cathy Dennis, Eminem, Alicia Keys, Kanye
West and Usher and some notable additions during the
year such as Arctic Monkeys, James Blunt and Kelly
Clarkson. This fantastic artist roster - coupled with our
management' s highly regarded ability to gain exposure
for , and usage of, these songs - has allowed our
publishing business to prosper , diversify and create 
new revenue streams. All of this has helped the division
establish a strong platform from which to grow faster 
as the market recovery continues.
Looking ahead, we continue to believe that the increasing
demand for digital music will return the global market to
growth in the near future.
We have been, and intend to remain, at the cutting 
edge of the rapidly advancing digital marketplace by
partnering with a host of digital content distributors and
facilitating the development of a broad range of business
models. With online downloading now well established
and growing fast, and the arrival of exciting new
offerings such as subscription, legal peer to peer and
wireless, our vision of having the ability to present our
content to all music fans, everywhere in the world, 
all of the time is now a reality .
Chairman' s statement
continued
Coldplay 5
Legitimate digital sales now represent a meaningful
proportion of our business and they are growing at an
exciting rate. Indeed for the industry , this growth in digital
revenue has almost offset the decline in physical sales
during the year . Of course, we must continue to take
steps to discourage theft of our intellectual property 
and our efforts in that direction will not diminish. With 
a combination of education, technology and, where
necessary , legal process, we are confident that piracy
can be contained and that we can motivate the vast
majority of consumers to enjoy legal content.
Of course, our achievements during the year were 
only possible because of the extraordinary dedication
and commitment of all of my colleagues across the 
EMI world. People are the lifeblood of any business 
and at EMI we are well served by a world class Board
and senior management team which has delivered
creative and commercial success in extraordinarily
challenging market conditions in recent years. We also
have immensely accomplished staff across the Group
covering the full range of functional skills and disciplines
necessary to compete effectively in our rapidly 
changing world.
And just as we take pride in our people, we take our
social and environmental responsibilities seriously 
and we work hard to contribute to the health and
development of the communities in which we operate.
Our independent music education charity , the EMI
Music Sound Foundation, has continued its support 
for music students, teachers and schools. T o date, 
it has awarded in excess of  2.5m in grants and we 
look forward to its tenth anniversary next year . In
addition, we were pleased to be able to lend our support
to the remarkable Live 8 concerts of last summer , where
a number of our artists also performed, and to a number 
of other important charitable causes.
Our results show that EMI is thriving in its own right 
and, I believe, that we have created a strong platform
from which to pursue the possible acquisition of Warner
Music Group Corp. (Warner Music).
As was announced on 3 May 2006, we made an approach
to Warner Music on 1 May 2006 in connection with a
proposed offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares 
of Warner Music for US$28.50 per share, in a combination
of cash and EMI shares. Subsequently , on 2 May 2006,
Warner Music informed EMI that it did not wish to enter
into discussions regarding this proposal.
We continue to believe that an acquisition of Warner
Music would be very attractive to the shareholders of
both companies. The industrial logic of a combination 
is compelling and the available synergies would unlock
significant additional value.
EMI shareholders can be assured that we will only pursue
a transaction with Warner Music if it delivers meaningful
earnings accretion and value enhancement for them.
Overall, we have enjoyed a year of strong performance
and solid achievement and we look forward with
confidence to making further progress and participating
fully in the music market' s recovery .
Eric Nicoli
Chairman
22 May 2006