 3
It gives me great pleasure to report on trading for the Group for
the year ended 31 March 2003. During the year our business has
advanced in all major product areas, achieving sales well in excess
of  500 million and record profits.
Financial Results
Alba plc (Continuing operations)
Turnover for the year was  525.9m (2002:  434.0m). Profit before
tax was  26.5m (2002:  22.4m). Earnings per share were 43.2p
(2002: 34.3p).These profits are stated after charging amortisation
of goodwill of  0.9m (2002:  0.7m).
Discontinued operations
In addition to the sale of the Dreamland electric blankets division
reported at the half year, we have sold the remainder of the Bush
Internet activities during the year.These divisions had a combined
turnover in the year of  2.1m (2002:  6.1m) and profit before tax
of  0.3m (2002:  17.3m loss).The profit on sale of these
operations was  2.6m.
Alba plc (whole Group)
Turnover for the year was  528.0m (2002:  440.1m). Profit before
tax was  29.4m (2002:  5.1m). Earnings per share were 47.0p
(2002: 4.1p).
Shareholders' funds
Shareholders' funds increased by 32% during the year to  75.9m
(2002:  57.6m). Year-end borrowings were  42.7m as compared to
 43.1m last year, with cash flow from operating activities funding
the substantial increases in business and the construction to 31
March 2003 of a major new UK distribution facility at
Cortonwood, near Sheffield.
Dividend
The Board has recommended an increased final dividend of 7.75p
(2002: 7.1p) making a total dividend for the year of 9.80p per share
(2002: 9.0p per share) which will be paid on  20 October 2003 to
shareholders on the register at 26 September 2003.
Review of Activities
Consumer Electronics UK
All of our companies in the Consumer Electronics field achieved
record sales. Alba, Bush and Goodmans brands are well represented
in every high street and shopping centre in the country.
Bush Radio plc  I was proud to announce last year that Bush
had become the leading UK brand in volume terms for colour TV.
This achievement has not only been sustained, but improved upon
with annual sales across all products approaching  150m. Aside
from the traditional types of CTV, which continue to sell well, the
business has expanded into a highly successful range of flat screen
and LCD televisions and a number of TV/DVD and DVD/VCR
combinations. High volume sales of DVD players were achieved
throughout the winter season and the product has shown record
beating growth both for us and the Industry.
Goodmans  Goodmans also traded very well. Last year we
reported its sales were approaching  70m. In the year to 31 March
2003 sales exceeded  90m. In addition to traditional and new
innovative products launched last year, Goodmans has emerged
during the past six months as the pioneer and market leader of
digital radio (DAB). Sales of this product, which represents the
future of broadcasting, have proceeded well. Another product
which has been developed and marketed with great success has
been Free-to-Air  Digital Set Top Boxes, which allow viewers to
obtain reception of a number of BBC, ITV and other channels,
which are not available on an analogue TV, without charge.
Alba Radio  Alba Radio has also achieved record sales across a
wide range of home audio and portable stereo, karaoke,TV,VCR
and DVD products.Alba's reputation for affordable highly specified
electronic products continues to grow.
Roadstar UK and Ministry of Sound  I am pleased to
report that both Roadstar and Ministry of Sound have shown
good results. Sales in Roadstar UK are now approximately three
times what they were at the time of acquisition of its continental
parent and Ministry of Sound, in its first year, is already established
as a high performance brand, especially in digital and personal
audio products.
Telecoms
Sales in telecoms did not produce the major increases accomplished
in consumer electronics. Nevertheless a sound performance was
achieved across our Betacom,Answercall, Cable and Wireless and
NTL brands. Given patient building and strengthening we believe that
this business will become a major player.
Appliances
This is our second biggest product area and total sales within this
category were in excess of  135m. One cannot make direct
comparisons with the previous year as the acquisition of Pulse
Home Products only took place with effect from 1 October 2001.
All brands performed well.
Pulse Home Products We have successfully absorbed
Pulse into the Group. The Breville, Bush Domestic, Nicky Clarke
and Viva brands achieved sales of approximately  45m and, with a
number of new products now being introduced, we can look
forward to further increases during the current year. The Antony
Worrall-Thompson range of food preparation appliances has
achieved wide recognition and acceptance with its premium
collection of kitchen appliances. The large Pulse premises in
Middleton, Manchester, have gradually taken on Group
responsibilities, especially the servicing of many Group products
under factory conditions in what had previously been the
Dreamland electric blanket factory.
Hinari and Dirt Devil Hinari was one of the big success
stories of the year. Its sales at  28m were a record for this
division. It is a market leader by volume in sales of microwave
ovens, but also sells large quantities of kettles, toasters and other
appliances. Dirt Devil floor care also did extremely well, increasing
sales to over  10m in the year.
chairman's statement 4
Power Products Power products, incorporating Power Devil
and JCB Power Products, is now an important category for the
Group, with sales approaching  30m.We have built on our close
relationship with JCB and continue to look to maximise the
opportunities that exist.
Carl Lewis Fitness  Our latest operation is Carl Lewis Fitness.
Products, which include treadmills, exercise bicycles, rowing machines
and other fitness equipment suitable for home use, are endorsed by
the famous Olympic athlete, Carl Lewis. Locally our consultant is
the well-known British athlete and TV presenter, Roger Black.This
category of products should enjoy growing demand as the public
becomes more health and fitness aware. Products will shortly appear
in the shops.
International
Roadstar Europe I was very pleased to report on Roadstar's
progress last year and am happy to state that during the past year it
has continued to develop well. Sales in Italy and Germany have
progressed and Spain is growing into a major market. Most significant
of all, sales in Eastern Europe have developed strongly.We believe
that there will be significant capacity for further sales growth in the
next few years.
Harvard Maritime, Hong Kong  A number of political
and health factors (the SARS virus) have not made trading
conditions easy for Harvard Maritime in recent months. Despite
this adversity it has still produced a satisfactory performance under
difficult conditions.
Distribution Facility at Cortonwood
We are currently building a warehouse at Cortonwood, which is an
Enterprise Zone some twelve miles north of Sheffield and close to
the motorway network. Geographically this fits very well into our
national network, being approximately half way between our other
distribution facilities at Rugby and Tyneside. This will be our largest
distribution centre to date, is high rise and will be capable of
storage of approximately 27,000 pallets. Construction will be
complete and the site become operational by the beginning of
August.The cost of the development will be approximately  8m.
Disposals
As the sale of the Dreamland electric blankets division was
announced in June, I was able to report on this to shareholders in
last year's Statement. In January 2003 we also disposed of the last
elements of Bush Internet for approximately  1.5 million.
Special Business
You will see from the Notice convening the 2003 Annual General
Meeting of the Company which appears on pages 38 and 39 that
we are again proposing to shareholders the adoption of resolutions
giving the Directors authority to allot shares, disapplying the
statutory pre-emption rights in relation to the allotment of certain
of those shares and renewing the authority of the Company to
purchase its own shares within the limits as to number of shares
and price.
Conclusion and Looking Forward
In my Interim Statement I said that we were confident that the
good business already experienced would continue through the
Christmas period and beyond. I am now pleased to report that
this projection was fulfilled and we traded well through most of
the final quarter, with the exception of the short period of the Iraq
War. Since the end of the conflict trading has resumed at its
previous high levels and sales in the early weeks of the current
financial year have been above the same period last year.
Our Group contains some extremely successful and innovative
companies, managed by a highly motivated team who should be
congratulated on their past and current achievements. We are able
to introduce a constant flow of new products which have broad-
based consumer appeal and our markets are constantly increasing,
both in the UK and Europe. We look to the future with confidence.
John E Harris MBE
Chairman
7 July 2003
chairman's statement