 We continue to pursue our objectives of
growing the business, both organically and
through acquisition, strengthening the
asset base and also by targeting
operational efficiencies in order to be the
lowest cost producer in our markets while
growing our regional presence.
Group turnover increased by 27% to
 111.5 million. Total Group operating profit,
including the Group's share of associates,
increased by 12% to  9.7 million. Earnings
before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortisation and exceptional items
increased by 18% to  19.3 million. These
figures include the effect of the continuing
operations of the Johnston acquisition from
1 November 2004.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
0.85p per share, resulting in a total
dividend for the year of 1.23p per share, an
increase of 8.8% over the prior year. The
dividend is to be partly paid out of prior
year retained earnings, reflecting the
financial effects of the Johnston acquisition
and, in particular, the provision for loss on
operations to be discontinued. However,
the increase is in line with our progressive
dividend policy and reflects the Board's
confidence in the Group's strategy and the
success of its delivery. 
The key event of the year was the
successful acquisition of Johnston Group
PLC. An acquisition of this magnitude and
complexity takes a significant amount of
time and effort. A fundamental premise of
the Johnston acquisition was the disposal
of the engineering businesses. On 18
February 2005, the Group announced the
sale of the main European and Australian
businesses, subject to shareholder
approval and competition authority
clearances, together with the sale of the
North American operations, subject to
confirmation of funding. Both the timing of
these disposals and aggregate gross
proceeds, of approximately  26.5 million,
were in line with our expectations.
The objectives underlying the acquisition
were to create an integrated Midlands
operation, linking the Johnston and
Breedon quarries, and to develop the
existing downstream value added
businesses. This successful business
model is similar to that employed in our US
and Scottish operations. The Group is on
track to deliver the anticipated benefits
identified at the time of acquisition.
Johnston also included a precast concrete
operation which has been merged with
Ennstone's existing building products
business and will generate further cost
savings. An important aspect of this
business is that it will use in excess of
175,000 tonnes of the Group's aggregates
in its operations.
The English aggregates business had a
difficult year in 2004. Reduced market
activity, particularly in the West Midlands,
led to a very competitive environment and
some price erosion, especially in the
second half. However, we anticipate an
improvement in performance as a result of
previous investment in quarry plant, which
has resulted in a lower cost base and the
ability to produce an increased proportion
of higher value, single sized materials. 
The acquisition of Johnston has added two
quarries to our Midlands operation, both
with asphalt plants. These facilities,
together with the planned investment in
two further asphalt plants and five concrete
plants in the Midlands, will give Ennstone a
strong position in this market. This
integrated approach will offer growth
opportunities, significant operational
synergies and an increased market for our
own materials.
Chairman's Statement
02 Ennstone Annual Report 2004
1. Front [c90735].qxd  14/4/05  6:11 pm  Page 2 Ennstone Thistle, our Scottish operation,
produced another excellent result, with
increased sales and operating profits
benefiting from lower costs due to capital
investment and increased spending on
highway maintenance. The Scottish
management team has made great strides
in improving its overall performance and will
continue its focus of growing its presence
in this region and pursuing consolidation
opportunities. The Group's strategy of
developing an integrated business is
progressing rapidly in Scotland. From two
ready mixed concrete plants at the end of
2003, investment has been made during
the year in five new plants with further units
planned for 2005.
In the US, Ennstone Inc. had a very
successful year with increased profits and
sales. Prior year investment has provided
the platform for sales growth while
additional operating efficiencies have
resulted in improved profits, despite
increases in cement costs. Trading
conditions in our market areas of Virginia
and Pennsylvania have been buoyant,
based on record housing starts, and our
business has the capacity for additional
growth. We are seeking to strengthen the
asset base by securing further mineral
resources and by acquisition. 
BEAR Scotland Limited, our associated
highway maintenance business,
progressed well in the year reporting much
reduced losses. Further improvements are
expected in 2005. BEAR's operational
performance has been independently
audited on behalf of the Scottish Executive,
receiving high praise. This will serve the
business well as it tenders for the renewal
of the five year contract in North West
Scotland, in April 2006.
Enneurope plc, our AIM listed associate,
whose operations are located in North
West Poland, also made good progress in
2004. The business made a number of
acquisitions during the year, strengthening
its market position in ready mixed
concrete. On 9 July 2004, we announced
an extension to the put option agreement
with Arlington Group PLC in respect of
Enneurope shares. The exercise period for
this option commenced on 25 February
2005 and expires on 25 May 2005. The
exercise of the option by Arlington would
trigger a takeover offer, by the Group, for
Enneurope as a result of the size of
Arlington's holding in Enneurope.
We achieved a number of notable planning
successes in the period, including the
approval of a major extension to Breedon
quarry allowing a further 16 million tonnes
of limestone to be extracted and
processed. Together with planning
approvals at Burford and Banavie, we have
achieved our 2004 objective of extending
mineral permissions at three times the
annual extraction rate.
The Group continued to make health,
safety and the environment a high priority.
Our successful health and safety
management system is now being
introduced into the US business. With
significant improvements and continuing
management attention to health and safety
matters in 2004, together with our ongoing
investment in training, further
improvements towards our objectives will
be made in 2005.
Following the successful acquisition of
Johnston, I welcome Philippa Marriott and
Michael Johnston to the Ennstone Board
as non-executive directors. They bring with
them a wealth of business experience and
an in-depth knowledge of Johnston.
John Barlow will retire as Group Finance
Director at the end of March, although he
will remain as Company Secretary. John
has been a key member of the
management team since 1996 and the
Board is greatly indebted to him for his
major contribution to the growth and
development of the Group. John will be
replaced as Group Finance Director by Pat
Scannell, who joined the Board at the
beginning of February. Pat has many years
experience in financial roles in the building
materials and construction industries. 
Mark Elliott has today been appointed to
the Board as an executive director. Mark
has been responsible for the successful
development and growth of our US
business over the last seven years. I
welcome both Pat and Mark to the Board.
Gerald Berwick, Deputy Chairman, will
retire from the board at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. I would like to
thank Gerald, who celebrates his 70th
birthday this year, for his contribution and
advice over the last eight years, which has
been invaluable in building the business. I
wish Gerald and his wife Diane a long and
happy retirement.
On behalf of the Board I would like to
thank everyone in the Group for their hard
work, vigour and enthusiasm in 2004 in
delivering another good result. The
successful integration of the Johnston
acquisition and the delivery of further
growth throughout the Group will require
continued efforts from all our employees in
the coming year and I am confident that
we will rise to the challenge.
The current year has started in line with our
expectations and the integration of the
Johnston acquisition is progressing well.
Our Scottish and US operations have
continued their strong performance.
Development of our English operations will
be a key focus over the coming months
and the Board anticipates making further
progress in 2005, with strong growth in
2006 and beyond.
Vaughan McLeod
Executive Chairman
21 March 2005
2004 was a year of significant development for 
the Group. The acquisition of Johnston Group PLC
is a major step towards building a fully integrated
Midlands operation. Excellent progress has also
been made in Scotland and in the US.
Ennstone Annual Report 2004 03
1. Front [c90735].qxd  14/4/05  6:11 pm  Page 3 04 Ennstone Annual Report 2004
1. Front [c90735].qxd  14/4/05  6:11 pm  Page 4