 10
Equatorial Palm Oil plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The mill is strategically important to us for several reasons including:
  training and development of staff - the technology is very similar to that 
in larger mills, providing staff with a solid foundation in technology and 
processes for the acquisition and implementation of larger capacity mills 
to service the future growth in operations and production; and
  early cash flows and establishment of a route to market - as the only 
commercial operating mill in Liberia, this will facilitate the establishment 
of key CPO marketing channels and customer relationships, which will be 
of importance when larger volume production comes on stream.
We were honoured to have the mill inaugurated by the Liberian President, 
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, reflecting the importance to Liberia of the development 
of LPD's project and the implementation of such value adding processing 
technology.
First Sales of CPO
First sales of CPO into the Liberian market occurred during the year and a 
larger sales process is ongoing as the volumes of CPO production ramp up.
Butaw Estate
The main activity at Butaw consisted of the establishment of the first nursery 
and the upgrading of essential facilities including roads, bridges, housing, 
power and schools. The nursery was established in September 2011 and now 
covers over 40 hectares, to support the 2012 and 2013 planting schedules.  
As the second development site, Butaw is progressing well and the Company 
is excited about the excellent future potential of this estate. Our current 
strategy is for Butaw to be planting at a similar rate to Palm Bay by 2013. 
Butaw is located 42 kilometres from the deep water port of Greenville where 
LPD intends to establish a storage tank farm.
River Cess 
In 2010, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU ) with the 
elected representatives of the people of River Cess County in order to work 
with them to develop a significant oil palm concession. The leaders of River 
Cess County are very supportive towards the establishment of commercial 
oil palm agriculture in their county, given the considerable employment and 
other economic benefits it will bring to this region.
The expansion potential is up to 80,000 hectares and River Cess is ideally 
located in-between our existing estates, allowing these projects to benefit 
from infrastructure works at both Butaw and Palm Bay and more importantly 
access to deep water ports at Buchanan and Greenville.
We are now working with local officials in order to convert the MOU into a 
full concession with the Liberian Government.
Financial Review
The loss of the Group for the 12 months ended 31 December 2011 of 
$2,167,000 (2010: $4,401,000) was in line with expectations. Cash held by 
the Group as at 31 December 2011 was $1,329,000 (2010: $6,760,000), 
which did not include cash held by LPD. 
In October 2011, LPD entered into a $10 million term loan facility agreement 
for six months with two companies affiliated with JV partner BioPalm. This 
loan to BioPalm of cash that was surplus to the requirements of the JV for 
the period of the loan, provided the benefit of a significantly greater rate of 
return than is available from deposit with the major banks. The loan was 
repaid on time and in full on 5 April 2012, together with accrued interest and 
an arrangement fee totalling $350,684.93.
In February 2011, EPO announced the completion of the implementation of 
the Joint Venture (JV ) arrangement between Equatorial Biofuels (Guernsey) 
Limited, a subsidiary of EPO, and BioPalm Energy Limited (BioPalm ), a 
subsidiary of Indian conglomerate, the Siva Group. The arrangement injected 
$30 million into Liberian Palm Developments Limited (LPD ), the JV 
company in which Equatorial Biofuels (Guernsey) Limited and BioPalm each 
holds 50%. Additionally, BioPalm will arrange and guarantee a $30 million 
loan facility to LPD.
As the operator of LPD, EPO is applying the $60 million in JV funding to 
accelerate its strategic development plan in respect of its c.169,000 hectare 
land position at Palm Bay, Butaw and River Cess.
2011 saw us entering into a new stage of development, marked by the 
planting of 1,100 hectares of new oil palms and the commencement of 
production of crude palm oil (CPO ) following the construction and 
commissioning of the state-of-the-art palm oil mill at Palm Bay.
Liberia is attracting a significant amount of foreign investment, including in 
the agriculture sector, as the country benefits from further stability in the 
country's political process. During the period Liberia held its second 
successful democratic election with the incumbent President, Ellen Johnson 
Sirleaf, being elected for a further five-year term. 
Operational Review
Palm Bay Estate
The Palm Bay Estate is located 25 kilometres from the deep-water port of 
Buchanan. LPD will be relocating its head office to Buchanan, given its 
proximity to Palm Bay and the importance of future operations at the port, 
where LPD plans to establish a storage tank farm. 
During the financial year, LPD achieved the significant milestone of completing 
the first 1,100 hectares of new planting. This planting has provided an 
additional benefit in strengthening the skills base of the planting staff in 
preparation for a significant increase in planting rates in the years to come. 
This important employee development and training provides a key 
foundation to the successful expansion of operations. The capacity of the 
nursery on Palm Bay Estate has been significantly increased to over 60 
hectares, to support the 2012 and 2013 planting schedules. 
Oil Palm Mill
In May 2011, the oil palm mill at Palm Bay Estate was inaugurated following 
eight months of construction and testing. The small but state-of-the-art mill 
is capable of processing five tonnes of fresh fruit bunches (FFB ) per hour 
and is processing the FFB harvested from some of the 3,500 hectares of 
rehabilitated palms on Palm Bay. 
Chairman's statement
2011 has been another year 
of signi cant progression for 
 uatorial Palm il plc  
(EPO  or the Company ).  11
As at 31 December 2011, cash held by LPD was 
$7,854,000 (2010: n/a), which does not include 
the above $10 million loan to BioPalm which has 
now been fully repaid.
The Community
We have always been committed to the social and 
economic development of the local communities 
in which we operate. Having an operating mill in 
place provides a very important and valuable 
platform to train local workers and increase the 
skills base for future development. Now that the 
mill is producing at full capacity, the employees 
are gaining first-hand experience in the operation 
and management of a palm oil mill. Not only will 
this offset training costs in the future when 
production will increase significantly, but it will 
also be a direct influence on the practical 
engineering, technical skills and operational 
knowledge gained by the employees. 
Furthermore, we continue to support the 
education of local children, requiring the school 
attendance of employees' children, whilst also 
opening the classrooms to children in the area 
neighbouring the estates. Our schools now have 
approximately 580 students with a curriculum 
covering a range of disciplines. 
All of these initiatives mean we are playing a 
significant part in creating a new generation of 
skilled workers to develop the Liberian economy.
Personnel
During the period, we were pleased to announce 
the addition of two key senior personnel in Liberia, 
Mr Declan Griffin as Head of Country - Liberia, 
and Mr Sashi Nambiar as Head of Operations. 
Mr Griffin has the overall responsibility for all 
in-country operations, including the finance and 
administration functions, and has almost 30 years 
of global experience working in similar roles.
Mr Nambiar has 32 years' experience in all aspects 
of oil palm estates and has supervised the 
establishment and development of estates with a 
combined area of more than 100,000 hectares, 
including managing over 20,000 hectares of new 
planting development at Ketapang, Indonesia.
During the period, Mr Peter Bayliss resigned from 
his position as Managing Director of the 
Company in order to pursue other business 
interests, with his Director functions assumed by 
Mr Geoffrey Brown, the Company's Executive 
Plantations Director. Mr Brown has been an 
integral part of the Company's leadership team 
since the initial involvement in the Liberian 
project, and he brings almost 40 years' 
experience in the development and management 
of oil palm estates around the world. 
The Board would like to thank Mr Bayliss for his 
significant contribution to the Company.
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome  
Mr Griffin and Mr Nambiar to our team and to 
thank all our employees for the tremendous 
progress that has been achieved during the year.
Outlook
The palm oil market fundamentals continue to 
look positive, with significant shortfalls in 
production at a time when demand is expected to 
continue increasing. The palm oil price continues 
to strengthen, pushing towards the highest 
recorded pricing in the last 12 months.
I would like to thank all those involved in the 
Company for their significant contribution as well 
as shareholders for their support, and I look 
forward to updating you on the continued 
progress in the year ahead and the creation of 
value for all stakeholders.
Michael Frayne
Executive Chairman
3,500
of existing oil palms rehabilitated
 ursery at Palm ay Estate