 02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
CHAIRMAN'S ST A TEMENT
Highlights 2004 2003 change
Turnover  174.7m  158.9m +10%
Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items  28.0m  21.3m +31%
Profit before tax  20.5m  7.4m +177%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* 26.7p 20.5p +30%
Earnings a share 18.2p 4.6p +293%
Dividend 15.00p 14.75p +2%
Net debt  62.5m  67.1m -7%
* Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account 
and notes 2 and 10.
Y
our company reported a profit before tax,
goodwill amortization and exceptional items of 
 28 million in the year to September 30, against 
 21.3 million for the previous 12 months. Adjusted
diluted earnings a share* were 26.7p against 20.5p 
in 2003.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 10p,
against 9.75p, making a total of 15p, against 14.75p
for the previous year.
Profit before tax was  20.5 million, against 
 7.4 million, and earnings a share increased from 
4.6p to 18.2p.
Second half performance improved on the first, with a
better than expected increase in revenues. September
in particular was a strong month and accounted for a
third of the year's profit*. 
The profits* of many of the group's publishing 
businesses fell due to weak advertising revenues and
the decline in the US dollar. However, advertising
revenues showed signs of recovery in the second half
and there was a continued strong performance from
the events and training businesses. After a first 
half improvement in profits* of  1.9 million to 
 11.1 million, second half profits rose  4.8 million 
to  16.9 million.
Full year revenues were 10% ahead of last year at
 174.7 million, compared to a 5% increase at the half
year. The weak US dollar has had a significant impact
on revenues. The average dollar rate for the year was 
1.81 against 1.61 in 2003, a 12% depreciation. 
This reduced revenues by  14.5 million.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004  03
In general, the group's traditional financial advertisers
have been slow to increase their advertising spend in
spite of better market conditions. Financial advertising
revenues, excluding Hedge Fund Intelligence (HFI), fell
4%. Institutional Investor was the only major title to
increase advertising revenues over the year although
Euromoney, with its best September issue for five 
years, saw a marked improvement in the second 
half. Both titles were helped by strong performances
from emerging markets, particularly Eastern Europe
and Asia. In contrast, the recovery in advertising from
the key London and New York financial centres has
been slow.  
The weakness in advertising meant that profits* from
financial publishing (excluding HFI) fell by  1 million.
However HFI, acquired in August 2003, has performed
well ahead of expectations since acquisition through 
a combination of strong organic growth across all its
products, and the launch of new events and its US
hedge fund magazine, Absolute Return. As a result,
HFI's profits* have exceeded the level necessary to
trigger the maximum deferred consideration under 
the acquisition agreement and a final payment of 
 5.5 million will be made in January 2005. 
Profits* from business publishing increased 
 0.9 million despite a  2 million fall in revenues.
Most of the improvement came from the
reduction in losses at Business Traveller
following its restructuring in 2003. 
Advertising revenues from business 
publishing fell over the year, but increased in the
second half. Gulf, the Houston-based energy publisher,
the legal publishing business, and Engel, the
pharmaceutical marketing publisher, all experienced 
a strong second half advertising recovery. 
The conference businesses had an excellent year,
helped by a better than expected contribution of 
 1.8 million from Information Management Network
(IMN). Excluding IMN, conference revenues increased
25% and profits* rose  3.5 million to  10.2 million.
Euromoney Conferences was the best performer,
increasing profits* through a combination of
expanding existing events and the launch of new 
ones, particularly in Asia. Euromoney Seminars and
Institutional Investor Memberships also had good years.
Adhesion's profits* increased as a result of a good
contribution in the first half from the biennial Vinisud
wine exhibition.
The results of the last three years have demonstrated
the value of conference businesses, particularly ones
that are predominantly sponsor-driven, as a more
robust revenue stream than advertising. This has
reinforced the group's strategy of expanding its
portfolio of market-leading annual events through 
* Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account 
and notes 2 and 10. CHAIRMAN ' S ST A TEMENT continued
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
a mixture of organic and acquisition growth. The
acquisition of IMN in February 2004 was part of that
strategy and IMN's performance since acquisition has
exceeded expectations. IMN is the world leader in
events for the securitization and indexation sectors. 
It made a profit* of  1.8 million on revenues of 
 5.9 million in the seven months since acquisition, and
traditionally makes more than 60% of its profits during
the group's first half. The next deferred consideration
payment under the acquisition agreement is due in
March 2005 and is expected to exceed $8 million.  
The group's training businesses also had an excellent
year, continuing the growth begun in 2003. The
businesses benefited from continued investment in
new courses and marketing to increase delegate
numbers. Revenues increased by 11% to  22.1 million,
and profits* improved nearly  1 million to  4.9 million.
The financial and legal training businesses depend
heavily on the performance of the global and emerging
market financial institutions. Both have increased 
hiring and training budgets during the year which,
combined with an improved travel outlook, have
helped trading conditions. 
Profits* from databases and information services
increased by  0.6 million to  3.4 million. The group's
capital market databases, run as joint ventures with
Dealogic, continued to grow despite tough markets.
The group's weekly financial newspaper, Euroweek, 
is working closely with Dealogic to launch a new
database for the securitization market, as well as 
other news products.
Stronger emerging markets helped ISI, the electronic
information service on emerging markets, to one of 
its best sales periods for several years. Subscription
revenues increased by 14% and in October 2004
annualized ISI subscription revenues passed $20
million. This revenue growth is gradually translating
into profit growth despite the weak US dollar. During
the year, ISI expanded its service to cover a further 
15 countries, bringing the total to more than 60, with
nearly 9,000 information sources now available to
subscribers. In October 2004 ISI acquired the Business
Intelligence division of Liquid Africa in South Africa to
help accelerate the development of its Africa-oriented
products. It continues to seek other acquisitions.
Net debt at September 30 was  62.5 million against
 67.1 million a year before, partly due to the fall in 
the US dollar. The group's strong operating cash flows
helped finance a net spend of  16.9 million on
acquisitions during the year. The group's debt funding
is provided through a bilateral facility arranged by its
parent company, Daily Mail and General Trust plc. This
facility, which was due to expire in 2005, was renewed
after the end of the year for a further five-year term. 
* Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account 
and notes 2 and 10. During 2004 the group has made further progress with
its strategy of driving profit improvement through a
mix of organic growth, new business investment, and
acquisitions, while maintaining tight control of costs
and focusing on high margin products. The acquisitions
of HFI and IMN made a significant contribution to the
group's increase in profits in 2004. At the same time,
the more favourable trading conditions enabled the
group to step up its investment in new products.
Launch costs of more than  1 million were charged
against profits. The benefits of this investment, and the
contribution from high growth businesses such as ISI,
HFI and IMN, will form the base for stronger organic
growth in 2005 and beyond.
The group's strategy was developed with the goal of
more than doubling profits* to  50 million over the
five year period to 2008. To support this demanding
performance target, the Remuneration Committee has
proposed a new equity incentive scheme to replace the
Company's existing Executive Share Option Plan. The
Committee will consult shareholders and the ABI over
this proposed new incentive scheme in December, with
a view to seeking approval for its introduction from
shareholders at the Company's Annual General
Meeting on February 1 2005.
Gerard Strahan, who has been a director for more than
15 years, during which he has made an outstanding
contribution to the growth of both Euromoney
Seminars and Coaltrans, will retire from the board in
December. John Bolsover has previously indicated his
intention to retire as a non-executive director and will
not seek re-election at the AGM. Jaime Gonzalez 
was appointed a non-executive director of the
Company on November 23 2004. He is Chairman 
and CEO of American Orient Capital Partners, an
investment and financial advisory firm based in 
Hong Kong covering the Asia Pacific region. He 
will strengthen the group's growing Asian presence.
The new financial year has begun well. That cannot be
relied upon as a guide to the first half, but in spite of
the weak dollar the directors are confident about the
group's ability to deliver further growth.
Our people worked hard during the year to generate
such improved results. I thank them on your behalf 
as well as mine and wish them an exciting and
prosperous year.
Padraic Fallon
Chairman
November 23 2004.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004  05
* Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account 
and notes 2 and 10.