 Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
04
Chairman's Statement
I am pleased to report that since my statement in last year's annual
report, Alexander has made steady progress in advancing its plan 
to commercialise its proprietary breakthrough AmmLeach
 
mineral
processing technology. 
Alexander's technology is applicable to the extraction of several
important base metals from high-acid-consuming ores in many parts 
of the world. During the year, we have continued to test samples from 
a growing number of projects and engage in discussions with various
companies and groups about commercial adoption of the technology.
Because of confidentiality agreements, disclosure has been restricted 
to those opportunities where we are able to put the news into the public
domain. However, we can say that based on this work and coupled with
what has been announced, the geographic spread has expanded further
to potentially significant countries and regions of the world. 
Importantly, the diversification is not just geographic but also by metal,
covering a range of mineral types. To date, we have tested dozens of
different samples, which has enabled us to create an invaluable database
of know-how and intellectual property. Although some initiatives have
advanced less rapidly than we would have liked, due to factors beyond
our control, our belief in the fundamental ability of AmmLeach
 
to
transform the extraction process efficiencies and economics for many
base metals is unshakeable. 
T wo countries with major potential and where we have announced
significant initiatives are Australia and Turkey, the former mainly for copper
and the latter for copper and zinc. In Turkey, we announced Red Crescent
Resources Limited's ( RCR') intention to investigate the use of
AmmLeach
 
technology for the primary recovery of copper and zinc from
the oxide mineralisation at several of its base metals projects in Turkey. 
At RCR's Hakkari Zinc flagship project in far south-east Turkey, the use 
of AmmLeach
 
as part of a full feasibility study on an optimised process
engineering solution for primary zinc metal production is planned. Also,
at RCR's Sivas copper project in north-east central Turkey, RCR hopes 
to deliver early production through the potential application of
Alexander's proprietary oxide (AmmLeach
 
) and sulphide (HyperLeach
 
)
technologies via technical collaboration. 
In Queensland, Australia, we have carried out preliminary amenability
testwork for Altona Mining Limited ( Altona') to investigate the use of
AmmLeach
 
technology for copper recovery at its Roseby Project.
Encouraging results have been obtained and reported to Altona, with the
next stage pending discussions with Altona. We believe that Queensland
holds considerable potential for the application of AmmLeach
 
technology for copper and other base metals.
Moving to Latin America, we have investigated the application of
AmmLeach
 
technology for the owners of several copper and/or zinc
oxide deposits. An ongoing relationship with Firestone Ventures Inc.
( Firestone'), after favourable initial testwork and scoping studies, has led
Firestone to select the AmmLeach
 
process for its T orlon Hill Zinc-Lead-
Silver Oxide Project in Guatemala. Firestone is in discussions with
Alexander on proposals, dependent upon Firestone funding, for further
bench-scale work, column testing and a demonstration test plant
designed to test further the application of the AmmLeach
 
process to
feasibility study standard. This follows on from Firestone's extensive
preliminary metallurgical testwork on the T orlon Hill deposit using a variety
of alternative processing methods. We are delighted that Firestone has
selected AmmLeach
 
as its preferred processing method at T orlon Hill,
as well as for other potential Guatemala sources of feedstock. We greatly
look forward to working with Firestone to advance its projects.
In the Copperbelt of the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC'), 
one of the most important copper/cobalt AmmLeach
 
target regions, 
we have made a concerted effort to advance the adoption of our
technology. In particular, this included the joint venture partnership
agreement announced with Anvil Mining Limited ( Anvil') on its Mutoshi
copper and cobalt project ( Mutoshi') in the Kolwezi region, DRC.
Progress with this opportunity stalled in late 2011 as Anvil became
subject to a takeover bid, now completed successfully, by Minmetals
Resources Limited. We look forward to discussing the Mutoshi project
with the new owners to ascertain their intentions.
We also undertook AmmLeach
 
testwork for Tiger Resources Limited
( Tiger') on ore from its Kipoi copper/cobalt project in the DRC. This was
to investigate the use of AmmLeach
 
for processing material from the
Kipoi Central Stage 1 Pit, which contains approximately 4,500t of cobalt.
In addition, Alexander completed detailed pilot plant design engineering
for the project and submitted this work to Tiger. We await news of Tiger's
intentions for the project.
Our business objective is clear - to capitalise
on our breakthrough AmmLeach
 
mineral
processing technology. 
Matt Sutcliffe 
Executive Chairman Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
05
Chairman's Statement
continued
Separately in the Copperbelt, Alexander has carried out detailed
investigations of other opportunities. This has included collecting
samples for testing, under our supervision, at the premises of 
MC Process (Pty) Ltd. ( MC Process') in Johannesburg. MC Process is
our partner of choice for Africa and a specialist in the design and
manufacture of minerals processing equipment, especially solvent
extraction plants. MC Process has considerable experience in the
Copperbelt and other countries in Africa and has been working closely
with us to investigate attractive opportunities. The testwork results have
been excellent and, as part of our collaboration with MC Process, we
have jointly moved to establish a demonstration pilot plant at 
MC Process's premises for bigger representative samples which have
been delivered from the DRC. The results from the plant will be
invaluable for design and scale up to a full size commercial plant. 
In addition, the plant will be an excellent showcase for our
commercialisation activities.
We have continued to protect rigorously our intellectual property ( IP'). 
A major milestone in the protection of the Company's AmmLeach
  
IP
was reached when Alexander's MetaLeach Limited ( MetaLeach')
subsidiary was granted a Standard Patent in Australia for a Method for
Leaching of a Copper-containing Ore. This was particularly noteworthy
given Australia's robust patenting regime and status as having one of 
the world's biggest mining industries, with significant potential for our
AmmLeach
 
technology. Our first patent for a Method for Ammoniacal
Leaching was granted in the Republic of South Africa in 2010 and
Alexander recently announced that it had received notification from the
Ministry of Industry of the DRC that MetaLeach had been granted the
same patent in the DRC. We expect regular news flow about our suite 
of patents as our other specific applications progress through the 
various stages of the patenting process.
We announced early last year the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary
Alexander Gold Group Limited, including the former Leon copper project.
The terms of the sale were for a down payment of US$400,000 plus 18
monthly payments of US$100,000, commencing March 2011. According
to the schedule, the last payment due will be in August 2012. As well as
making an important contribution to our overheads, a recent meeting
with the Argentinean purchasers confirmed their intention to bring the
project into production using our AmmLeach
 
technology under licence.
This would be particularly gratifying as this is where AmmLeach
 
was
pioneered. Although the terms of using AmmLeach
 
are subject to
discussion and finalisation, we have already agreed the principle of
granting a licence in exchange for a gross sales royalty and to provide
any necessary technical assistance with the project development. 
Outlook
The world economy and financial markets have been highly volatile.
Market turmoil in the second half of 2011, due to the, as yet, unresolved
European sovereign debt crisis, impacted negatively upon base metals
prices. However, the fallout was not as bad as many had feared and the
better start to global-stock markets in 2012 has seen base metals prices
in general recover notably from the August 2011 lows. The reality is that,
outside of the troubled Euro Zone, global growth has held up well, as
usual fuelled by China, India and Brazil which are the key regions for
growth in base metals demand. 
We look forward to healthy base metals prices in the foreseeable future.
Moreover, given general industry expectations that the demand for the
main base metals, including copper and zinc, will grow significantly   in the
next few decades, we believe that the environment in the global mining
industry for the commercial adoption of our technology will be excellent
and ultimately provide significant returns to shareholders. 
As always, I would like to mark my grateful appreciation for the
continued hard work and dedication of Alexander's employees,
consultants and directors.
Matt Sutcliffe
Executive Chairman
8 May 2012