 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.euromoneyplc.com
04
Highlights
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, the 
international online information and events 
group, achieved a record adjusted profit 
before tax of  106.8 million for the year to 
September 30 2012, against  92.7 million in 
2011. Adjusted diluted earnings a share were 
65.9p (2011: 56.1p). The directors recommend 
an 18% increase in the final dividend to 
14.75p, giving a total for the year of 21.75p 
(2011: 18.75p), to be paid to shareholders on 
February 14 2013.
Total revenues for the year increased by 9% to 
 394.1 million. Underlying revenues, excluding 
acquisitions, increased by 3%. The acquisition 
of Ned Davis Research (NDR) in August 2011 
has helped increase the proportion of revenues 
generated from subscriptions to more than 
50% for the first time. Headline subscription 
revenues increased by 17% to  199.7 million 
and underlying subscriptions, excluding NDR, 
by 5%.
The adjusted operating margin was unchanged 
at 30%. Costs, particularly headcount, have 
remained tightly controlled throughout the year. 
At the same time, the group has increased its 
investment in technology and new products as 
part of its online growth strategy.
Net debt at September 30 was  30.8 million 
compared with  88.5 million at March 31 and 
 119.2 million at September 30 2011. In the 
absence of any significant acquisitions, net 
debt has fallen by  88.4 million since the start 
of the year, reflecting the group's strong cash 
flows and an operating cash conversion rate* 
in excess of 100%. The group's net debt is 
now at its lowest level for more than a decade 
and its robust balance sheet provides plenty 
of headroom for the group to pursue its 
acquisition strategy.
As highlighted in previous trading updates, 
market conditions became noticeably tougher 
from June. The uncertainty over Europe 
remains, as does a solution to the pending 
US fiscal cliff. Meanwhile global financial 
institutions face the combined challenges of 
difficult markets, increased capital requirements 
and a tougher regulatory environment. Inevitably 
they have responded by cutting costs, 
particularly people, and exiting some parts 
of their business. However, the outlook for 
emerging markets, which account for more 
than a third of the group's revenues, is more 
positive. The board expects this challenging 
trading background to continue at least into the 
early part of 2013.
Chairman's Statement
Richard Ensor Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.euromoneyplc.com
Our Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts Our Performance
05
Chairman's Statement
Strategy
The group's strategy remains the building of 
a robust and tightly focused global online 
information business with an emphasis on 
emerging markets. This strategy is being 
executed through increasing the proportion of 
revenues derived from electronic subscription 
products; using technology efficiently to assist 
the online migration of the group's print 
products as well as developing new electronic 
information services; investing in products of 
the highest quality; eliminating products with a 
low margin or too high a dependence on print 
advertising; maintaining tight cost control at all 
times; retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial 
culture; and using a healthy balance sheet and 
strong cash flows to fund selective acquisitions.
Driving revenue growth from existing as well 
as new products is a key part of the group's 
strategy. Since 2010, the group has been 
investing heavily in technology and content 
delivery platforms, particularly for the mobile 
user, and in new digital products as part of its 
transition to an online information business. In 
2012, as in 2011, the group spent approximately 
 10 million on this transition. This level of 
expenditure is expected to continue in 2013. In 
addition, the group has recently started work on 
a project to build a new platform for authoring, 
storing and presenting its content, with a view 
to both improving the quality of its existing 
subscription products and increasing the speed 
to market of new online information services. 
This project is expected to have a capital cost of 
approximately  6 million in 2013.
Acquisitions remain a key part of the group's 
strategy. The most recent was the purchase of 
Global Grain for  5.7 million in February. Global 
Grain's main asset, Global Grain Geneva, is the 
world's leading event for international grain 
traders. The event is held in November each year 
and is on track to exceed last year's attendance 
by at least 10%, while an event for the Asia-
Pacific region was launched successfully in 
March and two further new events are planned 
for 2013.
While the market for acquisitions of specialist 
online information businesses remains 
competitive and valuations challenging, the 
group will continue to use its robust balance 
sheet and strong cash flows to pursue further 
transactions in 2013. Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.euromoneyplc.com
06
Capital Appreciation Plan (CAP)
The CAP is the group's long-term incentive 
scheme designed to retain and reward those 
who drive profit growth and is an integral part 
of the group's successful growth and investment 
strategy.
The terms of CAP 2010 broadly required an 
adjusted profit before tax (and before CAP 
expense) of  100 million to be achieved, from 
a base profit of  62.3 million in 2009, within 
the four year period ending in September 2013. 
The strong financial performance of the group 
meant the initial CAP profit target was achieved 
in 2011, two years earlier than expected. The 
CAP profit target for 2012 was increased to 
 105 million following the acquisition of NDR, 
and this target has also been achieved.
Although the CAP profit target was first achieved 
in 2011, the rules of the plan prevent CAP 
options from vesting more than one year early. 
Individual CAP awards were therefore based on 
the profits for 2012, creating a strong incentive 
for profit growth this year. Accordingly, the first 
50% of CAP awards will vest in February 2013 
and be satisfied by the issue of approximately 3.5 
million new ordinary shares and  15 million in 
cash. The second 50% of CAP awards is subject 
to an additional performance test for 2013 and 
will vest in February 2014 provided the additional 
performance test is satisfied, thereby providing 
further incentive for profit growth in 2013.
The board believes the CAP has been an 
important driver of the fivefold increase in the 
group's profits since it was introduced in 2004. 
Subject to shareholder approval, the board 
expects to put a new long-term incentive plan 
in place from 2014.
Management
On October 15 2012, the company announced 
the sad news of the death of its chairman, 
Padraic Fallon, after a long battle with cancer. 
He had worked for the company for nearly 40 
years and been executive chairman since 1992.
Mr Fallon had already announced his intention 
to retire at the AGM in January 2013, and a 
succession plan was announced in August after 
consultation with shareholders. Under this plan, 
I would assume the role of executive chairman 
and Christopher Fordham, an executive director 
since 2003 and the director responsible for the 
group's acquisition strategy, would take over 
my responsibilities as managing director. This 
succession plan has now been implemented. 
Further changes to the board are anticipated 
over the next few months, including the 
appointment of at least one new independent 
non-executive director.
Outlook
The uncertainty over Europe remains, as does a 
solution to the pending US fiscal cliff. Meanwhile 
global financial institutions face the combined 
challenges of difficult markets, increased 
capital requirements and a tougher regulatory 
environment. Inevitably they have responded 
by cutting costs, particularly people, and exiting 
some parts of their business. The board expects 
this challenging trading background to continue 
at least into the early part of 2013.
Subscriptions account for half the group's 
revenues and therefore provide some protection 
against weak markets in 2013, as does the 
group's reliance on emerging markets for 
more than a third of its revenues. However, 
the negative trends in advertising and delegate 
revenues in the last quarter are expected to 
continue into the first quarter of financial 
year 2013, although the outlook for event 
sponsorship is more positive. First quarter 
trading has started in line with the board's 
expectations but as usual at this time, forward 
revenue visibility beyond the first quarter is 
limited, other than for subscriptions.
For 2013, the group plans to continue 
its programme of investing in the digital 
transformation of its publishing businesses and 
in improving the quality of its products. The 
board is confident its strategy for investing in 
new products and digital publishing and using 
its strong balance sheet to fund acquisitions, 
its exposure to emerging markets, and its tight 
control of operating costs will continue to sustain 
it through these difficult market conditions. 
As the world economy begins an albeit slow 
recovery, financial and other markets will also 
gradually improve, enhancing our prospects.
Richard Ensor
Chairman
November 14 2012
*  The operating cash conversion rate is the percentage 
by which cash generated from operations covers 
adjusted operating profit.
Chairman's Statement
continued