 CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
2 EUROPEAN DIAMONDS PLC   Annual Report 2003
We are pleased to present our review to shareholders.
During the year the Company continued to make progress with its exploration efforts in Finland, where its principal
project is located at Lentiira. The Company also carried out further exploration on its regional projects elsewhere
in Finland. Results of our exploration activities remain positive and provide us with considerable encouragement
that we will achieve success in Finland.
Since the year end, we have taken a significant step forward in our aspirations to become a diamond producer,
with the acquisition of MineGem Inc.
OPERATIONS
On 8 October 2003, we issued a Circular to shareholders in relation to the Extraordinary General Meeting held on
31 October 2003. In the Circular, we provided a comprehensive operational review on our exploration activities in
Finland and reproduced a report by A C A Howe International Limited (Howe ), the Company's independent
consulting geologists. Howe's report provided an independent assessment of our exploration results in Finland and
recommendations for future work programmes. The significant information concerning our Finnish operations is,
therefore, already in the hands of shareholders.
To date the Company has identified seven separate areas over a distance of some 500 kilometres within central
and northern Finland where positive indicator minerals have been discovered.
At Lentiira, the Company has now discovered high quality indicator minerals, diamonds and kimberlites. In June
this year, we carried out mini bulk sampling at a kimberlite fissure at Lentiira, where we had discovered a suite of
indicator minerals that commonly occurs in most economic diamondiferous kimberlites around the world. The mini
bulk sample from the fissure yielded a large number of prospective indicator minerals but no diamonds. However,
in its report, Howe has stated that the work at Lentiira to date confirms the diamond prospectivity of the Lentiira
region as a whole and more specifically the target areas currently identified . Howe also stated that the kimberlite
fissure system...does not appear to be the source of the KI (Kimberlite Indicator) train termed the Railway
Anomaly  and the train width indicates a source width...at least an order of magnitude higher than the dykes so
far identified . Howe recommends that further close spaced geophysics be carried out over selected targets and
drill tested with larger diameter mechanisms. Howe concludes that the understanding of transport systems and
geophysical responses gained during the exploration to date suggests that there is a strong likelihood that EPD (the
Company) will locate diamondiferous source rocks at Lentiira . The Company is planning further geophysics and
drilling this winter to complete the recommended work.
The Company's regional projects were also reviewed by Howe who noted that several strong targets have been
outlined . The Company has recovered diamond prospective indicator mineral from six areas in several glacial
trains. A follow up programme of ground geophysics and drilling is in progress.
ACQUISITION OF MINEGEM INC.
On 29 September 2003, the Company announced that it had made an offer for MineGem Inc (MineGem ), a
Canadian company listed on the Toronto TSX Venture Exchange. MineGem owns interests in two proven diamond
bearing kimberlite pipes located in the Kingdom of Lesotho in Southern Africa.
The offer was one ordinary share of 5p each of the Company for every 10 common shares of MineGem. The offer
was subject to a number of conditions, including the approval of shareholders of the Company. At the Extraordinary
General Meeting held on 31 October 2003, the offer for MineGem was approved along with other business
transacted. On 4 November 2003, the Company announced that it had received acceptances in respect of common shares of
MineGem amounting to approximately 93.2% of its issued share capital; the Company declared its offer for
MineGem unconditional and stated that it intended to exercise its rights to acquire the balance of MineGem's
shares in issue by way of compulsory acquisition. The process of compulsory acquisition has been initiated.
In connection with the acquisition for MineGem, the Company will issue a maximum of 4,987,958 ordinary shares
of 5p each, which represents approximately 20% of the enlarged issued share capital of the Company.
MineGem has interests in a mining lease from the Government of Lesotho (GoL ) for exploitation of a high-grade
diamondiferous kimberlite pipe designated as the Satellite Pipe Project , as well as an exclusive prospecting
licence for a larger diamond bearing kimberlite adjacent to the Satellite Pipe and designated the Main Pipe
Project . The Satellite Pipe, in which MineGem has a 65% economic interest, is projected to produce 290,000
carats per year and, subject to the provision of the necessary funding, could be operational within nine months
from the start of construction, which is expected to be in early 2004. Revenues from the Satellite Pipe are projected
at US$12 million per annum with an initial life of mine of 5 years. The Main Pipe Project , in which MineGem has
a 90% economic interest, is a 9.5 hectare kimberlite pipe, which has already been the subject of a 13,500 tonne
bulk sample that confirmed its potential to generate 700,000 carats per year, providing annual cash flow of around
US$45 million. 
The Company commissioned Howe to provide an independent technical review of the Lesotho kimberlites of
MineGem. This review was included in the Circular referred to above.
The Company has arranged a US$10 million credit facility to fund the development of the Satellite Pipe which it
believes will satisfy the requirements of the GoL for financing the project.
FINANCIAL
The consolidated net loss after taxation of the Group in respect of the year ended 30 June 2003 amounted to
 623,000 (loss per share 3.5p) compared to the consolidated net loss after taxation for 2002 of  609,000 (loss per
share 3.7p)
The Group's only source of income during the year arose from bank deposit interest, which amounted to  29,000
(2002:  39,000). The reduction in this income for the year, as compared to 2002, reflects the lower level of cash
balances held by the Group throughout much of the year. 
The net assets of the Group amounted to approximately  5.4 million as at the year end (2002:  4.3 million) which
include intangible assets amounting to approximately  4.8 million (2002:  2.9 million). Intangible assets relate to
accumulated deferred exploration and evaluation costs in respect of the Group's mineral properties in Finland. The
Group has adopted an accounting policy whereby these costs are capitalised pending determination of the
feasibility of the project to which they relate.
In March 2003, the Company completed a private placement of 2 million ordinary shares with institutional investors,
at a price of 75p per share, to which 1 million free warrants were attached. The warrants are exercisable up to
March 2004 at a subscription price of 115p per share. The placement raised approximately  1.4 million, net of
expenses. The Company has recently completed a further private placement of 1.5 million ordinary shares with
institutional and other investors, at a price of 70p per share, to which 750,000 free warrants were attached. These
warrants are exercisable up to October 2004 at a subscription price of 80p per share. The placement raised
approximately  1.05 million to finance the Company's diamond exploration activities as well as general overheads.
As the Company does not generate any trading revenues it is reliant upon equity finance to fund its exploration
activities. In common with many exploration companies, the Company raises finance in discrete tranches to fund
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW - continued
3 EUROPEAN DIAMONDS PLC   Annual Report 2003 its exploration and evaluation programmes over limited periods. We currently believe that the Company has
sufficient financial resources to fund, for the next 12 months, its exploration activities in Finland and general
overhead costs. However, further funding will be required in due course for the Company's operations and those
of MineGem, save in respect of the Satellite Pipe Project for which a credit facility has been arranged. 
OUTLOOK
The future of the Company will continue to depend on the results of our efforts to develop our projects as well as
on our ability to continue to raise finance when needed. However, the potential in both Finland and Lesotho is, in
our opinion, exceptional.
We believe that in Finland we have some of the best geological real estate for diamonds that remains in the world,
in a diamond province in North West Europe proven to contain world class diamond deposits. Our exploration will
continue apace and we remain confident of eventual success. 
The acquisition of MineGem has provided us with a significant opportunity to create a mid-tier diamond company
owning near term production potential approaching 200,000 carats annually, with further potential, in a few years
time, to expand towards 1 million carats annually. 
The coming year will, without doubt, provide us with new challenges as we move forward. However, we believe that
the expanded group provides our shareholders, including former MineGem shareholders, with the prospect of
participating in an exciting growth story in the diamond sector.
Finally, we would like to extend our thanks to our shareholders, employees and everyone else who has worked with
us, for their continued support and efforts.
A J Williams R G S Spencer
Chairman Chief Executive
17 November 2003
Note:
Copies of the Circular referred to in this Review are available on request to The Secretary, European Diamonds PLC,
22 Grosvenor Square, London W1K 6LF or e-mail to enquiries@europeandiamondsplc.com or from the Company's
website: www.europeandiamondsplc.com
4 EUROPEAN DIAMONDS PLC   Annual Report 2003
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW - continued