 02 European Nickel PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
	 The	forestry	permit	and	financing	
agreement	for	 alda 	will	enable	us	
to	build	the	world's	first	commercial	
nickel laterite heap leach operation. 
chairman's statement Dear shareholder,
I am delighted to begin this year's review 
with the good news that we have received 
approval of the long-awaited forestry 
permit for our  alda  project in T urkey. 
We can now begin work on finalising the 
project's funding, which is expected to be 
concluded during 2009, with a view to 
commencing project development during 
the latter half of the year.
Alongside this, during the year we 
also continued to grow our resource 
base and strengthen our position in 
the Philippines with Rusina Mining NL 
(Rusina), through the acquisition 
of a strategic stake in Toledo Mining 
Corporation Plc (Toledo). The Philippines 
now offers great prospects for the long-term 
future of the Company, with a combined 
annual production potential of over 
50,000 tonnes of nickel from our three 
projects there, which are planned to be 
developed over the next three to five years. 
This will complement the 20,000 tonnes 
per annum targeted from  alda .
Our strategy Representing over 70% of the world's 
nickel resources in the ground, nickel 
laterites are increasingly becoming the 
source of global nickel production and, 
despite the current market downturn, 
nickel will continue to be needed in the 
production of stainless steel, as well as 
the growing new applications such as 
mobile phones, MP3 players and hybrid 
car batteries. The key to success for any 
nickel producer is to unlock this nickel 
laterite resource at the lowest cost 
possible, both capital and operating, 
with a lower environmental impact 
than competing processes. 
Our strategy remains firmly focused 
on becoming a mid tier nickel producer 
through the application of our demonstrated 
heap leach technology to nickel laterite 
deposits. Our heap leach technology offers 
a competitive edge over conventional laterite 
processing technologies as it has a lower 
capital cost, low operating cost, a low 
environmental impact and is simple, 
not requiring complex process 
management systems to operate it.
We continue to aim for a production target 
of 50,000 tonnes of nickel per annum 
within five years.
successful apprO val 
Of the fOrestry permit 
for the  alda  Project 
The  alda  project in Turkey remains our 
flagship asset and represents the largest 
direct foreign investment ever made in the 
mining industry in Turkey. 
The approval of the forestry permit is 
the successful culmination of 18 months 
dedicated effort by our team in Turkey. 
The process has taken longer than we 
expected but by working closely together 
with local people, municipal authorities 
and government we have gained a high 
level of support and understanding amongst 
the community and local decision makers. 
This support bodes well for the future 
success of the operation.
strategic alliance with 
chinese p artners With China as a growing, long-term 
consumer of raw materials we have 
decided to strategically align ourselves 
more directly with this engine of growth 
through a partnership with two Chinese 
companies to advance  alda . 
China Tianchen Engineering Corporation 
(TCC) is a well established Chinese 
engineering company that was originally 
contracted to build the acid plant at  alda . 
We have now augmented this role by 
appointing them as the Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
contractor for the whole project. TCC will 
also lead the arrangement of the provision 
of credit guarantee insurance for the 
 alda  project finance facility. 
Jiangxi Rare Earth and Rare Metals 
T ungsten Group Company Limited (JXTC) 
is a growing natural resources company. 
The company is building a refinery dedicated 
to processing mixed hydroxide product 
(MHP) into finished nickel and cobalt metals 
and is keen to secure strategic, long term 
supply of MHP . We have therefore entered 
into an offtake agreement with them to 
supply some 50% of  alda 's production 
and they have agreed to take a 20% interest 
in  alda  for an investment of US$20 million.
The agreements with TCC and JXTC are 
conditional on certain matters which are 
set out in the Business Review.
Project diversification
Following our joint venture with 
Rusina in 2007, we took the opportunity to 
strengthen our presence in the Philippines 
during the year with the acquisition of 
a 19.3% strategic stake in AIM listed 
Toledo and an 18.7% direct interest in 
the Berong Nickel Corporation (Berong). 
We now have sizeable interests in the 
Philippines with access to three large, 
good grade deposits ripe for development 
over the coming years, a direct ore 
shipping operation, as soon as prices 
recover, and a pipeline of advanced 
exploration projects. The combined JORC 
resource base of these projects is over 
1.3 million tonnes of contained nickel, 
which could support mining operations 
for over 20 years. European Nickel PLC 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Importantly, metallurgical test work 
carried out to date indicates that these 
equatorial laterites are amenable to our 
heap leaching process and this has been 
supported by the positive results from the 
pre feasibility study at Acoje and the 
concept study at Berong. A definitive 
feasibility study is now underway at 
Acoje and we expect to commence 
a pre feasibility study (PFS) at 
Berong in 2009.
prudently cOnserving cash In light of the delay to the  alda  project, 
combined with the current market 
downturn which has hit commodities 
and mining companies particularly hard, 
we recognise the need to be prudent 
about corporate expenditure and 
conserve our cash. For that reason, 
we have reviewed and reassessed all 
aspects of our expenditure and instituted 
a number of cash-conserving policies, 
ranging from cutting the directors' fees 
to reducing employee numbers. 
Alongside this, we recently conducted 
a placement, raising US$6.0 million 
(gross), to bridge some forthcoming 
expenditure prior to the anticipated receipt 
of the US$20 million investment by JXTC, 
which is expected around mid 2009. 
We continue to closely monitor our rate 
of expenditure while considering various 
alternatives for advancing the projects. 
The rate at which we will progress the 
projects during the year will depend, 
in large part, on how quickly the outlook 
for the nickel and capital markets improve. 
Managing the Company through the 
maelstrom of the current financial crisis 
is a significant challenge but one which 
I and the rest of the Board believe we 
can achieve successfully.
financial results During the year the Company generated 
revenues of US$5.6 million and gross profits 
of US$828,000. Direct ore shipments from 
 alda  ceased in April 2008 and at the 
current low nickel prices it is not planned 
to resume mining until full-scale heap 
leaching operations commence.
Pre tax losses for the year were 
US$23.4 million, compared with profits 
in 2007 of US$4.2 million. This decline 
reflects the reduced profitability of direct 
ore shipping, lower interest received, 
increased employment costs and the 
absence of the US$5.2 million foreign 
exchange gain made in 2007.
the nicKel marKet The commodities markets had a volatile time 
during 2008, with nickel ranging from a high 
of US$33,250/t (US$15.05/lb) in March to a 
low of US$8,800/t (US$4.00/lb) in October, 
strengthening somewhat in early 2009. The 
credit crunch started to bite particularly hard 
in September 2008, precipitated by the 
collapse of the Lehman Brothers bank and 
news of a slowdown in China. This prompted 
a sharp and dramatic reaction amongst 
producing miners, with a significant amount 
of nickel production reported to be cut for 
2009, including the recently commissioned 
BHP Billiton Ravensthorpe mine, the 
suspension of the majority of direct ore 
shipping operations from the Philippines 
and Indonesia, and a number of other 
mine closures. It is estimated that at 
the nickel price of US$11,000 per tonne 
some 35% of world production is operating 
at below its cash costs. We do not 
believe that this is sustainable other 
than for a short period. 
Currently both supply and demand side 
projections are very uncertain and while 
the short term market consensus for 
nickel is bearish, in the long term the 
fundamentals remain positive. The 
numerous announcements of delays 
in the large nickel projects, which have 
long development times, will most likely 
lead to another recovery spike when the 
markets do turn. Emerging markets will 
need to continue their path towards 
modernisation and urbanisation and 
nickel is a key ingredient, whether it is 
in kitchen sinks, mobile phones, chemical 
plants or infrastructure projects. However, 
we believe the best form of insulation 
from market conditions is to have good 
resources and a low cost processing 
technology, which translates into 
being a low cost producer. 
Outl OOK
Our focus for 2009 is clear: finalise 
project funding for  alda  with a view 
to commencing construction by year end, 
advance the definitive feasibility study at 
Acoje and commence the pre feasibility 
study at Berong while being very 
prudent with the cash burn rate.
Lastly I would like to extend a sincere thank 
you to all our staff and consultants for their 
hard work, commitment and enthusiasm. 
And to our shareholders, a heartfelt thanks 
for your support and patience this year. 
We have made great progress in establishing 
a long-term and sustainable future for this 
Company through the development of our 
asset base and production prospects 
in Turkey and the Philippines.
d avid whitehead CHAIRMAN