  
1 
Evocutis Annual Report 2012 
Chairman's and  
Interim Chief Executive  
Officer's Report 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
The past year has been one of transition for Evocutis.  
Following the acquisition of Leeds Skin Centre for 
Applied Research Limited by Syntopix Group plc in May 
2011, Syntopix relocated to Wetherby and the 
Company was renamed Evocutis plc on 25 October 
2011. 
 
Group revenues have increased significantly during the 
year to  457,000, an increase of  230,000 from the 
previous year.  These revenues arose from collaboration 
and consultancy agreements with consumer healthcare 
companies and reflect the growing recognition by 
these companies of the value of the Group's 
technology offerings.  The increase in revenues is 
mainly as a result of the effect of inclusion of a full 
year's trading revenues from Leeds Skin Centre for 
Applied Research Limited, which was acquired in May 
2011. 
 
The operating loss (before share-based payments, 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses) 
reduced to  910,000 (2011:  1,086,000). 
 
 
Commercial progress 
 
There has been a significant change in the focus of 
Evocutis over the past year.  In the last annual report, 
several compounds were described as being under 
consideration for licensing by companies.  SYN1113, 
the most advanced of Evocutis' compounds is still in 
active discussion, but discussions concerning the other 
compounds have ceased, as we announced on 22 
March 2012.  
 
The reasons for the cessation of talks are various and 
do not relate to lack of activity of the compounds. 
Decisions on introduction of new products in the 
consumer healthcare space are often driven more by 
portfolio issues and marketing concerns.  The original 
concept on which Syntopix was based has been taken a 
long way, but thus far, we have failed to secure a 
significant licensing partner. 
  
This is perhaps not altogether as surprising as it seems 
at first; there has been no major anti-acne product, 
carrying a new active compound, launched for around 
20 years.  This area of skin biology is difficult and the 
major companies active in the area are also very 
conservative.  There is still a major and largely unmet 
need for safe, efficacious products in the area and our 
experience reflects just how difficult it is to make major 
advances. 
 
Focus of the Group's activity 
 
In April 2012, Dr Stephen Jones resigned as the 
company's Chief Executive Officer to pursue other 
career opportunities. Dr Gwyn Humphreys, previously 
Senior Non-Executive Director, took on the role of full-
time Interim Chief Executive Officer in May 2012.  Dr 
Humphreys and the Board reviewed the Group's 
activities and restated its objective to be a leading 
science-led skin research group which will deliver 
product focussed solutions to cosmetic, consumer 
health and topical pharmaceutical companies.  
 
All these industrial sectors are increasingly competing 
on the basis of the proven scientific functions of their 
products and Evocutis is well placed to forge close 
relationships with such companies.  
 
The three main areas of the Group's activity are: 
 
  Specialist skin microbiology research and 
products such as SYN1113; 
  Skin microbiology laboratory services to support 
Clinical Research Organisations; and 
  Development of LabSkin  and its use for 
contract research with sponsor companies and 
its direct sale as a research product.  
   
2   
Evocutis Annual Report 2012 
Chairman's and  
Interim Chief Executive  
Officer's Report 
continued 
 
 
 
Specialist skin microbiology 
 
Microbial interactions with the skin have been the 
cornerstone of Evocutis' technology since its 
foundation and continue to be so.  The skin is the 
human's barrier to the outside world and, as such, is a 
complex organ of the body.  The interaction of humans 
with micro-organisms is becoming recognised as 
increasingly important in the definition of both normal 
healthy and disease states.  All humans carry a natural 
population of micro-organisms on their skin and 
Evocutis has developed a rarely-found expertise in 
identifying, cultivating and storing these organisms.   
 
Evocutis offers a range of skin microbiology services to 
customers. On 14 March 2012 we announced the 
availability of a standard panel of Propionibacterium 
acnes strains which can be used to improve the 
reliability of testing for anti-acne and anti-spot 
treatments.  We are developing further panels of 
eczema-associated Staphylococci and Corynebacteria 
for additional antimicrobial screens.  
 
Skin microbiology laboratory services to support 
Clinical Research Organisations. 
 
There is a global shift in the business of clinical trials 
with many studies now being out-sourced to Eastern 
Europe, India and other territories.  Evocutis had some 
business in the past with specialist skin clinical studies 
to support mainly cosmetic studies.  We have reviewed 
this business and decided to concentrate on our key 
skills relating to skin microbiology.  Thus we are 
building relationships with Clinical Research 
Organisations (CROs) where we will supply specialist 
microbiology studies to support the patient-focused 
activities of the CROs. There are few specialist skin 
microbiology laboratories and it remains to be seen 
whether the strategy is fruitful; early indications are 
encouraging. 
 
 
   
3 
Evocutis Annual Report 2012 
Chairman's and  
Interim Chief Executive  
Officer's Report 
continued 
 
 
 
Contract services and sale of LabSkin  
 
Last year's Annual Report described the LabSkin  living 
skin equivalent tissue culture technology which was 
developed over a period of 10 years, initially in the 
University of Leeds.  Throughout the current year the 
Company offered collaboration studies utilising 
LabSkin , with the laboratory studies carried out at 
Evocutis.  We have continued to develop this 
technology and during the year announced the 
validation of the model to study antimicrobial and pre-
biotic assays (November 2011) and the evaluation of 
anti-ageing formulations (January 2012).  
 
We continue to validate other applications of LabSkin  
including its use to study transdermal delivery of 
pharmaceutical products.  These promise to be 
significant areas of development over the coming year. 
 
During the year ended 31 July 2012, Evocutis had 
several collaborations with major cosmetic and 
consumer health companies and, although revenues 
have increased, the revenue from collaborative contract 
business is always unpredictable.  Consequently, we 
have decided to broaden the commercial offering and, 
we began the sale of LabSkin  directly for research 
purposes in Autumn 2012.  
 
The product has a number of advantages over 
comparable products offered in the market and we are 
positioning LabSkin  as a research tool for molecular 
studies of skin and products for application to or 
through the skin.  Thus, studies on LabSkin  can be 
used to facilitate development studies of new topically-
applied compounds before they are used in expensive 
clinical trials.  The legislation restricting, or outlawing, 
the use of animals for topical studies of cosmetic 
products makes models such as LabSkin  even more 
pertinent. 
 
The infrastructure and organisation necessary to sell 
LabSkin  directly to customers has been put in place 
and we also believe that promotion of the product will 
help generate an increase in collaborative research 
projects.   
 
 
Many organisations which can see the value of such a 
model system do not have the in-house capability to do 
the research themselves and also wish to access the 
consultancy expertise and experience of Evocutis' 
scientists. 
 
Outlook 
Since the year end, we launched the LabSkin  product 
and have modest early sales. We continue to 
characterise the applications of the product, and have 
excellent data that confirm that LabSkin  has an 
excellent barrier function and behaves in most respects 
in a way very close to normal human skin. We will do 
all we can to drive the sales of LabSkin  but the rate 
of uptake of the product is a significant unknown. 
 
We have signed several collaboration agreements with 
major multi-nationals since the year end. We hope to 
be able to publicise these in due course.  The climate 
for external spend by all companies is however 
challenging.  In this context the timing of the uptake of 
LabSkin  as a consumable product by customers is 
crucial for the Group's future business, as it takes a 
long time to secure and negotiate each collaboration 
agreement.    
 
The timing and magnitude of sales is difficult to predict 
as these are dependent upon the uptake of LabSkin
TM
 
product sales and the number and size of consultancy 
projects secured.  There is significant uncertainty 
regarding the level of sales revenue achievable during 
the next 12 months.  Consequently, the board is 
reviewing and evaluating a number of strategic options 
with the primary objective of optimising shareholder 
value.  This review is underway and further 
announcements will be made when appropriate. 
 
 
T Bannatyne - Chairman 
 
 
 
Dr GO Humphreys - Interim Chief Executive Officer 
 
30 November 2012 