 02 Introduction   Chairman's statement
This has been another successful year for Experian,  
as we have grown and as we have laid important 
foundations for future development and expansion.
Chairman's statement
Sir John Peace
Chairman
I am pleased to report that 
this year saw further financial 
and strategic progress. Since 
demerger from GUS plc in 2006, 
Experian has delivered total 
returns more than two times the 
FTSE 100 average. We have again 
raised our full year dividend, by 
8% to 37.50 US cents per share. 
The last year for Experian was 
characterised by many firsts. 
From exciting progress in high- 
growth areas and new customer 
segments, through to finding 
new ways to inspire our people 
and pioneer products and 
services with a social purpose 
at their heart, Experian's 
appetite to innovate and create 
new opportunities for growth  
is as strong as ever.   
Introduction   Chairman's statement 03
Experian has evolved and grown to 
become synonymous with the information 
age, and the strength and depth of the 
Group's global portfolio is a cornerstone 
of its success. From this strong position, 
I am pleased to report that the year's 
highpoints were numerous: from the UK 
and Ireland's strong performance, buoyed 
by Consumer Services' record year, to 
the launch of the first fraud database 
in Australia to combat this ever-present 
threat. The year was also notable for 
the global launch of our cross-channel 
marketing platform, helping clients to 
communicate with consumers in an even 
more personalised and seamless way, 
spanning traditional and digital channels. 
Over the last decade, Experian has 
successfully diversified into a range 
of new customer segments, using 
the Group's core data and analytical 
capabilities to help clients improve their 
business decisions and their customers' 
experience. Stretching beyond Experian's 
financial services heartland, our products 
and services are now regarded as the 
industry standard across many high-
growth markets, such as US healthcare 
payments, automotive, public sector and 
telecommunications. These new customer 
segments now account for 69% of Group 
revenues, underlining the excellent 
strategic progress it has made in building 
substantial businesses in new sectors. 
Nowhere are the growth prospects more 
exciting than in US healthcare payments, 
a highly attractive marketplace Experian 
entered five years ago and one where 
our business is growing strongly. In a 
marketplace rich with opportunities, I was 
delighted by the Group's acquisition of 
Passport Health Communications in North 
America, marking another new chapter 
in Experian's history. This acquisition saw 
us cement our position as the clear leader 
in US healthcare payments and create an 
excellent platform for further growth.
Meanwhile, our passion for science and 
innovation remains stronger than ever 
and, over the course of the year, we set 
new standards in data and analytics. With 
 Big Data' part of the business lexicon, 
Experian was one of the original pioneers 
in this field. Replicating successes in North 
America, we took the decision to invest in 
the development of new data laboratories in 
the UK and Ireland and Brazil to research 
and develop ground-breaking analytical 
capabilities, so our clients and consumers 
can make even more insightful decisions 
in a world where information is growing 
exponentially. Another major milestone 
during the year saw the Group introduce 
device identification, to further enhance 
its growing global portfolio of fraud and 
identity management capabilities through 
its acquisition of The 41st Parameter.
Engaging our people
Experian's continued success owes a 
great deal to the outstanding efforts of 
a very talented global workforce. Our 
culture encourages exceptional business 
performance, through the skills and energy 
of more than 16,000 people. 
Our efforts to build this sense of pride and 
connection are embodied by our Heart of 
Experian initiative. After two years, I am 
delighted that its aim of making Experian 
one of the best places to work continues  
to go from strength to strength. 
The year also saw us recognise and 
celebrate Experian's rich history, stretching 
back to the 1800s, with the publication of 
a history book which we shared with our 
people. One of the aspects that struck me 
most was the fertile scientific and innovative 
environment that Experian has always 
cultivated. Reflecting this, we launched 
a new annual award called the Si Ramo 
Award. Doctor Simon Ramo was one of 
Experian's forefathers, a physicist, engineer, 
business leader and visionary. The prize 
will be awarded annually to teams or an 
individual whose scientific skills pioneer 
new breakthroughs in data and analytics.
Strong and effective governance
I would first like to take this opportunity to 
thank Sir Alan Rudge, our Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director, who 
will retire at the conclusion of our annual 
general meeting in July, for his significant 
contribution and wise counsel to the Group 
over many years. I would also like to thank 
Chris Callero for his long and distinguished 
contribution to the Group, ultimately as its 
Chief Operating Officer, and wish him the 
very best for his well-deserved retirement.
A strong governance structure is one of 
the principal supports for premium growth, 
successful acquisitions, the continued 
expansion of our business and other Group 
initiatives. The Board remains focused 
on ensuring its effectiveness and the 
effectiveness of governance processes 
throughout the Group. It was therefore 
pleasing that the external Board evaluation 
this year highlighted the Board's strength 
and the value it brings to the Group.
The Board-level changes that we have 
announced over recent months, and the 
considered way in which the process was 
steered by Sir Alan, will strengthen what 
is already a very capable and experienced 
Board and I provide my perspective in  
detail in this report's Governance section.
Recognising our responsibilities
With growth comes an acute sense of the 
Group's social, economic and environmental 
responsibilities. We know that our role in 
society has never been more important and 
we have the power, through our people, data 
and analytics, to help communities achieve 
their social and economic potential. This  
is precisely what we aim to do through 
the Group's social responsibility agenda.
Under our Heart of Experian banner, 
our social responsibility programme 
has gathered real momentum, and I am 
pleased to report that it was a year of  
major progress and many milestones.
We launched our first global social 
innovation programme, encouraging our 
regions to bid for funding to develop new 
products and services that have both an 
inherent social and commercial benefit. 
In this report you will read about many  
of the pioneering, sustainable products 
our seed-funding helped to kick-start.  
This programme has struck a chord  
with our people and their response has 
been overwhelming. They are keen to 
harness their unique skills and our data 
and analytics, to make a sustainable 
difference to people's lives.
In our local communities, we gave back 
more of our time than ever before to 
helping those most in need. Illustrating  
the Heart of Experian's values in action,  
our people volunteered nearly 6,000 more 
hours of their time during the working  
day last year. 
Environmentally, we continued to reduce 
our impact, with a corresponding benefit 
to our business efficiency. Initiatives to 
cut our energy use and business travel 
and to divert more waste from landfill all 
contributed to an improved environmental 
performance. We also achieved our 
highest-ever result in the UK Carbon 
Disclosure Project survey, with our  
score increasing by 17 points to 82%.
Strongly positioned for the future
Experian is a remarkable story about a 
successful business built on innovation, 
global enterprise and, above all, the 
endeavours and hard work of some 
amazing people. The Group's vision that 
 its people, data and technology become 
a necessary part of every major consumer 
economy' feels well within our grasp.
It has been my utmost privilege to serve 
as Experian's Chairman and to be part of 
this global success. I would like to thank 
everyone at Experian for their dedication 
and commitment and our shareholders for 
their strong support. 
The Group will be under the stewardship 
of an exceptional Chairman in Don Robert, 
my successor, an outstanding Chief 
Executive Officer in Brian Cassin, and a 
highly experienced Board. I know that Don 
and Brian share a passion for the power of 
information, Experian and its people, and 
will serve Experian and its shareholders 
tremendously well. 2014 marks a new 
chapter in Experian's history and its future 
is as exciting as it has ever been.
P14
P16
P60
P52