 Fayrewood plc (Fayrewood  or the Group ) achieved
good results in a highly competitive trading backdrop.
The key features for 2005 are:
  Sales increased in the Niche Division by 18.5%,
growing from  363.3 million in 2004 to  430.6 
million in 2005.
  We sold 1,169,000 shares in ComputerLinks AG, 
a significant part of our shareholding, for  11.1 
million, before expenses, to produce a gain on 
disposal of  5.2 million.
  Adjusted profits before taxation, amounted to  12.7
million. The ComputerLinks group was accounted
for as a subsidiary for the first five months of the
year and as an associate for the remainder of the
year (2004 :  16.2 million consolidating a full 12
months contribution from ComputerLinks as a 
subsidiary). On an unadjusted basis, pre-tax profits
were  18.3 million (2004 :  15.1 million).
  Adjusted earnings per share were 16.2 pence 
(2004 : 16.8 pence) (see note 9). Unadjusted earnings
per share were 26.6 pence (2004 : 15.5 pence).
  The Directors propose a final dividend of 1.1 pence
(2004 : 0.4 pence) to make a total for the year of 
1.5 pence (2004 : 0.7 pence), an increase of 114%.
  Adjusted post-tax return on capital on the basis of
shareholders' funds at the year end was 15.3%.
Our Niche Division had a record year. Sales grew
organically from  363.3 million in 2004 to  430.6 
million in 2005, an increase of 18.5% over the previous
year. We operate in a tough market. We face strong
competition and price deflation. This increase in sales
therefore disguises, as was the case last year, the true
underlying growth in volume and increased market
penetration achieved by all our businesses within the
Niche Division; and at a time when technology 
products tend to have a shorter life span. 
The ComputerLinks group
In June 2005, ComputerLinks, in which we formerly
held a 50.1% interest, acquired the Scandinavian
based SecureSoft group for a total consideration of
approximately Euro 16 million. Much of the initial 
consideration was financed by an issue of shares, 
and we took the opportunity at the same time to 
place 1,169,000 of our shares at a price of Euro 14 per
share, to produce a realised exceptional gain on 
disposal of  5.2 million. Overall, the exceptional gain
totalled  6.5 million, including a gain on deemed 
disposal recognising the impact of the capital increase
at a premium to net asset value. We retain a 27.5%
interest in the enlarged share capital of ComputerLinks.
The Scandinavian acquisition has been a success, and
progress elsewhere within the ComputerLinks group
gives us confidence for the future of our investment. 
The sale of our ComputerLinks shares has resulted in
a change in accounting treatment. As a consequence
of our disposal, ComputerLinks' results have been
consolidated as a subsidiary for five months only, 
with our remaining investment being treated as an 
associated company with effect from 1 June 2005.
Comparative results for the previous year reflect 
the consolidation of ComputerLinks as a subsidiary 
for the full 12 month period. Fayrewood retains its 
two representatives on the ComputerLinks 
Supervisory Board. 
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT FAYREWOOD PLC
Report & Financial Statements 2005
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
4
The Niche Division 
Our operational strategy within the Niche Division is 
to avoid competing with the main brands sold by the
major European distributors which stock the widest
range of computer peripheral equipment. The Niche
Division concentrates therefore on seeking and 
securing a broadly balanced range of less globally
known brands. We then seek long term relationships
with suppliers by building market share for their 
products. At the same time, we provide a round-the-
clock service to our customers. In short, distributors
typically grow the market by targeting small and
medium sized customers who would otherwise be
more difficult for manufacturers to reach. The key to
the Niche Division's success has been delivery, quality,
services, support and reliability, and it is this that has
produced the rapid increase in sales for the Division
as a whole over the last four years. That growth has
been achieved with only an additional  1.8 million of
equity raised over the same period, which has resulted
in our working capital needs increasing substantially. 
Whilst national markets differ from one country to
another, there is scope for benefit by securing closer
integration of our three Niche group companies. The
formation of a Niche Divisional Board in early 2005
has enabled us to share information better within the
group, identify opportunities and risk, encourage and
secure synergies, and improve systems with a view to
maximising profitability. We recently appointed a senior
executive based in Madrid at UMD's offices to act as
our niche divisional co-ordinator. His initial tasks are
to optimise stock level benefits within the division,
reappraise existing and potential franchises, promote
Redbell, our own label brand, roll out new franchises
across the Group where practical and, where suppliers
are shared, to seek the benefit of the Division's overall
gross buying power. We have to anticipate constant
pressure on margins and, to counter this we are, 
inter alia, developing and improving the working 
relationships that exist between the executives within
our Niche Division at all levels: purchasing, sales,
logistics, warehouse operations, management 
information systems and service to customers. 
Working Capital
Success with these operational objectives should also
result in more effective future use of working capital.
Our balance sheet as at 31 December 2004 reflected
 13.7 million of cash in ComputerLinks. With this 
cash eliminated by virtue of our shareholding in
ComputerLinks now being treated on an associated
basis, the overall net indebtedness as at 31 December
2004 amounted to  28.6 million. After taking account
of the net proceeds from the sale of shares in
ComputerLinks, the purchase of the minority interest
in Banque Magnetique and capital expenditure, 
including the construction of UMD's new office and
warehouse premises in Bilbao, overall net debt as 
at 31 December 2005 amounted to approximately
 39.7 million, a net cash outflow of  11.1 million.
The sales growth of the Niche Division during 2005,
and particularly in the seasonally strong fourth 
quarter, resulted in stocks and trade receivables 
rising significantly at the year end date. Creditor days
reduced slightly. Each one day increase in stock and
trade receivables and one day reduction in creditors
impacts the Group's cash flow by approximately 
 1.8 million. To meet our cash needs, as customers
seek to improve their own credit terms, whilst we 
seek to maximise volume rebates and early payment  5
discounts from our suppliers, we make use of trade
finance facilities. What has mattered primarily to date
is not the size of the increase in overall indebtedness
but the extent to which we have flexibility in headroom
against the aggregate amount of our bank and trade
finance facilities. As at 31 December 2005, drawn
down borrowings totalled approximately 57% only 
of total available facilities.
However a priority for 2006 is to increase liquidity by
reversing the cash absorption encountered in 2005,
primarily in Spain, and early indications show good
progress on this feature. Another priority is to 
reappraise existing franchises, especially in France
and the UK, so as to secure increased contributions
from our local businesses. During 2006 therefore
there will be a constant focused emphasis on the
effective use of working capital, as well as on the
securing of synergistic benefits from within the Group.
The confidence in our approach to these issues has
resulted in the Board recommending more than a
doubling of dividends for 2005 and a clear hope that
further strong growth in dividends will be achieved 
in 2006 as well. 
The board recommends the payment of a final 
dividend of 1.1 pence per share. This will be paid on 
22 May 2006 to those shareholders on the register 
on 24 March 2006.
The Board
The retirement of Pierce Casey, one of the founding
directors of Fayrewood, early in 2005, prompted a
number of internal structural changes. The overseeing
of operational responsibilities, formerly undertaken 
by the parent Board, has been largely devolved to the
Niche Divisional Board, chaired by Paul Griffiths, 
the Group's Chief Executive. This in turn prompted 
the retirement of Claude Dupont and Peter Hammett
as main Board directors, and their appointment to the
Niche Divisional Board. With David Gurr's return from
sabbatical leave in 2005, Dick Lynch retired as Finance
Director. I am however delighted to say that all three
individuals remain operationally involved. The Board 
of Fayrewood now concentrates on strategic and
financial planning. It has been strengthened by the
appointment of Richard Templeton, who was formerly
a director of Robert Fleming & Company and with
which he spent more than 30 years, and Sir Tim
Chessells, who has held a wide variety of very senior
positions in both the public and private sector. Their
advice was most helpful when we were approached 
by a non-industry third party late last summer with 
a highly leveraged indicative proposal which, after 
initial discussions, was not progressed.
Outlook
The Group has performed well in difficult markets. 
We will continue our search for new products and
develop the growth of our own label range. Our 
challenge in 2006 is to secure growth and synergistic
improvements while benefiting from tighter working
capital disciplines. A strengthened balance sheet will
serve us well as and when opportunities materialise.
There is ample scope for growth in sales of technology
products and we have every reason for believing that
we will play an important and profitable role in the
markets in which we operate. 
David Kleeman
Chairman - Non-Executive
14 March 2006