 FEEDBACK PLC 
CHAIRMAN S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2011 
 2 
OVERVIEW
My first annual statement as Chairman comes at the end of 
what has been another difficult year for the Group but one 
that has also seen a significant turnaround in recent months 
as the business repositions itself for growth. 
During the period under review the two operating 
companies experienced differing fortunes. Our locks and 
clocks  business, Feedback Data Limited, showed 
promising signs with increased turnover and reduced 
losses, whilst the educational business, Feedback 
Instruments Limited, continued to suffer losses. 
The Group made an encouraging start to the year but this 
was followed by particularly poor trading in the third quarter 
for both businesses. This resulted in Group revenues in the 
year ending 31 May 2011 of  6.3m, down from  7.4m in the 
previous year, and operating losses worsening from  254k 
to  831k in the same period. The loss after taxation in the 
period was  862k (2010:  441k) 
The continued poor performance of the Group over the last 
few years has meant a greater reliance on the Group s 
banking facilities and a focus on cash management. This, 
along with the global economic environment and political 
unrest in some of our international markets provides an 
uncertain backdrop as we seek to turn the business around.  
Feedback has a good name in its key markets but the 
Group has failed to capitalise on its position and there is a 
clear need for change. However, the trading performance 
over the last quarter of the year has shown the Board that 
our trading proposition is essentially sound.  
We have begun the process of returning the Group to 
profitability with a strong focus on sales and business 
development combined with a range of operational 
initiatives that will drive turnover, increase margin and cash 
flow, and better manage costs. To a certain extent these 
early changes are laying the foundation for the more 
strategic work which will follow as we clarify and improve 
the Group s focus on its target markets, make sharper 
funding and product decisions, and create a team to build 
upon and then exceed the Group s historic trading 
performance. 
Fundamental to the Group s future growth is a commitment 
to building stronger relationships with our customers and 
partners. Focusing on them, and offering products and 
services that completely fulfil their needs, is at the heart of 
our success strategy and is the principle that will deliver 
benefit to all our stakeholders. 
Investment in product development over the past two years 
in both operating companies has yet to make a significant 
impact on results but renewed focus and urgency has 
meant we are beginning to see the benefit of this 
expenditure. Group IT issues highlighted in last year s 
annual report continued to cause stock issues which in turn 
has led to poor management information and unnecessary 
costs. A second new system has been partially 
implemented with promising initial results and is now being 
phased-in across all aspects of the Group. 
PEOPLE 
On 11 February 2011 my predecessor as Executive 
Chairman, Michael Burt, left the company. Michael served 
as Chairman from January 2008 and was appointed as 
Executive Chairman later that year. He steered the Group 
through many initiatives, including renewed investment in 
product development and the rebranding of the Group.  
I was appointed to the Group as Chairman and Chief 
Executive and the Board appointed Mark Bird to join me on 
the Board as an Executive Director at the same time. I ve 
worked with Mark before and asked him onto the team 
because of his experience in building energetic sales 
groups and profitable commercial relationships. 
Immediately before he agreed to join Feedback he spent 
two years in a software start-up company and has 
previously served as either sales director or managing 
director in a number of growth companies. 
FEEDBACK INSTRUMENTS LIMITED 
Feedback Instruments Limited (Instruments ) continues to 
suffer from delays in the release of public sector funding for 
education projects around the world. Total revenue within 
Instruments fell to  4.5m from  5.8m in the previous year 
with third quarter trading in our International markets 
particularly disappointing.  
The rapid changes we ve all witnessed this year in the 
Middle East caused delays in expected business from the 
region and the turmoil in Libya forced a large educational 
product order to be shelved indefinitely. However, the short-
term problems encountered this year are not responsible for 
the long-term slide in Instruments  export sales. I am 
therefore delighted to announce the return to the Group of a 
previously successful Instruments Sales Director who 
rejoined 1 June 2011 as Head of International Sales. 
One of the principal challenges facing Instruments is in new 
product development. Supporting our broad range of legacy 
products, and the continual demand to refresh them as 
technologies change, draws resources away from designing 
products for newer and potentially higher value engineering 
disciplines such as renewable energies. Increased 
investment over the past two years has helped and we will 
continue to invest with the aim of developing and launching 
products that better meet the evolving needs of our 
university customers. 
Instruments  products are sold in North America through our 
subsidiary Feedback Inc. which traded profitably at the 
operating level in the year under review despite slightly 
reduced turnover. This market has previously been very 
important to the Group but its value has declined markedly 
in recent years as we ve relied heavily on third party multi-
vendor agents and reduced our own sales staff, eventually 
to nil. North America should be a stable and substantial 
market for our products so we have reversed the recent 
policy of reducing the sales force by appointing a full-time 
Head of Business Development, based in the US, to work 
with - and add energy and a Feedback focus to - our agent 
network. 
FEEDBACK DATA LIMITED 
Feedback Data Limited (Data ) also experienced a poor 
third quarter but increased sales focus and energy has had 
an immediate positive impact on order intake and the final 
result is encouraging. Year-on-year, Data increased 
turnover from  1.6m to  1.7m and reduced losses from 
 233k to  23k.   FEEDBACK PLC 
CHAIRMAN S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2011 
 3 
We restructured the Data business in March 2011 to align 
the sales effort and internal operations more closely with 
the needs of the market. The biggest change was in treating 
Service & Support as a separate revenue driver rather than 
as a simple add-on to an initial sale. The opportunity in this 
area derives from our large installed base and the 
increasing importance our customers place on the 
accuracy, reliability and availability of the information our 
systems produce. 
Our installed base presents the additional opportunity of 
upgrades for existing customers. Much of our product 
development investment over the past two years has gone 
into the new TS2020 line that is intended to replace earlier 
generations of our Time & Attendance equipment.  
The Nohmad range, which along with the TS2020 was 
mentioned in last year s report, is a particularly significant 
development because of its use of the GPRS mobile  phone 
network which allows us to create contracts that generate 
long-term income. Early customers identified the need for a 
suite of online tools to support the Nohmad hardware and 
recent development effort has been targeted in this area. 
We are now making good headway with existing customers 
and are starting to see interest in new markets. 
FOCUS AND URGENCY 
We are committed to restoring the business to growth and 
profitability by building on the positives of the past year. I 
am pleased with the actions of the last few months and see 
them as first steps as we build momentum and deliver the 
required changes within the Group.  
However, more focus and urgency is required if we are to 
realise the opportunity presented by our markets. 
We are moving towards developing complete products that 
completely fulfil our customers  needs. In Data, this means 
products such as, the Nohmad, where we are supplying our 
hardware products with software and services that can be 
implemented right out of the box. In Instruments, this means 
putting maximum effort into building new products that help 
universities deliver courses that take students from the 
introduction of first principle to complete understanding 
through experiment.  
We are optimising our production capacity. Our recent 
investments in business systems for both materials 
requirements planning and customer relationship 
management give us real-time transparency across the 
business and promise more responsive working practices. 
The prime objectives are to manage costs more effectively 
and to reduce the time products are in production so we can 
fulfil orders and release working capital more quickly. 
Both internally and externally we are refocusing the 
business so that our customers find the Group easier to do 
business with. We are starting to develop an attitude or 
service rather than system which affects every interaction 
we have, whether by Web, email,  phone, or face-to-face. In 
April 2011 we brought our working hours more in line with 
our customers  needs and we are currently in the middle of 
restructuring our Web presence around customer groups. 
OUTLOOK 
Achieving the turnaround of the business in the current 
economic climate will not be easy and some aspects of the 
plan are likely to take some time. However, the business 
has already delivered some important initiatives that have 
already improved the Group s trading performance.  
In my opinion, Feedback is a great business that has lost its 
way in recent years and is now starting to get back on track. 
The Group has gone through much change already and I 
have been delighted and proud of the way in which people 
at every level have responded to the new initiatives that the 
Board have put in place. I d like to thank everyone involved 
for their continued hard work and commitment which puts 
us in a significantly stronger position to deliver our goals. 
 
Nick Shepheard 
Chairman