 Chairman's Statement 
1
The most significant event of the year was the transformational 
sale of the majority of the Group's hygiene nonwovens 
business to Petropar S.A. for an enterprise value of  229 
million representing an exit multiple of 6.2x underlying 2010 
EBITDA. The sale of around 40% of the Group, including six 
manufacturing sites in five countries with around 600 
employees, was a complex and challenging undertaking, 
demanding a great deal of management resource. Since 
2006, Fiberweb has struggled with a heavy inherited debt load 
and the need for significant investment. We have improved the 
hygiene business significantly through rationalisation and 
investments, took a major strategic step in 2009 with the 
formation of the FitesaFiberweb joint venture with Petropar 
and, with this disposal, have exited a commoditised and 
capital-intensive sector at an excellent price, leaving the  
Group debt-free. 
This transaction re-creates Fiberweb as a smaller, more 
tightly-focused specialty industrial and construction materials 
business, with particular competitive strengths in products for 
filtration, industrial processing, soil and construction 
engineering, drier sheets and several medical areas. With 
sales of some  300 million, eight manufacturing sites in six 
countries, and 1,200 valued employees, Fiberweb is well-
equipped to grow profitably in selected niche areas where high 
levels of technical and service differentiation are valued by 
customers. The  24 million proceeds of the rights issue in 
March, plus the  167 million immediately provided by the 
disposal have strengthened the balance sheet significantly, 
ensuring that we are well-placed to finance future growth and 
to exploit the uncertain economic environment that currently 
faces us. A further  17 million, including interest, is expected 
from Petropar at the end of 2012, when the 6% Vendor Loan 
Note that formed part of the consideration matures.
The two acquisitions made during 2011 underline our ability  
to execute our strategy for growth. Both Boddingtons, 
acquired in January 2011, and T ubex, acquired in May 2011, 
are specialised, niche businesses with strong market 
positions. They have enhanced Fiberweb's existing T erram 
geotextile business, adding higher-margin, complementary 
products and allowing rationalisation of facilities and 
organisations. Both acquisitions are performing in-line with  
our expectations and post-acquisition rationalisation activities 
are almost complete, with two sites closing in the UK and 
T ubex production already commissioned at the Group's  
Old Hickory site in the US.
The performance of our continuing business in 2011 was 
impacted by two significant operational issues: firstly, during 
the integration of T erram and Boddingtons, output and pricing 
issues at T erram hit margins and, secondly, during the planned 
relocation of activity from K nigswinter to Berlin, it proved to 
be impossible to maintain adequate production resulting in 
delayed sales and yield reduction. While this is disappointing, 
following three years from 2008 to 2010 in which we delivered 
steady operational and margin improvement, both issues have 
largely been resolved and we expect steady improvement 
during 2012.
Financial results
The continuing Fiberweb Group, that is excluding the disposed 
hygiene business, produced sales of  297.8 million and 
underlying earnings before interest and taxes of  10.8 million. 
On an ongoing basis, with net cash and an anticipated tax 
charge of around 33%, this performance would have resulted 
in net earnings of around  6 million or roughly 3.4 pence per 
share. However, with the disposal occurring at the end of the 
year, the full interest costs of the debt that we had during the 
year are allocated to the continuing business and the actual 
tax credit applied reflects this interest cost and tax losses that 
have been capitalised during the year. As a result, the reported 
results indicate a net underlying loss after tax from continuing 
operations of  1.3 million (2010:  6.0 million profit) giving an 
adjusted loss of 0.8 pence (2010: 4.5 pence earnings) per 
share.
On a statutory basis, in 2011 the Group as a whole delivered 
profit after tax of  8.8 million (2010:  7.2 million), representing 
earnings per share of 5.3 pence (2010: 5.4 pence). The gain 
on disposal of the hygiene business was  1.5 million.
The results of the continuing business did not meet our 
medium-term goals for the continuing industrial-focused 
business of growth of around 2x GDP growth in our Western 
European and North American markets, 8-10% underlying 
PBIT
2
 return on sales and a return on capital employed of 
15%. However, there are many initiatives in the areas of cost 
reduction, operational improvement and innovation which are 
going to contribute significantly to delivering performance in 
line with our goals over the next few years.
The major financial events of 2011, notably the sale and 
operating leaseback of the large new utility plant 
commissioned at Old Hickory during 2010, the rights issue in 
March and the hygiene disposal, have resulted in a hugely-
strengthened balance sheet. This leaves us well positioned to 
finance further investments and also to consider possible 
acquisitions to accelerate the development of attractive 
elements of the business.
2011 was a watershed year for Fiberweb, with transformational change in our business 
portfolio and in the balance sheet. Operationally, while 2011 was a challenging year with a 
huge amount of corporate activity, we achieved several strategic objectives, and are now 
focused on the operational improvements necessary to deliver further value to shareholders. 
With a focused portfolio of attractive specialty industrial and construction materials 
businesses and a new, lean management structure, we have set new and attractive medium-
term financial goals and expect to make significant progress in 2012.
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
1
 Throughout the Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive's Review and Financial Review, the commentary reflects the re-presentation of the prior year to show the 
results of the disposed hygiene business as a discontinued operation.  
2
 Profit before interest and tax.
4    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011   Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    5  
Dividends
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend at the 
expected level of 2.0 pence per share. This would give a total 
payout for 2011 of 3.0 pence per share, consistent with the 
stated objective at the time of the rights issue of keeping the 
distribution by the Company stable at around  5.2 million 
per annum. On the basis of the continuing business with a 
normalised tax and interest charge based on the post-disposal 
balance sheet, the dividend would be covered 1.1 times 
notwithstanding the operational issues that hit the results in 
2011. It is expected that the dividend will grow over time as 
performance improves, consistent with the stated policy of 
a minimum 30% payout of net earnings. The final dividend, 
if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 25 May 2012 to 
shareholders on the register on 27 April 2012 and the shares will 
go ex-dividend on 25 April 2012.
The board and Management
The Board remained unchanged during the year, though on  
3 January 2012 it was announced that Dan Abrams, CFO since 
2008, will leave the Company in March 2012. Dan has been 
central to the turnaround of the Group over the past 4 years and 
we thank him for his efforts and significant contributions during 
that time.
His place will be taken by Kate Miles. Kate has been with the 
Group for five years, firstly as Group Financial Controller and 
then as Finance Director of the Consumer Fabrics Division. 
Kate is a chartered accountant and her extensive experience 
at the Group, both in Head Office finance functions and as an 
operational finance director equip her ideally for her promotion 
to Group Finance Director.
Following the hygiene disposal, significant changes have been 
made to operational management in the Group. Most notably, 
Carsten Heldmann, previously President of the Consumer 
Fabrics Division, has been named Managing Director of 
Fiberweb T echnical Fabrics, while John Warner continues as 
Managing Director of Fiberweb Geosynthetics and has also 
assumed responsibility for the US-based T ypar housewrap and 
geotextile businesses. With the reduced scale of the Group, 
several central roles have been removed to ensure that the 
Group's overhead structure is appropriate for its continuing 
business. These changes have been taking place from 
December 2011 and are likely to complete by mid-year 2012.
Prospects
Fiberweb's strategy of developing and building on profitable, 
differentiated positions in niche industrial and construction 
materials should enable Fiberweb to achieve its medium-term 
financial goals and thereby deliver attractive returns to 
shareholders. The transformation of the Group's balance sheet 
will allow these developments to be accelerated through 
increased management focus on a more attractive portfolio and 
through an improved ability to invest. Markets for specialty 
fabrics and materials in filtration, construction, medical devices 
and many other areas continue to grow, substituting for traditional 
materials and to improve energy, environmental and financial 
performance for customers. The Group's prospects of exploiting 
attractive markets are excellent and we are well equipped to see 
the benefits of recent acquisitions, rationalisation and investment 
in technology and assets in 2012 and beyond.
Malcolm Coster 
Chairman
29 February 2012
4    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Key events 
Acquisition of the Boddingtons group of companies.
January
The sale and operating leaseback of the utility plant 
commissioned at Old Hickory, US during 2010.
Successful completion of a rights issue, raising  24 million 
to enable bolt-on acquisitions.
March
Initial commissioning of a new R&D centre and pilot line at 
Old Hickory, US.
September
Acquisition of the Tubex group of companies.
May
December
Completion of a new carded fabric production line at T erno 
d'Isola, Italy.
Significant upgrade of breathable film and nonwoven line at 
Achersleben, Germany. 
The sale of the majority of the Group's hygiene nonwovens 
business. 
Commissioning of a relocated Tubex tree shelter 
production line at Old Hickory, US.
November