  
2
Fidelity Systems Plc 
Chairman's Statement 
for the year ended 28th February, 2006 
 
 
It gives me great pleasure in presenting Fidelity's final results for the financial year ended 28th February 2006.  
The group has continued to maintain good progress and has returned a satisfactory result for the current year. 
 
Results 
 
The group achieved a turnover of  933,473 for the year to 28th February 2006 (compared to  911,748 for the last 
financial year to 28th February 2005) an increase of 2.4%.   
 
Gross profit margins of 70% were achieved compared to 65% in 2005.  Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 
was  27,457 compared to the previous year ( 79,871).  The decrease in profit was caused by the considerable 
amount of time spent on the G-POS product development and subsequent launch (see later R&D paragraph) and 
the resources allocated to the acquisition of Carr Cash Registers (Northampton) Ltd.  (see later acquisition 
paragraph).   
 
Review 
 
The year has been interesting to say the least with much knowledge gained and many lessons learned.  Fidelity's 
income broadly speaking comes from three sources, the supply of back office software to our worldwide dealer 
network, the supply of hardware including Fidelity's own branded cash registers to our UK dealers and Fidelity's 
own direct sales of complete solutions including the ongoing revenue from annual software and hardware support 
contracts, mainly to Universities and Local Authorities. 
 
The back office software, Total Control, Total Stock, Instant Loyalty and Instant Drilldown (bundled together as 
Powersuite ) continues to be Fidelity's bread and butter product and despite being initially launched five years 
ago, is still selling strongly.  Due to its versatility, it allows both our dealers and ourselves to attack many different 
markets including Retail, Hospitality and Leisure.  This particularly applies to our College and University clients 
who can have all three disciplines on campus (i.e. retail shops, bars & restaurants and sports centres).  
 
With the launch of Fidelity's G-POS touch screen software and also due to a changing market it was decided to 
scale down the distribution of the Fidelity branded cash registers we previously imported from Germany.  In our 
opinion, cash register technology has just about reached its limit in favour of PC based touch screen terminals 
which offer more versatility.  This was particularly evident in a number of cashless catering systems we installed 
last year where integration with smart cards was mandatory and the client's picture needed to be shown on 
screen.  Income therefore this year from that source was considerably less than last year but is now starting to be 
replaced by sales of Fidelity's G-POS software. 
 
Fidelity has again received many more University orders over the last financial year including a complete cashless 
catering system for the Sheffield Hallam University.  This system was installed across Sheffield city centre using 
the University network and has five campus locations linked together.  Another large contract was for the 
University of Kent.  Kent has one of the busiest University shops in the UK and Fidelity is pleased to have been 
chosen to supply the hardware and software for this site.  Other contracts included an integrated smart card EPoS 
solution for Sunderland University, a complete system for the Nottingham Council for the Rufford Country Park and 
Robin Hood Visitor Centres and three new Leisure Centres at Tadcaster, Selby and South Hunsley. 
 
Research & Product Development  
 
Development started in March 2005 on Fidelity's G-POS touch screen EPoS product which has many features 
which in our opinion places it well in front of anything else on the market.  G-POS uses images of the products as 
well as descriptions for the operator.  This feature alone has been well received as it makes the product virtually 
language independent.  With the UK employing many Eastern European workers, especially in the hospitality 
industry, the training of the operator can be kept to a minimum as the screen has the brand images of the product 
instead of the description.  In addition, many of the EPoS terminals installed in the hospitality industry are in poorly 
lit bar locations with the operator having to strain to see the words on the screen or keyboard.  G-POS has again 
received favorable comment from operators due to the graphic images that can be individually re-sized to suit staff 
with poor eyesight.  The software can be configured for retail, hospitality and leisure applications and works 
seamlessly with Fidelity's Powersuite back office software.  In addition G-POS comes fully loaded with an 
integrated Chip & Pin solution which gives an added advantage for new sales.   
3
Fidelity Systems Plc 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
for the year ended 28th February, 2006 
 
Research & Product Development (continued) 
 
G-POS has many financial advantages for Fidelity.  The first being that we now have total control over all 
programming options at the point of sale.  Previously any program changes would have had to take place at the 
factory, usually in the Far East, and at great expense.  Manufacturers on a global scale are naturally reluctant to 
make changes for a particular customer's requirements.  With G-POS being an in-house product, we can quickly 
make changes to enhance or modify the product to the client's specification.  From a support point of view, 
program changes at the point of sale can now be performed remotely using the internet.  Previously we could only 
use this technology for support on the back office software, any changes to the cash register program would 
normally entail an engineers visit to physically insert a new chip or program the machine manually.  Another 
advantage is that both our dealers and ourselves are now able to approach all of our respective clients who we 
previously sold cash registers to with a view to an upgrade to this latest technology.  Post year end, Fidelity has 
received orders for new G-POS installations at the following Universities: - Huddersfield, Hull, Bath, Kent, Lincoln, 
Bristol, Teeside and Plymouth with many more pending.  Most of these are upgrades with clients already having 
the back office but several are new customers.  
 
We plan to continue the current level of investment in R&D into the new financial year to capitalise on our current 
advantage. 
 
Acquisition 
 
At the end of October last year, Fidelity acquired Carr Cash Registers (Northampton) Limited for a total 
consideration of  150,000.  The consideration was a mixture of shares and cash with an initial cash payment of 
 50,000 and the issue of 500,000 shares and a deferred consideration of  50,000 to be paid in two instalments.  
The assets include fixed assets, current assets including bank stock, debtors and goodwill.  Based in the centre of 
Northampton, ACR (Anglia Carr Registers - the trading name of Carr Cash Registers (Northampton) Ltd), has a 
well established reputation with a twenty-three year track record. 
 
The acquisition has provided Fidelity with a profitable business in a new geographical location closer to London 
together with potential economies of scale and an enlarged customer base.  ACR continues to be run by Managing 
Director Allan Baxter.  A sales and support infrastructure is already in place at ACR and it has been selling 
Fidelity's software since 1999.  
 
As mentioned in the Results paragraph above, the legal, accounting and due diligence procedures were real eye 
openers both from the time involved and the cost incurred for both sides.  Being a working Chairman and M.D. - 
who still actively sells the company's products I can honestly say that as much as three months of my time was 
probably taken up on this project last year.  
 
The income from ACR between November 2005 through to the end of the financial year at 28th February 2006 has 
been incorporated into the group accounts.  However, like most EPoS companies, December and January can 
virtually be written off.  The first quarter of the new financial year is looking encouraging though.  
 
A considerable amount of time has been spent post acquisition introducing Fidelity's established procedures and 
accounting methods to ACR.  As well as integrating service and support procedures between both companies 
ACR has been renamed ACR Fidelity Ltd and now incorporates Fidelity's logos and branding.  
 
Although not intended at the time of the acquisition, the opportunity arose after the year end for ACR to move into 
larger, more modern premises on the outskirts of Northampton.  This has given ACR more space for sales, training 
and support, more parking spaces and as a bonus a considerable reduction in the annual rent the company was 
paying at its previous premises. 
 
Outlook 
 
This is an extremely exciting and important time in Fidelity's development which we will endeavour to capitalise 
on.  However, being a Yorkshireman, I will try to achieve this by natural growth and keeping a tight hold on the 
purse strings. 
 
I should like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders and staff for their continued support during the 
last financial year. 
 
Paul Lowsley 
Chairman  