 On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board	 I	 am	 pleased	 	
to	 present	 the	 Corporate	 Governance	
Report	 for	 2011
Review	 of	 2011
With	 the	 appointment	 of	 Colin	 Day	 as	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 April	 2011,	 	
there	 has	 been	 a	 clear	 acceleration	 in	 the	 pace	 of	 change	 within	 Filtrona	 	
as	 the	 Company	 focuses	 on	 the	 delivery	 of	 the	 growth	 objectives	 outlined	
in	 the	 Vision	 2015	 strategy	 initiated	 by	 Colin.	 The	 Board	 has	 continued	 to	
devote	 time	 to	 its	 usual	 responsibilities	 such	 as	 the	 monitoring	 of	 financial	
and	 operational	 performance	 and	 approving	 the	 plan	 and	 targets	 for	 	
the	 year	 ahead.	 However,	 a	 significant	 amount	 of	 the	 Board's	 discussions	
during	 2011	 centred	 on	 the	 development	 of	 the	 Vision	 2015	 strategy,	 	
which	 was	 introduced	 to	 shareholders	 with	 the	 half	 year	 results	 in	 	
August	 2011.	 In	 addition,	 the	 Board	 reviewed	 other	 key	 initiatives,	 such	 	
as	 the	 acquisitions	 of	 Reid	 Supply	 and	 Richco,	 Inc.	 and	 the	 development	 	
of	 and	 investment	 in	 growth	 opportunities	 across	 new	 markets	 and	 	
in	 new geographies.	
Corporate	 governance	 development
Good	 governance,	 based	 on	 an	 effective	 Board,	 supports	 the	 delivery	 of	
sustainable	 long-term	 value	 for	 Filtrona	 shareholders.	 This	 includes	 proper	
internal	 controls	 and	 processes,	 a	 comprehensive	 understanding	 of	 risk	 	
and	 opportunity,	 a	 rigorous	 approach	 to	 performance	 management	 and	
strict	 commitment	 to	 transparency	 and	 integrity.
I	 am	 satisfied	 that	 the	 Board	 is	 well	 balanced	 in	 its	 mix	 of	 skills,	 experience	
and	 knowledge,	 to	 manage	 the Company	 and	 lead	 it	 through	 to	 the	
Vision 2015	 objectives.	 However,	 we	 shall	 pay	 close	 attention	 to	 the	 Lord	
Davies'	 Report	 which	 encourages	 Board	 diversity	 and	 we	 shall	 look	 	
to	 work	 towards	 those	 objectives	 as	 Board	 rotation	 occurs.
JEFF	 HARRIS	
Chairman
 	 Focused on the development  
of the Vision 2015 strategy
 	 Approved the acquisition of Reid Supply
 	 Approved the acquisition of Richco, Inc.
 	 Approved new five-year revolving  
credit banking facilities
 	 Reviewed senior management  
succession planning
 	 Approved a new Group Risk Policy
 	 Endorsed the establishment of the  
Group Management Committee
 	 Documented the responsibilities of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director
The	 Board	 has	 taken	 steps	 to	 facilitate	 the	 better	 use	 of	 its	 time,	 	
avoiding	 the	 default	 to	 lengthy	 formal	 presentations	 which	 restrict	 	
the	 opportunity	 for	 challenge	 and	 discussion,	 while	 Board	 papers	 are	 	
kept	 increasingly	 concise	 and	 clearly	 focused	 on	 key	 points.	 There	 is	 	
an	 increased	 onus	 on	 Board	 members	 to	 be	 well	 prepared	 and	 ready	 	
to	 contribute	 positively	 and	 challenge	 constructively,	 during	 the	 	
increased	 opportunities	 for	 strategic	 debate.
In	 response	 to	 the	 new	 UK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code	 during	 the	 	
year	 there	 was	 a	 formal	 documented	 clarification	 of	 the	 division	 of	
responsibilities	 for	 the	 key	 Board	 positions	 of	 Chairman,	 Chief	 Executive	 	
and	 Senior	 Independent	 Non-Executive	 Director	 and	 these	 can	 be	 	
found	 on	 the	 Company	 website	 www.filtrona.com.
Board	 evaluation
Given	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 transition	 during	 the	 first	 half	 of	 the	 year,	 it	 was	
decided	 to	 proceed	 with	 an	 internal	 Board	 review	 during	 2011	 as	 opposed	
to	 the	 external	 exercise	 originally	 intended.	 The	 review	 consisted	 of	 the	
Directors	 responding	 to	 questionnaires	 relating	 to	 the	 performance	 of	 the	
Board	 as	 a	 whole	 and	 its	 various	 Committees.	 The	 positive	 feedback	 from	
the	 questionnaires	 was	 the	 subject	 of	 detailed	 discussion	 both	 within	 the	
formality	 of	 the	 Boardroom	 and	 in	 separate	 informal	 meetings.	 An	 external	
review	 will	 be	 conducted	 during	 2012	 as	 we	 seek	 to	 further	 enhance	 the	
effectiveness	 of	 the	 Filtrona	 Board	 performance.
Talent,	 succession	 planning	 and	 diversity
While	 the	 Nomination	 Committee	 primarily	 focuses	 on	 Board	 succession,	
the	 Board's	 role	 includes	 reviewing	 the	 quality	 of	 the	 executive	 management	 	
and	 the	 processes	 for	 finding	 and	 developing	 future	 talent.	 Filtrona	 has	 	
an	 experienced	 management	 team,	 but	 securing	 sustained	 future	 growth	
of	 the	 Company	 will	 be	 dependent	 in	 part	 on	 the	 creation	 of	 a	 mobile	
international	 talent	 base.	 It	 is	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 	
to	 ensure	 the	 best	 senior	 executives	 are	 appointed	 to	 support	 him	 in	 the	
management	 of	 the	 Company,	 but	 the	 oversight	 of	 the	 management	
succession	 plans	 is	 an	 important	 part	 of	 the	 Board's	 remit.	
46 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011
Chairman's	 Letter
2011	 Board	 key	 activities legal	 and	 regulatory	 developments,	 the	 Board	 evaluation	 identified	 that	 	
the	 increasing	 levels	 of	 compliance	 risk	 impacting	 any	 international	 	
business	 such	 as	 Filtrona	 necessitate	 the	 Board	 having	 a	 clear	
understanding	 of	 the	 potential	 issues	 impacting	 the	 Company.	 	
Accordingly,	 it	 is	 intended	 that	 during	 2012	 Board	 agendas	 will	 	
include	 further	 detailed	 presentations	 from	 specialist	 external	 advisers.	
The	 work	 of	 the	 Audit	 Committee	 has	 continued	 to	 focus	 on	 the	 	
integrity	 of	 financial	 reporting	 and	 the	 oversight	 of	 risk	 management	 	
and	 internal	 controls	 across	 the	 Group.	 During	 the	 year	 the	 Company	
continued	 to	 develop	 a	 new	 Assurance	 function,	 covering	 internal	 audit,	
risk	 management	 and	 compliance	 activities,	 and	 it	 is	 anticipated	 that	 	
the	 benefits	 of	 the	 new	 structure	 will	 emerge	 strongly	 during	 2012.	
As	 the	 Board	 seeks	 to	 drive	 opportunities	 for	 the	 long-term	 growth	 	
of	 Filtrona,	 including	 the	 development	 of	 innovative	 new	 products	 for	
introduction	 into	 new	 markets	 in	 new	 geographies,	 the	 requirements	 	
for	 sound	 risk	 management,	 including	 a	 well-defined	 risk	 appetite,	 	
and	 the	 clarity	 of	 risk	 reporting	 take	 on	 ever-increasing	 importance.	 	
The	 strength	 of	 the	 Company's	 corporate	 values,	 its	 reputation	 and	 	
its	 ability	 to	 deliver	 the	 Vision	 2015	 strategy	 and	 provide	 sustainable	 	
value	 in	 the	 longer	 term,	 all	 depend	 in	 part	 on	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 	
Filtrona's	 corporate	 governance	 and	 the	 Board	 is	 committed	 to	 	
achieving	 the	 highest	 standards.	
Jeff	 Harris
Chairman
22	 February	 2012
In	 seeking	 to	 further	 develop	 the	 roles	 and	 responsibilities	 of	 senior	
executives	 within	 the	 Company,	 during	 the	 year	 the	 Board	 approved	 	
the	 Chief	 Executive's	 initiative	 to	 adopt	 a	 new	 executive	 management	
structure	 which	 took	 effect	 from	 1	 January	 2012.	 The	 Executive	 Committee	
and	 the	 Group	 Operating	 Committee	 have	 been	 superseded	 by	 the	 	
Group	 Management	 Committee	 which	 has	 agreed	 levels	 of	 authority	
delegated	 to	 it	 by	 the	 Board.	 In	 addition,	 the	 Company	 has	 developed	 	
the	 Group	 Leadership	 Team	 which	 comprises	 the	 most	 senior	 managers	
from	 across	 the	 Group	 who	 are	 collectively	 charged	 with	 driving	 the	
achievement	 of	 Vision	 2015.
An	 effective	 relationship	 between	 the	 Board	 and	 members	 of	 the	 Group	
Leadership	 Team	 is	 important	 in	 assisting	 the	 Board	 in	 managing	 risk	 	
and	 formulating	 strategy,	 and	 such	 engagement	 also	 serves	 to	 improve	
succession	 planning	 and	 the	 oversight	 of	 human	 resource	 issues.	 The	 	
Board	 evaluation	 reiterated	 the	 benefits	 of	 ensuring	 the	 visibility	 of	 the	
Board	 and	 the	 communication	 of	 its	 work	 throughout	 the	 Company	 as	 	
well	 as	 improving	 the	 development	 of	 management.	 As	 a	 result,	 further	 	
site	 visits	 by	 the	 Board	 including	 opportunities	 to	 engage	 directly	 with	 	
the	 next	 generation	 of	 internal	 talent	 are	 planned	 for	 2012	 and	 beyond.	
Supporting	 the	 motivation,	 attraction	 and	 retention	 of	 the	 key	 talent	 base,	
the	 Remuneration	 Committee	 has	 continued	 to	 balance	 the	 interests	 	
of	 shareholders	 with	 the	 adoption	 of	 appropriate	 incentives	 designed	 	
to	 drive	 the	 sustained	 creation	 of	 value.	 The	 Remuneration	 Committee	 	
has	 focused	 on	 the	 appropriate	 management	 of	 remuneration	 policy	 	
risk	 and	 the	 alignment	 of	 management	 and	 shareholder	 interests	 with	 	
the	 development	 of	 proposals	 based	 on	 an	 increased	 commitment	 to	
individual	 shareholdings	 by	 members	 of	 the	 Group	 Leadership	 Team	 	
and	 the	 adoption	 of	 increasingly	 stretching	 performance	 conditions.	
Assurance
The	 implementation	 of	 the	 Bribery	 Act	 in	 the	 UK	 provided	 further	 focus	 	
on	 all	 areas	 of	 compliance	 across	 the	 Group,	 with	 policy	 and	 guidance	
materials	 being	 supported	 by	 training	 programmes	 and	 externally	 	
facilitated	 reviews.	 Whilst	 the	 Board	 receives	 regular	 briefings	 on	 key	 	
JEFF	 HARRIS	
Chairman
Strategy - Drive further progress 
towards Vision 2015
Financial performance - Meet 2012 
financial targets and deliver sustainable 
growth in shareholder value 
Succession - Develop an 
international, mobile talent base
Risk - Operate within clearly defined 
risk parameters
Compliance - Ensure high standards 
of governance and compliance
BOARD DIRECTORS' ATTENDANCE
Members Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Jeff Harris
2
8	 (8) 3	 (3)
Colin Day
1
6	 (6)
Steve Crummett 8	 (8)
Paul Drechsler
2
8	 (8) 4	 (4) 4	 (4) 3	 (3)
Lars Emilson
2
8	 (8) 4	 (4) 4	 (4) 3	 (3)
Terry Twigger
2
8	 (8) 4	 (4) 4	 (4) 3	 (3)
Mark Harper
3
2	 (2)
	
Figures	 in	 brackets	 denote	 the	 maximum	 number	 of	 meetings	 that	 could	 have	 been	 attended
1	
Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 on	 1	 April	 2011
2	
Non-Executive	 Director
3	
Resigned	 from	 the	 Board	 on	 14	 April	 2011
Directors'	 Report
47 The	 Invisible	 Enablers		 |		 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011 Corporate	 Governance	|	Chairman's	 Letter
2012	 Board	 objectives