 6 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2011
chairman's statement
Introduction
Fortune Oil delivered another strong performance  
in 2011 and continued to make significant progress  
across all core businesses. Steps have been taken to 
further strengthen the organisation and management  
is now focussing on delivery of the Company's growth 
ambitions and operational excellence. The Company's 
strong position, significant industry experience, and clear 
strategic focus allowed us to benefit from opportunities 
that have arisen and we remain confident of continued 
success in the coming years.
Operations and Results
The Group achieved excellent results in 2011. Revenues 
including share of jointly controlled entities increased  
by 10 per cent to  624.6 million (2010:  566.9 million), 
and operating profits were  27.4 million, 11 per cent 
higher than 2010 ( 24.6 million). Profit attributable to 
shareholders increased by 39 per cent to  18.2 million 
(2010:  13.1 million).
Fortune Oil's strength lies in its relationships with its joint 
venture partners in developing growth opportunities and 
new projects. The natural gas project in Shijiazhuang 
demonstrates our capability of being able to team up  
with major Chinese companies; Petrochina and Xinao 
Gas to supply natural gas to eleven county level cities  
in Hebei province. Our partners recognise the core 
capabilities that Fortune Oil adds to these joint ventures, 
ensuring continued access to new growth opportunities. 
Another example is Bluesky where we have secured an 
opportunity to potentially double the number of airports 
under the Bluesky operation together with our partner 
China National Aviation Fuels. In addition, the strategic 
investment in China Gas Holdings Ltd (a Hong Kong 
listed company) is another exciting opportunity which  
we believe could open up further opportunities for the 
natural gas business. As a Group, we will continue  
to seek joint venture developments and strategic 
partnerships both domestically and internationally which 
will enable us to pursue attractive growth opportunities 
and to achieve the benefits of scale and materiality.
Dividend
The Board recommends the payment of a dividend  
to shareholders for 2011, of 0.18p per share (2010:  
0.13p per share). This is in line with the Board's stated  
intention to make an annual dividend payment to 
shareholders. The dividend will be payable on 27 June 
2012 to shareholders on the register as at 25 May 2012.
Market Opportunities 
Fortune Oil's impressive performance continues to be 
underpinned by China's sustained economic growth  
and the associated demand for clean fuels from both 
consumers and commercial enterprises. China's GDP 
grew at 9.2 per cent in 2011, in line with government 
targets as it tightened fiscal policy to manage property 
prices and inflation. On the back of the strong economic 
growth China's energy consumption continued to expand 
and, according to the International Energy Agency, China 
will account for more than 50 per cent of global energy 
demand growth over the next five years. 
China's 12th Five Year Plan, issued in March 2011, 
promoted the use of natural gas over higher carbon 
containing fuels, such as coal and fuel oil, and includes  
a series of targets aimed at reducing energy consumption 
per unit of GDP and slashing major pollutant emissions. 
Natural gas will play a key role in ensuring the 
achievement of these targets and the 12th Five Year  
Plan is to more than double the 2011 percentage of 
natural gas in the primary energy mix by 2015. Also, 
China will need to continue to reduce its dependence  
on coal for power and industrial use and demand even 
stricter exhaust emission standards on vehicles and 
natural gas will play a pivotal role in achieving this.
Within this context Fortune Oil is well placed to being 
able to provide the fuels that China is going to require  
in ever increasing volumes. Our focus remains on 
Fortune Oil delivered another strong 
performance in 2011 and continued 
to make significant progress across 
all core businesses. 7 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2011
chairman's statement
growing natural gas supply as this is the cleanest 
burning fossil fuel. We are leading projects to introduce 
this fuel into more cities across China and into new 
markets such as a fuel for ships, heavy duty trucks  
and long distance buses. 
China Gas Price Reform
As part of the development of the gas industry, in 
December 2011 the China National Development Reform 
Committee (NDRC ) announced a fundamental reform 
to gas pricing in China. The reforms will take the form  
of a pilot project, initially in southern China, with the 
strategic intent to raise the price of gas in coastal 
Chinese cities to a price close to oil parity and thereafter 
adjust the gas price according to future movements in 
the oil price. Assuming the pilot is a success, China will 
then roll out the pricing reform to other provinces. Under 
the new mechanism, natural gas prices will be linked 
directly to LPG and fuel oil import prices. The expectation 
is that the move towards a more market based pricing 
mechanism is likely to push up the prices of natural gas 
although the impact of these reforms on the affordability 
and demand for natural gas remains to be seen. Well 
head prices of gas are also expected to increase with 
some projections indicating the well head prices could 
double. China is also reforming the pricing of other fuels 
and we continue to monitor these developments and 
evaluate the potential impact on our markets.
Management and Governance
We continue to maintain high standards of corporate 
governance. Board succession planning is an essential 
component of effective corporate governance and 
continued success of the business as is the composition 
of our key committees. We continue to review the 
structure of the Board, the membership and impartiality  
of key committees, the Management team, and ensure 
there is the most appropriate balance of skills and 
experience to drive effective decision making. In line  
with this policy we have changed the representatives  
on the audit committee and are currently reviewing the 
composition of the remuneration committee to ensure 
there is sufficient independence. The management team 
has also been strengthened by the appointment of  
Mr Bill Mok to the position of Chief Financial Officer and 
Mr Jerry Gorman is leading our Resource development 
in Armenia.
Outlook
The urbanisation and industrialisation of China continues 
and provides a strong platform for increasing demand for 
energy and resources. Although long-term fundamentals 
for growth are strong, there remains potential for volatility 
in the short to medium term due to persistent economic 
uncertainties both from local pressures in China to 
reduce residential property price escalation and control 
inflation and from the pressure on exports due to the 
lack of demand growth from the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD ) 
countries. We constantly seek to assess the potential 
impact of these factors on the Group's plans and 
enhance our capabilities to understand and invest 
accordingly in our chosen markets.
We are very excited about the future growth prospects 
for Fortune Oil. We continue to strengthen our position  
in the Chinese natural gas industry while still seeking 
opportunities in the oil sector. We continue to make 
good progress towards the production and gas sales 
from our CBM block at Liulin with China's natural gas 
price reforms potentially increasing the CBM well-head 
gas price. We expect demand in the oil sector to remain 
strong. Air travel will continue to increase in China and 
the Bluesky business is well positioned to participate in 
this anticipated growth in demand. Consumption of oil 
derived products such as diesel and petrol is expected 
to continue to grow to support the rapid expansion of 
the automotive sector. The resources activities are still  
at an early stage but 2012 will be a year where this 
business is able to get closer to value realisation. 
I would like to thank the concerted efforts of our 
employees, who have enabled the Group to achieve 
another excellent performance, with the Group's 
businesses continuing to achieve strong profit growth. 
Given Fortune Oil's attractive position within China's 
growing energy and resource markets, we remain 
confident of delivering further success in the future.
Our commitment to our shareholders
We thank our shareholders for their continued support. 
Many have been steadfast investors in Fortune Oil  
and we are very appreciative of the loyalty. With our 
dedicated management team, compelling strategy and 
increasing momentum in our chosen sectors, we are  
well placed to thrive and grow as more customers in 
China demand cleaner fuels to power the country.
QIAN Benyuan
Chairman
25 April 2012