 4 F W Thorpe Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The financial year 2006 produced a turnover of  44.2m for the
Group, an increase of 6% compared to the previous year.
Operating profit for the same period, after accounting for
exceptional costs at Sugg Lighting, rose from  5.3m in 2005 to
 6.9m in 2006, a 29% increase. Investment income improved
by 44%, due to higher cash reserves, to bring a resultant profit
before tax of  7.4m, a 30% increase.
In general, trading throughout the year was more buoyant
than had been expected with all Group companies turning
in an improved performance over the previous year and
making further progress in their own individual market
sectors. The concern expressed in the half yearly report in
regard to the retail sector was not really realised as any
downturns in this market area were patchy and not
generally felt.
There have been a number of new product introductions
during the year from various members of the Group; very
important as such a high proportion of Group sales
emanates from relatively new designs. In lighting, nowadays
it is not always the fitting that is important, however, but
with increasing frequency the electronic control system
behind it. Through work carried out during this financial
year, before it and after it your Company will soon introduce
a lighting system which if installed anywhere in the world
can, via GPRS technology, be monitored from anywhere else
in the world. This system will provide the possibility of an
ongoing income stream from any such installation.
Investment during the year continued at a moderate level as
regards plant and machinery but some human and green 
credentials emerged with the installation of a roof air
venting system at the Thorlux works as well as the
installation of cardboard and general waste compacting
equipment. The largest investment took place on the last
day of the financial year in the outright purchase of a  1m+
factory for Philip Payne Ltd. This factory will replace their
current leased premises.
The Company, as was mentioned in the half yearly
statement, transferred the trading of its shares to the
Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock
Exchange (AIM) on 6 January 2006 and we are pleased to
report that after the initial dip the share price has continued
to make strong progress.
The results detailed at the start of this report lead your Board
to recommend a final dividend of 9p (2005: 7.5p) which,
taken with the interim dividend already paid, makes a total
dividend for the year of 12p (2005: 10p) being a 20%
increase compared to last year.
At this time it is the opinion of your Directors that cash
reserves are more than sufficient for the current needs of the
business even after taking into account possible
requirements for organic and non-organic growth. Your
Board has, therefore, decided to propose a special cash
distribution of 12p per share to be paid in conjunction with
the final dividend making a total dividend payment of 21p
per share to be paid on 16 November 2006.
Thorlux
Thorlux enjoyed another good year boosting turnover 
by 6% and operating profit by 17% compared to the
previous year.
Incremental improvements in manufacturing performance
have been made by the increased utilisation of equipment,
especially the  1m+ Salvagnini sheet metal punching and
bending line purchased some eighteen months ago. The
wider range of products developed by Thorlux in recent
years has led to a higher level of business during the
previously quieter winter months and encouraged the
Company to maintain a higher trained workforce during
these months. Maintenance of this higher level of staff has
greatly assisted in the preparation for the normally expected
bulge  in output requirement during the summer months
caused by the Thorlux customer profile.
The concentration of effort on the export side also seems to
be paying dividends with Thorlux, for the first time in some
years, increasing the amount of export business as a
percentage of total turnover from 6% in 2005 to 7% in 2006.
In the year to 30 June 2006, total export output was up 17%,
European export output was up 11% and our two people in
Munich managed an output increase of 107%. In regard to
the German Operation, growth rather than profit is the
motive currently and Thorlux is actively trying to bolster the
team by one full-time Sales Representative. The return to a
Thorlux employed Sales Engineer in the Republic of Ireland
is bolstering sales and the Company is looking to employ its
own representative in one further mainland European
Chairman's Statement
In general, trading throughout the year was more buoyant
than had been expected with all Group companies turning in
an improved performance over the previous year and making
further progress in their own individual market sectors.  F W Thorpe Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
market. Far East markets continued to become more difficult
and although Middle East sales increased, this is probably as
much to do with their being awash with petro-money as to
the market becoming easier for us.
Mackwell
Mackwell, the Group's manufacturer of emergency lighting
control gear and systems, also had another successful year
increasing turnover by 7% and profit by 13% compared to
the previous financial year. It was mentioned last year that
Mackwell's product direction was refocused and
concentration during this period has remained on suitably
profitable medium volume production traditional products
whilst at the same time the Company has been keeping
abreast of possible changes in the technology of emergency
lighting in general. A growing percentage of Mackwell's
turnover is now products for LED (rather than fluorescent)
emergency lighting systems. During this financial year the
Company also introduced new manufacturing equipment,
some of which has assisted Mackwell in its meeting the
European ROSH Directive requirements to become a lead
free  product supplier.
Compact Lighting 
Compact Lighting, being a manufacturer of retail space
lighting, started the year with trepidation as to the
impending fate of the retail sector. The downturn in this area
has been patchy and although some of Compact's
customers curtailed their shop refurbishment programmes
some did not and further new customers were found
amongst those still investing. Compact Lighting finished the
year with the creditable performance of an operating profit
increase of 9% on reduced turnover.
Philip Payne
Philip Payne Ltd, the manufacturer of quality specialist exit
signage and specialist hospital signage, returned to a year of
buoyant trading unlike the somewhat patchy previous year.
Results recovered as if last year had not happened to give a
record year of turnover and operating profit up by 27% and
68% respectively. The company currently occupies leased
premises and so, to take advantage of a break in the lease,
the Group has been looking for suitable premises to
purchase in its stead. Payne's has a particularly green 
workforce with numbers walking to work and it has been
fortuitous that a suitable building became available across
the road from the current premises. The building, as was
mentioned earlier, was purchased on the last day of the
financial year and is currently being fitted out to suit Payne's
requirements. The company will move to the new premises
in October 2006.
Sugg Lighting
Heritage lighting manufacturer and refurbisher Sugg Lighting
improved turnover in the year to 30 June 2006 by 21% and
this performance, coupled with a further reduction in the
workforce and improved productive capacity, allowed the
company to run at only a small operating loss during the
period. Work continues improving, still further, the
performance at Sugg Lighting and meanwhile the Group's
considerations as to a more stable platform for Sugg's future
are moving to a conclusion.
People
Again, we owe a lot to our people who have been loyal and
hard-working throughout the year. We have quite a number
of nationalities on our workforce currently which made for
quite an interesting time during the 2006 World Cup football
tournament!
May I take this opportunity to thank all F W Thorpe Plc
employees of all nationalities for their help and further
diligence throughout the year.
The Future
Our markets appear to be fairly stable at the present time
and although it seems unlikely that higher Government
spending will be forthcoming to fuel further growth, the
impending general reduction in fuel prices should assist. In
the main growth must, therefore, come from our own efforts
to produce more products that our customers want to buy
and for us to be there to service those customers. Each
company in the Group is pursuing ideas to carefully expand
its product offering whilst particular companies in the
business continue to pursue growth by serving new markets
in a more direct manner. We will continue to try and offer
more customers better, and more.
Andrew Thorpe
Chairman
10 October 2006