 04  FW Thorpe Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Revenue for the financial year ending 30 June 2008 was a
milestone at  51.8m, this being 13% above that for the year
to 30 June 2007. The operating profit was also a milestone 
at  10.5m, 26% above last year's equivalent figure of  8.4m. 
A 51% higher finance income achieved through higher cash
reserves including short term deposits, and increased
interest rates has given a resulting profit before taxation 
of  11.7m, up 28% from last year. 
Business throughout the year has been reasonably buoyant
for all group companies save for Compact Lighting Ltd which,
as mentioned at the half year, has been suffering from the
reduced activity of some of its retail sales customers. The
group's performance has, however, been pleasing and despite
the dark cloud of sub prime mortgages having been passing
over head, your group seems to have drawn sun and energy
from that famous crack in the clouds .
Energy, or at least the saving of it, is a very important ideal
embedded in the company product portfolio and this augers
well for us in these times of generally increasing energy
costs. Even Sugg Lighting, small as it is, has developed a new
battery powered ignition system to save gas by replacing
the unreliable clockwork switching systems on Royal Palace
gas lanterns. 
Export continues to improve with the two main group
exporters, Thorlux, and Mackwell Electronics, having
increased export turnover by 15% and 29% respectively in
the year. 
Investment during the year has been modest with no major
spends, however two significant investments are imminent.
The first of these two investments will be a small group
owned facility for Sugg Lighting Ltd which is currently in
rented premises with a lease due to expire next year. The
second investment currently in process is the purchase of
some 200 acres of land suitable for tree planting. This second
investment, your Directors believe will offer a significant
carbon offset green  marketing opportunity for the group,
details of which will become apparent at a later date.
Succession planning has also been a major point of
discussion during the year and it was with great pleasure
that in May 2008 we welcomed Mr Tony Cooper, Mr Nick
Brangwin, and Mr David Taylor to the Board. Tony is
Manufacturing Director of Thorlux Lighting, Nick is Sales
Director of Mackwell Electronics, and David is Managing
Director of Philip Payne Ltd. We wish them every success in
their expanded new roles.
Group results detailed at the beginning of the report allows
your Board to recommend a dividend of 12.1p per share
(2007: 10.0p) which together with the interim dividend
already paid makes a total dividend per share of 16.0p (2007:
13.25p)   for interim and final dividend. This is an increase
of 21% on the total dividend for the year to 30 June 2007. 
Thorlux Lighting
Thorlux Lighting, the group's largest company producing
professional lighting solutions to the commercial and
industrial lighting markets produced a further record
turnover and operating profit up 16% and 30% respectively.
Home sales and export sales advanced by 16% and 15%
respectively. Home sales have no doubt benefited from the
introduction at the end of the last financial year of the
Scanlight AT innovative LED interrogate from anywhere 
emergency lighting system, and from a new European  style
range of suspended, individual or continuously mounted
fluorescent luminaires. Both new ranges have progressed
well during their first year making significant contributions.
On the export side the German office in Munich has
maintained its three personnel and one can say the road to
recognition of Thorlux Lighting in Germany still continues.
Thorlux did not meet its own KPI here but nevertheless sales
increased by 13% over last year. Republic of Ireland sales
increased by 33%, enough to persuade the company to
double its staff on the territory by the employment of a
further Sales Engineer. The advance in  another European
country' as mentioned in last years report has still not
happened although further discussions have recently been
taking place to try and further this aim.
The year has, sadly, seen the retirement of Sales Director Mr
Norman Hobbs. Norman who was originally apprenticed to
the old TI Group, spent time as a Sales Engineer with Simplex
Lighting Ltd before joining Thorlux in 1976. Serving in a
number of roles at Thorlux, Norman became Sales Director in
1991. The Board would, therefore, like to take this opportunity
to express its thanks and gratitude to Norman for his sterling
performance and friendship, and to wish him a very happy
retirement. It is with great pleasure that we now, also, would
like to welcome Mr Ged Ryan to the company as Thorlux Sales
Director and it is felt sure that Ged, who has numbers of years
of lighting sales management experience behind him, will
successfully take up the cudgels. 
Mackwell
Group emergency lighting control gear and systems
manufacturer, Mackwell Electronics Ltd also turned in record
performances for the year in question raising turnover by
19% and profit by 30% in comparison with the last financial
year. Mackwell is now stretching its current premises at the
seams, however some artful re-working of space and
Chairman's statement FW Thorpe Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05
equipment use have allowed this further growth.
Consideration needs to be given in the coming year to
address the company's requirements to enable forward
growth. The market for its traditional emergency lighting
control gear is holding up well especially on the export front
although the swing to LED emergency systems is gaining
pace on the home market. Mackwell has placed itself well to
cater for this change with LED based products and systems
being some 13.4% of turnover this year compared to 5.6% of
turnover in the last corresponding period. Mackwell has also
proved itself to be the greenest  company in the group by
being the first group member to gain ISO 14001
International Standards Organisation accreditation for
Environmental Management Systems .
Compact Lighting
Compact, regrettably, did not make record sales or profits in
this financial year and being in the business of lighting retail
space it has suffered from a pull-back in refurbishment
activity by a number of its customers. Whilst retail is a fair
sized market, it is one in which many players can suffer ills at
the same time and so it has been decided that action should
be taken to broaden Compact's market coverage to include
display  by introducing more highly tooled products to
their range. This would reflect more the range of high design
content and tooled products elsewhere in the group.
It was reported last year of the imminent departure of
Compact Lighting's Managing Director, David Lippold, in
October 2007 and we expressed our thanks for his work at
Compact. We must now thank Mr Barrie Compton for
stepping into David's shoes at short notice whilst we
appraise the position. Barrie, who is near retirement age, has
prior Directorial experience and has been proving himself as
an exceptionally capable safe pair of hands.
Philip Payne
Philip Payne Ltd, being the group's specialist exit sign maker,
has enjoyed a more stable year than last being now well
embedded into its new premises. Both turnover and
operating profit were record figures up 15% and 10%,
respectively, creditable results based mainly on traditional
business, and despite the increased overheads of its new
premises and the increase in salesmen from one to two last
year. A new range of highly tooled exit signs looks to be in
line for branding by a larger peer of Payne's outside the
group, as well as it being offered in the company's own
product range. This business would be incremental to
Payne's normal business but of course higher volumes to
one customer means lower margins. To give a flavour of
some of the company's specialist work, Payne's have, this
year, supplied exit equipment to the Royal Albert Hall, BMA
House (Charles Dickens's home), The British Museum,
Gleneagles Hotel, and Wimbledon. 
Sugg Lighting
Sugg Lighting Ltd, our now not so troubled maker of
heritage lighting, has been operating profitably throughout
the year on a management accounts basis, based on the
inclusion of only the amount of space actually used by the
company within their currently over-sized premises. The
lease has previously been impaired, and therefore no cost
will impact the income statement up until the expiry of the
lease in Spring 2009. Efforts are currently afoot to relocate
Sugg into a group owned premises of suitable size. This year
has seen more success for Sugg than just returning to
profitability in the gaining of a royal warrant By
Appointment to Her Majesty the Queen, Heritage Lighting
Manufacturer and Refurbishment Specialist.  Examples of
Sugg expertise can be seen in the lanterns at the entrances
to the newly refurbished St Pancras Station.
People
No redundancies this year, I am pleased to say and our work
force has been kept fully busy. Time passes quickly when
one is busy and it hardly seems a moment since I thanked
our work force last year. It is that time again, however, so
may I personally, thank all those in FW Thorpe Plc for their
continued efforts and diligence throughout this successful
financial year. Let us hope that in these uncertain times our
expertise can keep us all busy during the next one.
Future
Our market is a mixed market in which we target the private
sector, the public sector, home and export. There are pluses
and minuses against each sector currently and so it is
difficult to predict the coming year. Large torpedoes such as
Northern Rock, Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, Fanny Mae,
and Freddie Mac seem to keep hitting the world economic
scene, however due to our market spread it is unlikely that
all our target market sectors would suffer at the same time.
To gain continued and increasing business from these target
market sectors we must continue to try and sell our wares
better in a wider market profile and continue to bring in new
good lighting products to access areas of the market not yet
fully addressed by our current portfolio of products.
A B Thorpe
Chairman 23 September 2008