 All Leisure group plc 
 
Chairman's Statement  
 
 2 
Profitability for all operators has been compromised not only by the recession, but also by factors such as adverse 
movements in currency and fuel costs, and All Leisure group has not been immune from these.  Whilst significant, 
these factors were not entirely unexpected, and the steps taken by the board to mitigate the worst of their effects 
mean that I am pleased to report a Group profit before tax and certain derivative adjustments modestly ahead of city 
expectations at  4.5m (as shown in the Finance Director's Report) (2007/08:  6.3m).  This result was also helped by 
various non-recurring items which made a net profit contribution.  Further details are contained in the Finance 
Director's report.   
These profits together with a proposed final dividend payment of 1.22p per share (full year 1.82p) should be 
encouraging news for our shareholders.  The board is particularly pleased to have maintained dividend payments 
throughout its life as a listed company.  As promised, the Group was able to take advantage of the prevailing market 
conditions and consolidate its position in the destination-led cruise segment following the acquisition of the 
Hebridean Princess in April 2009. This acquisition fits our strategy extremely well given the nature of the product 
and the complementary customer profile and underpins our position as the largest UK-owned cruise operator. Since 
the year end the Group has expanded further with the announcement on 16 November 2009 of the acquisition of the 
mv Alexander von Humboldt. Following technical work this winter, the ship will be chartered to Phoenix Reisen 
GmbH between May and October 2010. These acquisitions meet the key medium term board objective, namely to 
invest the  8.9 million (net) raised at the time of our Initial Public Offering in October 2007.  Despite investing in 
these two new vessels, the Group's balance sheet remains net cash-positive and the final instalment on our only debt 
outstanding (related to the purchase of the mv Discovery in May 2005) is scheduled to be repaid in May 2010. 
 
Results 
Turnover during the year increased by 9% to  73.6m (2008:  67.5m). This was partially due to a full year of cruising 
from Swan Hellenic and partially due to the contribution of mv Hebridean Princess and an uninterrupted programme 
for mv Discovery. However, profit for the financial year decreased by 69% to  2.7m (2008:   8.8m). Pre-tax profits 
were  2.6m (2008:  9.1m) and pre-tax profits before certain derivative adjustments (those set out in note 7) fell by 
28% to  4.5m (2008:  6.3m). A proposed final dividend of 1.22p per share will, if approved, result in a total 
payment for the year of 1.82p per share (2008: 3.66p). Including advanced customer receipts of  13.7m (2008: 
 13.5m), the Group ended the financial year with bank deposits and cash balances of  31.2m (including restricted 
cash of  2.9m) (2008:  33.0m; restricted cash  3.1m).   
 
Strategy 
The Group's strategy remains unchanged, namely to achieve growth by exploiting the growing demand for 
destination-led  cruise holidays and by providing an increasing choice of other niche holiday products into the over-
55 English speaking market. 
 
The Directors believe that the Group's chosen niche markets have a number of fundamental attractions: 
 
  Significant barriers to entry. The Directors believe that a growing focus by regulators on safety and 
consumer protection is raising the barriers to entry for those wishing to enter the Group's markets. This is 
benefiting established brands with strong balance sheets. 
  High levels of repeat business. The Group has again enjoyed significant repeat passenger business during 
the year, underlining the benefits of customer loyalty.  All Leisure group plc 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
 3 
  Strong revenue visibility. Despite a trend towards later booking in recent months, the Group enjoys 
significant forward visibility on its cruise bookings compared with other package holiday products. Cruises 
go on sale more than twelve months prior to departure and are generally 50% sold six months before sailing.    
  An attractive tax regime. From February 2007 mv Discovery qualified for the tonnage tax regime, 
followed by mv Minerva in May 2008 and Hebridean Princess on acquisition in April 2009.  As a result, the 
Directors expect the Group tax rate to be lower than the current level of UK corporation tax for the 
foreseeable future.  
 
In addition, the Group has other considerable strengths: 
 
  Well established brands. Swan Hellenic was established in 1954, Hebridean Island Cruises in 1988, 
Voyages of Discovery was established in 1994 and Discover Egypt in 1999.  By virtue of their history, we 
believe that all four brands represent trusted names, generating significant customer loyalty in their niche 
markets, both in the UK and overseas. 
  Operational excellence. On-board surveys of ocean cruise passenger attitudes reveal that nine out of ten of 
last year's passengers surveyed intend to cruise with the Group in the future. 
  A committed and experienced management team. The board and two other senior executives together 
own 76.7 per cent of the shares in issue.  The management team brings a wide range of complementary 
experience from both inside and outside the travel industry. 
  Strong asset backing. The Group own the ships mv Discovery, mv Hebridean Princess and mv Alexander 
von Humboldt.  The outstanding debt associated with the purchase of mv Discovery is scheduled to be 
repaid by May 2010, leaving the Group debt free. 
  Significant balance sheet liquidity. Including advanced customer receipts the Group ended the financial 
year with unrestricted cash (including advanced customer receipts) of  28.3m (2009:  29.9m). Despite 
subsequent asset purchases (mv Alexander von Humboldt) and significant scheduled dry-dock work for 
both the mv Discovery and mv Hebridean Princess, the board still expects the Group to finish the current 
financial year ending 31 October 2010 in a net cash position. 
 
Hedging 
The majority of the Group's currency requirements for the financial year 2008/09 were covered by currency hedges 
and in addition the Group has hedges in place to cover the majority of its requirements for the year ahead. Given that 
the Group does not employ hedge accounting, the mark-to-market profits/losses for any hedges still outstanding at 31 
October 2009 appear in the consolidated income statement for the year. In May and September 2008 the Group 
entered into fuel swaps expected to correlate with future movements in marine fuel prices. The value of the swaps 
entered into represented approximately 50% of the Group's anticipated calendar 2009 fuel requirements. The Group 
has subsequently taken out fuel swaps to cover 50% of anticipated exposure up to December 2010. 
 
Dividend policy 
 
2008/09 final dividend 
Although the board anticipated not paying a FY08/09 interim dividend, more stable market conditions in the first half 
of the year allowed the payment of an interim dividend of 0.6p per share (FY 07/08: 2.44p). The board believes that 
until a marked recovery is seen in the market, it is prudent to base future dividend payments off the level of the 
current year's dividend. It is therefore proposing that the FY 08/09 interim dividend represents approximately one-
third of the full year payout. For this reason the board feels that it is appropriate to pay a 1.22p final dividend per 
share (07/08: 1.22p) resulting in a full year FY 08/09 dividend of 1.82p per share (FY07/08: 3.66p).  
 
Current year dividends 
With market conditions now stable (albeit at depressed levels) the Board does not anticipate any further disruption to 
its progressive dividend policy stated at the time of the Group's admission to AIM in October 2007. The Directors 
reiterate that they intend to continue a policy which, subject to satisfactory trading and having regard to prevailing 
circumstances and opportunities, will provide for the distribution of a proportion of the consolidated profit after tax 
of the Group, whilst continuing to retain the balance of the Group's earnings to facilitate the Board's strategy for the 
continued growth of the Group.   All Leisure group plc 
 
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
 
 4 
 
Outlook 
Trading is still challenging across our industry and whilst UK consumer confidence is slowly recovering, the 
continued weakness of Sterling puts pressures on costs and therefore margins that are difficult to mitigate. Our 
previously announced time charter arrangements on Minerva (Spring 2010) and Alexander von Humbolt (Summer 
2010) have allowed us to increase our non-sterling revenues for the current financial year and we continue to pursue 
active hedging strategies for both our fuel and currency costs.  The March to November trading profile of Hebridean 
Princess and the initial investment required on the Alexander von Humboldt increases the likelihood that the Group 
will report winter losses (compensated by greater summer profits) in future financial years. The board continues to 
look for further investment opportunities that current market conditions might reveal, however it remains confident 
that the recent investments will underpin the Group in the short term. 
 
 
 
 
R J Allard 
Chairman 