 THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 3
Peter Lewis
Chairman
Chairman's Report
The Board's report on their
stewardship to the owners of
the business for the year
ended 31 January 2003.
*Source: ELSPA/ChartTrack.
Dear Owner
It was another good year.
Results
Operating profit, before goodwill amortisation
and last year's provision for re-branding,
increased to a record  32.4m ( 31.2m).
Pre-tax profits before goodwill amortisation
were up 26% to  33.1m ( 26.3m).
Turnover grew by 23% to  560m ( 454m)
with like for like sales up 12%. Gross profit
margin reduced to 28.1% (29.9%) in line
with expectations for the launch year of Xbox
and GameCube. Basic earnings per share
were 4.4p (3.33p) with adjusted EPS, before
goodwill amortisation, of 5.98p (4.91p).
Your Board is proposing an increase in the
final dividend of 37.5% to 0.55p per share
making a total for the year of 1p (0.8p). 
This increase is a result of the Group's
strong cash position and your Board's
confidence in the underlying business.
A brief review of the year
Our Market
A year ago the UK market for computer
software and video games was expected to
grow in 2002 by as much as 25%. As clear
market leader, our profits were expected to
grow proportionately. In the event, the
market did increase, but by 8%*.  As soon
as it was clear to your Board that market
growth was going to be less than previous
forecasts, with the inevitable impact on your
Group's profits increase, we were quick to
ensure that our investors were informed.
The reasons for the shortfall against
expectations were a combination of the
sharp drop-off in customer traffic
experienced by most high street retailers
and industry specific issues, including lower
than anticipated sales of both Nintendo's
GameCube and to a lesser extent
Microsoft's Xbox in their launch year. Total
console unit sales in 2002 increased
significantly over the previous year but by
value rose by only 1%*. By contrast,
software sales were up 11%* by value.
In response to these trading conditions,
industry wide promotional activity was
intense and GAME responded very
effectively, driving up seasonal like 
for like sales from a mid-December
negative of 5% to a positive 4% 
for the whole Christmas Season. 
Moreover, this strategy maintained our
dominant market share, successfully
resisting the competitive attempts of
mass merchandisers and others.
In 2002, the UK games market continued
to be the largest in Europe with an
estimated value of  2.1bn*. This was
twice the size of video rental and almost
1
1
/2 times bigger than cinema box office
spending. In The Way Ahead  section,
later in this report, we address our growth
prospects for 2003 and the adaption of
our business model deriving from our
experiences of Christmas 2002.
Our Business
During the year, there were 12 net
store openings in the UK and 48 in our
European markets of France, Spain
and Sweden. This increased our
European store base by 73% generating
total sales growth of 100%. It also added
inevitable start-up costs with a consequent
short-term drag effect on Group profits.
Stores trading at 31 January 2003 2002
Company owned & 
concessions
UK 335 323
Europe 114 66
Franchises
Europe 58 58
Total Outlets 507 447
This was a year of substantial investment in
our fledgling European business not only in
stores but in management, systems and IT.
Europe now represents 12% of Group
Sales, and made a small loss in the year. 
We are at an early stage in the
development of our business in these
markets and while much of the initial
groundwork needed to create a solid
foundation for the future expansion has
been done, there is still some way to go.   THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 5
GAME continues to be strongly
cash generative. In the year net
cash inflow from operating
activities increased by 26% to
 37.4m ( 29.7m).  
Chairman's Report...continued
Each of our three businesses is at a
different stage of development. In 2003
our plans for France are a continuation
of the remodelling of the acquired
ScoreGames chain as well as the
enhancement of IT Systems and the
strengthening of the local management
team. In Sweden, where much of the key
foundation stage is behind us, our efforts
will be concentrated on accelerating store
expansion, whilst in Spain we seek to
improve overall performance with a more
modest store expansion programme.
In the UK, the re-branding from Electronics
Boutique to GAME was completed on
schedule and within budget. In 2003 we
expect to accelerate our store opening
programme.
In October 2002, we sought in the High
Court to clarify our rights to terminate the
long standing services agreement with
Electronics Boutique Inc (EBI). On appeal, 
the court upheld the agreement which
expires on 31 January 2006. We continue
to pay EBI 1% of our UK turnover.
Treasury
GAME continues to be strongly cash
generative. In the year net cash inflow
from operating activities increased by 26%
to  37.4m ( 29.7m). Despite a substantial
increase in capital expenditure to  22.3m
( 7.0m) driven largely by the re-branding
programme and our store investment in
Europe and the UK, the Group ended the 
year with net cash of  37.4m ( 35.9m). 
In the last two years GAME has generated 
net cash inflow from operating activities 
of  67.1m.
As a result of our strong cash generation 
and the weakness in our share price, on 
28 January 2003 the Board commenced
the buy back of our own shares for
cancellation, in order to enhance
shareholder value. Including 1,000,000
shares purchased prior to the year end, a
total of 11,450,000 shares have now been
acquired at an average price of 36.98p.
The Board has current powers to continue
this programme prior to the annual renewal
of its authority at the AGM on 3 July, when
the Group will seek shareholders approval
to increase this figure from 5% to 10% in
line with current practice.
During the year, the Board authorised the
purchase of land at Basingstoke for the
creation of a new Distribution and Head
Office facility, which we expect to be
completed in early 2004. The existing
leasehold premises at Bracknell are
inadequate for the future requirements of
our fast growing business. This
development will be largely financed 
by 10 year loans which have been
negotiated with a major UK bank 
on favourable terms.
Provision of  14.7m for potential deferred
consideration payments in respect of the
acquisitions in 2001 in France and Spain
will no longer be required and goodwill in
the balance sheet has accordingly been
reduced by this amount.
Board Changes
On 28 February 2003 the Board
announced that its long serving Chief
Executive, John Steinbrecher, had decided
to return to his native United States. He
relinquishes his role on 31 January 2004
after over 8 very successful years.
Martin Long, 36, who has been a director
and has worked side by side with John
since 1995 and as Deputy Chief Executive
and Chief Financial Officer for over 3 years,
has been named Chief Executive Designate
and will succeed John on his return to the
USA. Martin will continue to act as Chief
Financial Officer in the meantime and the
Board will appoint a Finance Director in
due course. Lisa Morgan, 32, has been
promoted from Commercial Director to
Deputy Chief Executive Designate.
On 25 January Sir Richard Greenbury, 66,
retired from the Board, as a Non-executive
Director so as to pursue his many other
retirement interests. He made an
invaluable contribution to our affairs during
his term. He is succeeded by Christopher
Bell, 45, who is Chief Executive of
Ladbrokes Worldwide and a main board
director of Hilton Group Plc.
Following Sir Richard's retirement,
William Slee, 62, who has been a member
of the Board since September 2001, was
appointed Senior Independent Director.
Our People
It would be remiss of me not to note that
our successful response to the challenges
of 2002 trading conditions was made
possible only by the commitment and
energy of our outstanding workforce. 
We thank them all.
*Source: ELSPA/ChartTrack.  THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 7
In the UK, 2002 video game
console unit sales were up 44%
to 3.3 million* 
Chairman's Report...continued
In addition to the Main Board changes there
have been important internal and external
appointments to the key trading subsidiaries,
in particular strengthening Operations,
Property Management, Human Resources
and our commercial team, to meet the
needs of the next phase of our growth.
The Way Ahead
The challenge of Christmas 2002
demanded a swift response by your
management which was both forthcoming
and effective. Very few UK retailers were
able to match GAME's success in reporting
2002 as a record year.
Since the year end, management has built
on these experiences and adapted our
business model to suit these new
conditions. In 2003 and beyond, much
greater emphasis is being given to our
competitive advantages which taken
together represent a unique selling
proposition. These include the loyalty data
base (now 3.9 million customers), our
preowned programme, multi-buy product
offers, unrivalled range of products, our
all-round superior instore service and local
price competitiveness.
Your Board believes that by harnessing
these competitive advantages together
with our philosophy of empowering store
management to respond to local trading
conditions, GAME will benefit from further
advances in the games market predicted
for this year. Industry reports indicate the
world wide games market may grow to
$18.5bn this year ($16.9bn in 2002)*.
Since 1995, the global leisure software
market has almost tripled in value. There
are few, if any, other markets that can
show comparable growth.
In the UK, 2002 video game console unit
sales were up 44% to 3.3 million*. This
increase in the installed base will stimulate
demand for software sales this year and
beyond. The UK is the third largest games
market in the world. Of great significance
to the future of GAME is that in the largest
and more mature market of the USA,
specialist retailers, like GAME, continue to
grow their store base and market share.
Current and Future Trading
In 2003 we aim to exploit our commercial
advantages in the UK, whilst in Europe the
emphasis is on honing our management
systems and capabilities. We expect the
video games market to grow and your
management's task is to ensure that GAME
takes its full share of the opportunities.
In the first half of last year like for like sales
increased by 29% due to the unprecedented
event of two major systems launches in
quick succession. Thus, in value terms, this
year's comparisons for the first half will be
misleading, nevertheless, in the 12 weeks
to 26 April which incorporated the launch
of Xbox in 2002, this year's overall sales
are up by 10% with same store sales up
1%. Your Board is encouraged by this
performance which is ahead of budget,
with margins in line with internal forecasts.
In addition, GAME has further increased its
UK market share.
Your Board is anticipating another
successful year.
Peter Lewis
Chairman
*Source: ELSPA/ChartTrack. 