 Niche markets
Last year I wrote about how our business works.  That piece is reprinted at appendix 1 to this annual report.
This  niche markets' section is a pr cis of it.
In any business there is a model (how the business works) and a story (why it works that way).  Games
Workshop is a business that designs, manufactures, distributes and sells everything an enthusiast needs to
play tabletop wargames in the fantasy world of Warhammer.  
In short the model is that of a niche business and the story is that it appeals to a relatively small number of
people devoted to the Games Workshop Hobby.
Niche businesses have natural strengths . . . :
  They are naturally protected from macro economic factors 
  Their customers are dedicated and loyal
  They are relatively price insensitive
. . . and consequences:
  They demand high quality products and services
  They need focus and specialisation for success 
As a Group we understand niche markets, providing excellent products and service to devoted gamers.  That
is what we are good at, and that will continue to be our obsession.  
Marketing and advertising
The business model all our businesses follow is that of the niche marketer. Niches have some wonderful 
natural advantages.  They are largely protected from macro economic factors, their customers are dedicated
and loyal, and price isn't the number one consideration.  To retain those advantages it is vital to have high 
quality products and services, and vital that the business should keep its focus and specialisation. The 
tabletop fantasy wargames niche that we have built at Games Workshop over the years has these 
advantages, and we do work very hard to provide the right products, the right services and to retain 
management's focus on our specialised offer.
Just as a niche marketer knows that quality is more important than price, and that respect for the customer
is paramount, it also knows that mass-market advertising is expensive and ineffective compared to the
power of word of mouth.
I think it is worthwhile going over our advertising policy as it offers some interesting insights to the nature of
our businesses.
We have a simple rule of thumb: no advertising.
Rules of thumb are best if they are short, unequivocal, and absolute.  That means they are usually broken all
the time.  In that time honoured tradition this is a rule we break all the time, but never, I hope, in spirit.  So
why do we have the rule, why do we break the rule, and why don't I care (much)?    
We have the rule because there is a common assumption in business life that if you want people to know
what you are doing you advertise.  In our business, as in other niche businesses, the best way for us to get
known is by word of mouth.  Nothing is more likely to generate interest than the recommendation of a friend.
So our prime advertising task is to generate as many enthusiasts for our products and services as we can.
We do that by providing the right products and services in as many places as we can, and we do that by 
opening more Games Workshop Hobby stores and by encouraging more independent retailers to carry our
lines properly.  We need to be out there to talk to people to see if our hobby is the one they are interested in.
In that sense the staff in our Hobby stores and in our retail partners are our advertising.  In turn that means
our Hobby stores and our independent retail partners - particularly the better ones - are our marketing.
Games Workshop Group PLC 2
CHAIRMAN'S PREAMBLE The question this model begs is: wouldn't it work even better if you got more people in your Hobby stores by
mass advertising? I have to agree that mass advertising would get more people in our Hobby stores. But 
simply having more people wouldn't do us any good. We are not selling ice cream, we are encouraging those
predisposed to do so to love the hobby of collecting, painting and wargaming with fantasy themed miniatures.
Each person that comes in has to be introduced to what we do. We are already busy at peak times doing that,
we certainly don't need hundreds more casually interested people clogging up the system.  What we do need
is more places to introduce people to the Hobby.  So we open more Hobby stores and try to work with more
independent retailers.
Word of mouth is a wonderful way to market.  It is extremely effective and it is free.  We simply do not need to
spend the huge sums required to advertise.
We break the rule about not advertising in two ways.  Firstly, as we distinguish between mass advertising
aimed at the public at large and local promotional advertising to announce the opening of a new Hobby store,
or club, or event.  Secondly, we occasionally get involved with organisations whose business is geared around
a mass advertising model to market their own products.  We are quite happy to ride along with the upswing
in business which that may bring.  But we are forever vigilant. Such upswings may bring about a step change
in the way our business in that territory operates or they may be a cruel bubble that will burst the minute the
advertisements cease.  A good example of this is DeAgostini, our licensee, producing a serialised gaming 
supplement based upon our Lord of the Rings tabletop battle game.  It's never possible to tell until too late
which of the two phenomena is occurring. On the whole we have, in the past, been able to keep most of the
upside.  (We are all touching wood hoping the same is true of the surge we have had in the UK business this
second half.)
I said at the beginning of this statement that I didn't care (much) that we break our 'no advertising' rule.
Now you can see why: either we break it for sensible small scale promotional activities or we only apparently
break it. All the times you have seen the words Games Workshop in the recent TV advertisements someone
else has been paying for them.  Nevertheless I do care a bit - and that care is a function of the focus and 
specialisation we must bring to what we do.  We at Games Workshop must all in our hearts hate mass 
advertising so we are never tempted into the destructive downward spiral a dependence upon it would bring.
Our business model is robust and well proven over time.  To attract more customers we must open more
Hobby stores, work with more good independent partners; then we must provide customers with an 
experience they will enjoy for life.  So far we have been successful in this: we aim to continue.
Shareholders
It has been my pleasure over the years as a director of Games Workshop to meet an astonishingly wide 
variety of individuals and institutions that either own shares or are interested in owning shares.  The variety
is not limited to their personalities but includes their reasons for wanting our shares.  Those reasons, if 
they lead them to buy shares, affect their attitude to how we run this company.  Let me tell you what that
attitude is.
We are running this business for the very long-term.  (I use the term 'we' carefully; I am now speaking on
behalf of the entire management team.)  We expect it to be there so it can pay into our children's pensions.
We will never do anything in order to improve our share price that is not in the long-term interests of the
business.  Not only do we believe this is the best way to build a business, we also believe it is the best way to
enhance shareholder value over time.  
Shareholders who want to buy shares that grow in value over time are true investors, they truly think like 
owners.  Those who are seeking sudden, rapid increases in share price so they can realise a quick gain are
gamblers.  They are taking bets on our company.  I think you will guess that we sympathise with our owners.
When I am asked about the future value of the shares I always explain that we believe this business can 
continue to deliver linear sales and profit growth (not compound, for that way madness lies).  Over time I
expect the share price to reflect fairly the value of the business we are building.  More than that I cannot say.
I don't have a crystal ball.
Games Workshop Group PLC 3 Our owners, quite rightly, ask from time to time what we intend to do with their cash.  All the cash we 
generate belongs to our shareholders.  Our attitude to that cash is as owners.  Simply put: if we can't use it
to generate better returns than the average over the long-term then we should hand it over.  As it happens
most years we generate more cash than is needed for the sensible investment in the business and the 
payment of the dividends.  In those years we plan to return that money to our owners by buying back our
shares.  We believe it is the best way of returning the value to those shareholders who act like owners.
Obviously as this is a policy designed to return owners' money to them it will never include borrowing to buy
back shares.
To decide whether we are good custodians of your money I think it is useful to look at the chart on page 12
which shows the returns we are earning on the investments we are making on your behalf.  
Non-executive directors
I have learnt over the years just how valuable good non-executive directors (NEDs) can be.  We are very lucky
here to have three excellent NEDs, all of whom work very hard on your behalf.  Chris Myatt is our senior
NED.  An accountant by training, a businessman by experience, he is a practical man by nature.  Chris chairs
our business committee in which the detailed performance of the business is raked over each month, and
our remuneration and nomination committee.  He never lets a detail go unexplained, and if I find that 
irritating from time to time you should find it very comforting.  Alan Stewart was a senior merchant banker
and more recently has been a very successful CEO of Thomas Cook.  He chairs our audit committee.  He is
keenly (even aggressively) interested in ensuring shareowners get their due.  Nick Donaldson is a senior 
corporate financier.  A barrister by training he brings his forensic skills to chairing our city committee.  This
committee monitors the Company's interaction with the investment community.  It also checks every word
that the executives release to the world, in our half year and full year statements and at other times.
What impresses me most about these people, and what should give you great comfort, is their independence
of mind.  This is something all NEDs should have, but no list of rules will ever guarantee it.
The Games Workshop community
At last year's AGM we had a very welcome attendee.  Laurie Stewart, president of the Gaming Club Network
in the UK, is one of the very many unsung heroes of the Games Workshop community.  Every day unpaid 
volunteers run clubs and organise events for the benefit of gamers.  Without these people our community of
enthusiastic gamers would be very much the poorer.  I like to think the relationship is mutually beneficial, but
nevertheless I tip my hat to these heroes and I trust that all Games Workshop's shareholders will join me in
a heart felt thank you. 
Tom Kirby
Chairman and Chief Executive
Games Workshop Group PLC 4
CHAIRMAN'S PREAMBLE continued