 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 3
Welcome to the 2006 annual report and my second as
your Chairman.
To avoid undue repetition, the main commentary on
the business and the operations is being contained
within the Chairman's Statement. Commentary that
would traditionally have appeared in the Operations
Review will now be encompassed within this
Statement.
The financial results declared for the year ended 
30 April 2006 include for the first time, the combined
businesses of Lotteryking Limited and Kelly's Eye (No 1)
Limited. As a consequence, year on year comparison
becomes something of an academic exercise. Adding
further confusion to the issue of comparison is the
fact that prior to acquisition, Kelly's Eye traded as 
a private company, where the need for financial
reporting was less demanding. However, drawing
comparisons with Lotteryking Limited, pre acquisition,
it is encouraging to see turnover growing by 73% to
 5.3m and the profit from operations increasing by
 95,000 to  112,000.
The financial results, which we believe show positive
and solid progress, have been influenced by a number
of factors, principally attributable to the Kelly's Eye
acquisition. The integration of the two companies was
somewhat more protracted than had been originally
anticipated. There was an element of business
disruption during the latter part of 2005, as the new
Exchequer accounting system was introduced group
wide. The tailoring of the Exchequer system, to meet
the bespoke operating requirements of the company,
was more complex than first envisaged. As a direct
consequence,  50,000 worth of additional training
and consultancy costs were incurred. These costs have
been taken to the profit and loss account; a further
 37,000 of post integration costs, mainly IT hardware,
have been capitalised. 
As we anticipated, with the takeover of Kelly's Eye 
we have seen a fall in the group's gross margin
percentage from 59.78% to 50.05%, which is primarily
due to the fact that Kelly's Eye was selling at a much
lower gross margin than Lotteryking. We expect that
over the next twelve months that the margin will
strengthen slightly given the improved buying power
that we now command. 
The Kelly's Eye (No. 1) Limited acquisition was in part
satisfied by an  800,000 loan from Barclays Bank and
in the course of the year,  61,000 of interest charges
have been incurred on this loan. Interest charges did
not feature in previous years. 
The Buncefield Oil Terminal explosion on 11 December
2005 added to the trading disruption, with the Hemel
Hempstead offices remaining inaccessible for a period
of six days.
An acquisition, followed by a programme of
integration, can often be a prolonged process but our
integration programme is now complete and there are
early signs that benefits will occur from the joint
business.
As I reported at the Interim, two other small but
strategically important acquisitions were made during
the year. The business interests of Club Gemini were
acquired, the transaction satisfied via a cash payment.
The Club Gemini acquisition secured a stream of club
business in the northwest and prevented it from
falling into competitor hands. Secondly the Group
employed Paul Davidson. He had previously been a
sole trader, trading under the name Independent
Leisure Supplies. His employment brought his
contracts and customers to the business. This helped
strengthen our position in the northeast and has
allowed the company to position a regional sales,
service and distribution hub in the region.
The company continues to exercise caution in relation
to cash management, and the year-end net cash
position of  613,000 represents a 27% improvement
over the previous year. During the course of the 
CHAIRMAN'SSTATEMENT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 4
year  386,000 worth of capital expenditure was
incurred, principally on the production of new vending
terminals. 
The value of receivables has risen sharply at the year
end from  484,000 to  819,000, an increase that is in
direct relation to the increase in turnover. Creditors
(excluding loans) have risen from  406,000 at the
previous year end to  996,000. Whilst these increases
are symptoms of growth, both creditors and debtors
are being carefully managed.
All costs have been carefully controlled throughout
the year with no significant increases. Group costs
have remained static. 
Total equity in the company has risen by 31% to
 2.7m and the earnings per share have risen from
0.015p to 0.017p.
In the Chairman's Interim Statement I made reference
to a number of initiatives that were being progressed
and pursued at the time, together with changes in
legislation that may impact on the club environment.
I now have the opportunity to bring shareholders up-
to-date with the latest developments.
The Gaming Act 2005
The impact of the Gaming Act 2005 will be limited as
it applies to registered members' clubs. The company
is in the process of issuing to all clubs, a ready guide
to gaming in clubs and the legislation changes.
The Smoking Ban
For a period of time it was felt that registered
members' clubs would escape the smoking ban but at
the eleventh hour they were caught up in the catch
all  ban. The impact that the ban, which is scheduled
to come into effect in the summer of 2007, will have
on club attendances and future club membership is
unknown at this stage. 
Club View Network
The Club View Network initiative has made good
progress with over 25 clubs now signed up to the
service. The plan is to have a minimum of 75
subscriber clubs signed up by October 2006. Where
Club View Network has been introduced, it has been
well received. Phase Two of the project, which will see
more software applications being introduced, is about
to get underway. In tandem with Phase Two will be a
drive to begin the process of achieving individual
member sign up.
To enhance the Club View Network appeal to members
and to encourage sign up, Gamingking has entered
into a commercial relationship with Jackpotjoy, to
launch the online LotteryKing Instant Win Games site.
A series of promotional campaigns across all clubs will
be launched to help create maximum awareness of
this on-line facility.
The pull-tab lottery tickets will also be used to help
introduce players to the site.
Skills With Prizes (SWPs)
The SWP estate now stands at eight machines and 
the company continues to monitor closely the
performance and player acceptability of the terminals,
long term. With few exceptions the terminals are
performing well. However, in the absence of software
that will permit, not just the linking of the terminals
for tournament play, but also the remote polling for
cash reconciliation purposes, there is a reluctance to
increase the size of the estate. The relevant software
is scheduled to be available later this year.
New Ticket Vending Terminals
Throughout the year the company has been
developing new lottery ticket vending terminals. 
The terminals have been designed to enhance player
appeal and afford the company a competitive
advantage. These new modern terminals are scheduled
to enter the market in August 2006. CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 5
Product Catalogue & Loyalty Card
The much-anticipated Product Catalogue will be
launched this summer and I am hopeful that its
introduction will act as an important stimulant to
sales. In concert with the catalogue, for the first time
in its history, the company is launching a client club
loyalty card scheme. The CROWN card is designed to
encourage client clubs to source more product from
the company, as it grows its product repertoire.
Themed Lottery Tickets
An agreement has been signed with Granada Ventures,
the ITV commercial arm, securing the rights to use
the Coronation Street caricatures on pull-tab tickets.
These themed tickets, which we believe will hold 
wide player appeal, will be deployed in the club
environment but more importantly will also be the
launch ticket for the trial of Your Local  Lottery in
pubs and other public places.
Your Local  Lottery
As previously reported, the company is keen to deploy
its lottery management expertise in areas external to
the club arena. In an endeavour to meet the current
lottery legislation, which demands some form of
human intervention, whilst also seeking to maximise
player spontaneity, it has been necessary to design 
a new form of vending terminal for the pub
environment.
This task has been successfully completed and tickets
are in design. The trial launch of Your Local Lottery 
is now scheduled for late summer 2006.
I very much hope that the above, together with the
task of knitting three acquisitions together these past
12 months, will give shareholders a flavour for the
work that your Board and management team has been
actively involved with, as it seeks to grow the
company.
Looking ahead your Board remains committed to its
objectives and will examine all opportunities to create
shareholder value. Our current trading is showing some
impact from the effects of the World Cup and the very
warm weather but our expectation is that sales
performance will improve over the coming months. 
There are a number of resolutions to be put to
shareholders at the AGM to provide the Board with
some flexibility.
I would like to take the opportunity of thanking 
John Sanderson, who retired from the board in 2005,
for his years of service to the Company and also to
welcome Andrew Speak who has replaced John as 
non-executive director.
Our employees have worked extremely hard
throughout the year, rising to the challenges and
supporting Group endeavours. I continue to be
impressed by their commitment, enthusiasm and
professionalism and extend grateful thanks to 
them all. 
Douglas Yates  Chairman
27 July 2006