 05
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 07
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW 
A year of restructuring, focusing 
on expansion and renewal of fleet, 
maintenance of a balanced chartering 
strategy and high quality fleet management.
SUMMARY OF 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
   Financial performance: 
Revenues for 2007 increased 
by approximately 30% over 
those of 2006, while EBITDA 
increased by 34% and net 
profit by 150%
   Successful capital raising via 
rights offering in October 2006 
with net proceeds of 
US$24.5 million utilised 
to fund fleet expansion
   Cost efficient operations, 
restructured fleet and 
corporate management 
operations reducing the 
average daily vessel operating 
expenses by 6% and the total 
general and administrative 
expenses by 23%
   Dividend initiation as of 
1 June 2007 - up to 50% 
of annual profits
   A year of restructuring with 
new Management team taking 
over in June 2006 and a new 
Board of Directors in place 
in accordance with corporate 
governance best practices, 
setting strategy and strategic 
aims within a framework of 
prudent and effective controls, 
making use of monitoring 
tools, streamlining decision 
making process, ensuring that 
resources are in place to meet 
objectives and reviewing 
management performance 06
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 07
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW CONTINUED
2007 was a transition year in the development 
of GO Carriers. Since our Management team 
took over in June 2006, we embarked on a 
complete corporate restructuring programme 
aimed at improving the effectiveness and 
efficiency of our operations, expanding and 
renewing our fleet, enhancing our financial 
disclosure and investor relations and following 
corporate governance best practices. 
Our objective has been to create a solid 
foundation, which will enable our Company 
to continue growing prudently, taking full 
advantage of the positive fundamentals of 
the dry bulk shipping sector. Our Management 
team has a substantial ownership stake in 
the Company thereby aligning our interests 
to those of all shareholders. 
We are pleased to report tangible results with 
significant improvements across the Board. Our 
revenues for 2007 increased by approximately 
30% over those of 2006, while EBITDA 
increased by 34% and net profit by 150%. 
STRATEGY
In fiscal year 2007, we initiated a fleet expansion 
and renewal programme acquiring two vessels, 
and in June 2007 we entered into agreements 
to acquire two additional vessels. This expands 
our fleet to a total of seven vessels and reduces 
the overall average age to 16 years. Our fleet 
acquisition strategy currently focuses on 
mid-aged vessels (10 to 15 years old), since 
we believe that this enables us to maximise 
returns on investment and profitability and take 
full advantage of current market fundamentals 
and long-term perspectives.
BUSINESS PROGRESS
We seek to employ our vessels under medium 
to long-term period charters with reputable 
charterers. This strategy enables us to generate 
visible and predictable cash flows and enhances 
our profitability. In this context, 100% of our 
fleet operating days for calendar 2007 and 
83.5% for calendar 2008 are already secured 
under fixed rate period employment.
The new fleet management and corporate 
structure we put in place enabled us to 
reduce our daily vessel operating expenses 
by 6% and our general and administrative 
expenses by 23%.
All of our vessels have been passed 
under the full management of Antares Ship 
Management SA a related Company which 
provides ship management services on an 
arm's length basis and at competitive costs 
compared to industry standards. 
Our objective is to focus on cost efficient 
operations. The new fleet management 
and corporate structure we put in place 
enabled us to reduce our daily vessel 
operating expenses and general and 
administrative expenses.
The establishment in March 2007 of a new 
chartering subsidiary, Global Oceanic Chartering 
Limited, is indicative of our ongoing focus on 
pursuing new business opportunities while 
improving our own operational efficiency. 
This new subsidiary is expected to streamline 
our chartering operations, lower the chartering 
commission charges on our fleet and create a 
new profit centre in relation to charter-in activities. 
RESULTS IN BRIEF
During the twelve month period ended 
May 2007 total revenues were US$27.1 million 
(2006: US$20.9 million). This corresponds 
to US$26 million charter income plus an 
additional US$1.1 million, which has been 
recognised as revenue in relation to the 
amortisation of the purchase value allocated 
to the time charter agreement attached 
to the M/V GO Patoro upon acquisition.
Net debt/book cap
34.3%
EBITDA
$15.1 million
Total revenues
$27.1 million 07
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 07
The vessels were employed at an average rate 
of US$17,250 per day, as compared to the 
average rate of US$20,616 in 2006. This is a 
result of the M/V GO Pride and the M/V GO 
Public being fixed in May 2006 under unfavorable 
market conditions at time charter rates of 
US$9,275 and US$15,750 per day respectively 
(M/V Pride for the rest of the financial year 
and M/V Public until end of December 2006). 
In addition, the M/V GO Patoro and the M/V 
GO T rader were delivered in late October and 
December 2006 at charter rates of US$25,500 
and US$19,250 respectively and as a result they 
had a contribution only during the second 
interim of the fiscal year. 
Average vessel operating expenses decreased 
by 6% or US$298 per day per vessel for the 
twelve months ended May 2007 to US$5,145 
(2006: US$5,443 per day) partially reflecting 
the change of the ship management and tighter 
control over costs.
The Company has a management agreement 
with Antares Ship Management SA to provide 
shipping management services for a fee of 
US$550 per vessel per day. The amount 
paid for management fees for the year 
ended May 2007 was US$1.0 million 
(2006: US$521,000). Management fees 
paid to Antares during the year were 
US$654,000 (for a total of 1,185 days). 
US$380,000 (for a total of 289 days and 
according to previous arrangements) was 
paid to the previous ship manager until the 
change of ship management agreements.
Furthermore, the Company has an agreement 
with Antares for the provision of administrative 
services for a fee of US$16,700 per month. 
The administrative fee paid to Antares during 
the year was US$100,200.
General and administrative expenses (inclusive 
of fees paid to related party) decreased by 23% 
to US$1.7 million (2006: US$2.2 million) 
reflecting a reduction of US$514,000 for the 
period to 31 May 2007. The decrease reflects 
the management change, cost control 
measures and renegotiation of management 
agreements for the provision of professional, 
administrative and other services. US$146,000 
of the total relates to the costs of setting up 
and general and administrative expenses 
of GO Chartering Limited (our recently 
established subsidiary). 
Effective 1 June 2006 the Group's policy 
of accounting for the vessel's cost at the date 
of acquisition was changed in order to separately 
identify the component of the vessel's cost at 
the date of acquisition that can be attributed 
to special survey and dry docking elements. 
The net effect of the accounting policy change 
was a decrease to retained earnings as of 
1 June 2006 amounting to US$137,000 resulting 
from the additional amortisation charged on 
the special survey and dry docking element. 
This change in accounting policy has been 
made by the management in order to provide 
greater transparency and is consistent with 
industry practice. 
DIVIDENDS
The high charter coverage of our fleet for the 
long-term translates into stable and predictable 
cash flows enabling us to reward our shareholders 
with an attractive and sustainable dividend. 
Therefore, as of 1 June 2007 we intend to 
commence with our dividend policy, according 
to which our Board has the discretion to pay 
dividends up to 50% of net income, excluding 
profits or possible losses from vessel acquisitions 
and disposals. GO Carriers intends to 
declare approximately a third of the annual 
dividend at the release of half year 2008 results 
with the balance being declared at the fiscal 
year end. 08
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 07
BOARD CHANGES
Given the recent vacancy of the Chairman, 
a Non-executive Board member position, 
we are currently under discussions with 
perspective candidates and we look forward 
to welcome a new Chairman to the Company.
OUTLOOK
We believe that our Company is strategically 
positioned to benefit from the positive 
fundamentals of the dry bulk shipping and take 
advantage of market opportunities as they arise. 
We believe that our strategy of pursuing 
further fleet expansion through the acquisition 
of mid-aged vessels for which we will seek 
to secure long-term period charters can be 
optimally executed, enabling us to maximise 
return on investment, generate strong and 
predictable cash flows and proceed with 
the initiation of our stated dividend policy 
as of 1 June 2007.
Our intention is to continue expanding 
our fleet while reducing its average age. 
We believe that this strategy combined with 
our hands-on  risk management philosophy, 
a strong corporate governance framework 
and tight control over expenses will ensure 
that our Company can continue to grow both 
in fleet size and profitability within the context 
of a well defined business plan, while properly 
handling the risks and opportunities inherent 
in the global shipping industry.
Our fleet expansion so far has been financed 
through a combination of equity and bank debt. 
Moving forward, we plan to finance our future 
growth, through new equity and debt, taking 
advantage of positive market conditions, our 
strategic positioning in the market and our 
strong management team.
We recognise the importance of enlarging our 
shareholder base to support our growth plans. 
T o this effect, we will enhance our investor 
relations efforts to increase investor knowledge 
of our Company and communicate to the 
investment community our development, 
progress and potential.
Our objective is to set the bar higher and 
work hard to maximise shareholder value 
for the longer term.
MICHAEL TARTSINIS
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
CHAIRMAN'S AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW CONTINUED
Net profit
US$5.5 million
EPS
US$0.17
Total assets
US$133.8 million