 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 7 6
This was a successful year for 
Greenko.  Our operating performance 
was good, EBITDA was ahead of 
expectations and we now have 
806.6 MW either operating or under 
construction.  During the year, we 
acquired 61 MW of attractively priced 
operational hydro assets; added six 
large Himalayan hydro development 
concessions; brought 180 MW of wind 
power into construction; and secured 
a  100 million equity commitment 
from GIC.  Outside our control was 
on-going currency weakness that 
affect ed	 rupee	 pr o fits	 r epor t ed	
in Euros and an unusually poor 
monsoon that impacted southern 
hydro performance.   However, our 
por tfolio	 div er sification	 strat egy	
meant that a strong performance 
by our northern hydro assets largely 
offset the monsoon's impact in the 
south, while on a constant currency 
basis our revenue increased by 10.4% 
and adjusted EBITDA by 27.5%. 
We were delighted to welcome 
GIC, the Government of Singapore 
sovereign wealth fund, as an investor. 
Its investment of  100 million into 
our ordinary shares shows great 
confidence	 in	 our	 business	 model	
and the Indian renewable energy 
market.  This was a demanding 
process and the executive team are to 
be congratulated on their success in 
attracting an investor of GIC's stature
Our	 new	 financial	 y ear	 has	 also	 star t ed	
str ongly:	 Ratnagiri,	 our	 fir st	 wind	 far m,	
was commissioned; our second wind 
farm has been completed ready for 
connection; half the turbines are 
already up at our third wind farm; and 
the monsoon's early arrival is a good 
start to the year.
Substantial capacity growth is 
expect ed	 in	 the	 2013-14	 financial	 y ear ,	
thanks to the major development 
programme that was completed in the 
2012-13 year.  We anticipate taking 
our fully commissioned asset base 
This was a successful year for Greenko. 
Our operating performance was good in spite of 
challenging conditions.
Keith Henry Chairman
Chairman's statement
Summary
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 6
Good operating performance
Revenue increased 10.4% and 
adjusted EBITDA increased 
27.5%, on a constant currency 
basis
Acquired 61 MW of attractively 
priced operational hydro assets
Brought 180 MW of wind 
power into construction
Secured a  100 million equity 
commitment from GIC
On track to grow fully 
commissioned asset base from 
244 MW in March 2013 to over 
500 MW this year Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 7 6
from 244 MW in March 2013 to over 
500 MW this year, as the initial phases 
of our main wind clusters complete 
construction.  Subsequent phases 
are likely to follow on swiftly, as the 
access roads and grid connections are 
already in place.  We recently added 
Gamesa as a turbine supplier to 
complement GE, and help deliver this 
year's construction programme. 
We have 65.6 MW of wind power 
already operational, with a further 51.2 
MW completed at Basavana Bagewadi 
and ready to deliver power when the 
grid	 modificatio ns	 ar e	 complet ed	 in	
mid-August 2013. A further 258.6 
MW of wind projects are currently 
under construction, with 471.5 MW 
at an advanced stage of development 
and soon ready for construction.  In 
addition, there is a substantial pipeline 
of future opportunities that should 
feed into our active development 
pipeline.
energy is an increasingly important 
part of the Indian energy market that 
attracts strong regulatory support 
and a favourable tariff structure.  The 
renewable  cost free' and local nature 
of our fuel source creates a unique 
opportunity for Greenko's portfolio of 
clean energy projects, which can now 
pr o fitably	 sell	 pow er	 in	 most	 S tat es	
at or below the price of conventional 
generation. This is further helped by 
the fact that wind and run-of-river 
hydro projects are quicker to build and 
do not require the onerous permitting 
and infrastructure associated with 
conventional generation.  The 
recent recapitalisation of many State 
Electricity Boards has resulted in 
significant	 incr eases	 in	 pow er	 prices,	
from which we expect our projects 
under construction and active 
dev elopment	t o	benefit.
Our hydro projects under construction 
are making good progress and remain 
set to begin commissioning in 2014. 
The 96.0 MW Dikchu project in Sikkim 
is our largest hydro project under 
construction.   Despite the challenging 
terrain found in the Himalayas, the 
unusually high rainfall in recent 
months and the requirement for 
almost 10 km of tunnelling, the project 
is on  budget and on track to start 
commissioning toward the end of the 
2014-15	 financ ial	 y ear .	 	 Building	 on	
the capabilities created at Dikchu, we 
secured a further six northern hydro 
development concessions (totalling 
425 MW) that will enable us to access 
the high voltage transmission grid and 
sell across the entire Indian market.
Market
The backdrop for power in India 
remains positive, with demand 
continuing to outstrip supply.  Clean 
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 7
Binwa Parai SHP Ratnagiri Wind Power AMR Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 9 8 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 8
Keith Henry
Chairman
Strategy
Our strategy is to create a well-
div er sified	 pow er	 por tfolio	 that	
maximises returns for shareholders. 
Our focus remains on States that offer 
a good renewable resource, as well as 
a supportive economic and regulatory 
environment for renewable energy.
As such, we work with project clusters 
that build on our local knowledge 
and goodwill, to ensure faster 
implementation, better operational 
management and more robust 
resource data. This mitigates risk, 
helps secure multiple revenue streams 
and positions us to capture the most 
attractive opportunities. 
The next few years will see an increased 
focus on northern run-of-river hydro, 
which we believe is the most attractive 
power asset in India today.  We 
also anticipate increasing average 
project sizes, to take advantage of 
the improved transmission network 
to reach a wider market of valuable 
commercial tariffs. To this end, we 
are now investing in the front-end 
development of projects that will drive 
our growth beyond 2015, with site 
work beginning later this year at the 
six run-of-river hydro projects recently 
announced in Himachal Pradesh 
and Arunachal Pradesh.  As the 
opportunities arise, we will continue 
to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, 
potential hydro asset acquisitions that 
offer attractive returns.
We have also built additional 
infrastructure capacity at our current 
wind power clusters, such that future 
expansion can happen more quickly 
and	 efficiently ,	 in	 line	 with	 our	
philosophy of focussing on utility scale 
wind assets.  While we will typically still 
build in phases of 50 MW, the eventual 
clust er s	 ar e	 lik ely	 t o	 be	 significantly	
larger and we will continue to use 
the latest Class-III wind technology 
to optimise returns.  We minimise 
the risks of project cost over-runs by 
awar ding	 fix ed	 price	   engineering,	
procurement and construction' 
contracts with our main contractors, 
and our project teams work closely 
with the contractors to support and 
monitor their performance.
We make full use of India based 
suppliers and almost all of the 
equipment, materials and services for 
our projects are sourced locally.
Board
A t	 the	 end	 o f	 the	 2012-13	 financial	
year Y Harish Chandra Prasad stepped 
down as a Director after seven years 
of diligent service, during which he 
successfully led the Board as Chairman 
from its inception.  I know that all my 
Board colleagues join me in thanking 
Harish for his unstinting support over 
these formative years.  Post the year-
end, we were delighted to  welcome 
John Rennocks to the Board as the 
Senior Non-Executive Director. John 
Rennocks	 brings	 significant	 F TSE-100	
board experience and has joined our 
Audit Committee. 
Outlook
With demand for power in the Indian 
market increasing and an emphasis on 
generation from clean energy sources, 
Greenko is very well positioned for 
strong and sustained growth.  Although 
the Indian economy's growth slowed 
this year and uncertainty around the 
upcoming elections impacted the 
currency, we believe India's progress 
remains very attractive and we are 
confident	 o f	 deliv ering	 substantial	
long-term value to our shareholders.
Over the next two years the shape 
and size of our operating portfolio 
will change substantially, as we add 
four large wind farms and complete 
the construction of six hydro projects.  
Developing and constructing projects, 
often in remote locations and very 
difficult	 t errain ,	 is	 nev er	 an	 easy	
task but the experience gained has 
enabled the Greenko team to meet 
those challenges. There is now real 
momentum behind Greenko and our 
shareholders will see further tangible 
progress this year as we commission a 
significant	number	o f	pr ojects.	
We remain on track to reach our target 
of 1,000 MW in 2015 and see Greenko 
emerging as one of the leading 
players in India's power generation 
sector.  We look forward to reporting 
further progress to you in the coming 
months.   Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 9 8 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 9
Basavana Bagewadi Wind