 4 
 
Chairman's Statement  
Dear Shareholder, 
Introductory remarks 
The year ended 31 December 2011 was overshadowed by the crisis in Syria, a crisis the severity of 
which few could have predicted a little more than twelve months ago.   
At the time of writing the crisis continues unabated and it is impossible to predict with any degree of 
confidence how or when it will reach a final resolution. The scale of the humanitarian tragedy has 
rightly dominated the media and public debate and resonates with all of us.  Underlying that tragedy 
is an evolving political and economic conundrum of immense complexity. It is against this backdrop 
that we as a Company must seek to preserve the value we have built in our Syrian assets and 
operations, for the long term benefit of both our shareholders and the people of Syria. 
Declaration of force majeure 
As a result of the progressive tightening of EU Sanctions, the Company declared force majeure under 
our Production Sharing Contract (PSC ) on 11 December 2011. We have since that date ceased to 
be involved in production or exploration activities, one key consequence of which is that currently 
and for the foreseeable future we can expect to receive no revenue from our principal asset. It is, 
perhaps, worth noting as an aside that at the date of ceasing our operational involvement we had 
experienced no security issues in our fields in the north east of Syria, an interesting reflection of just 
how localised the troubles in that country remain. 
A summary of the EU Sanctions and the measures we have taken to comply is set forth later in this 
report in the section entitled Sanctions Compliance . No useful purpose is served by my elaborating 
further, save to say that your Board has acted at all times and continues to act on the basis of 
international and local legal advice and has been at pains to keep HM Treasury properly and timely 
informed of our actions. We have also been, and remain, in regular communication with other 
international oil companies with assets and operations in Syria, who have of course to deal with the 
same set of issues. 
I have made the point often enough but it bears repeating, that this Company has no political 
affiliations or agendas. Our goal is to be a good corporate citizen in all countries and markets in 
which we operate, to comply with the letter and spirit of our contractual obligations and to obey 
fully all pertinent laws and regulations. Circumstances such as the present certainly test those 
intentions to the full. 
Our key objectives and near term strategy for Syria 
Subject to our overriding legal obligations, your Board has two specific objectives.   
First, to the fullest extent within our power, we seek to ensure the safety and well being of our staff.  
Not least of the ways in which we are going about this is to continue to employ our local staff in 
Damascus  and  to  find  useful  work  for  them  to  do  during  this  period  of  enforced  operational 
downtime . 
Secondly, we seek to preserve value for our shareholders.   
Our legal advice with respect to our declaration of force majeure is that the declaration is valid both 
as a matter of international law and within the terms of the PSC and as such, the Company's  5 
 
continuing legal right to its Syrian assets is protected. The PSC also provides legal remedies in the 
eventuality that the Syrian state, for reasons of national policy, elects to continue to produce oil 
from the Khurbet East and Yousefieh fields using its own human and technical resources. These 
remedies  include  payment  for  our  share  of  oil  produced  during  the  period  of  force  majeure, 
international arbitration of any matters which cannot be otherwise resolved and, in a final analysis, 
legal proceedings. 
On a more pragmatic level, again subject to the Company's overriding legal obligations, we have 
sought to continue to maintain good working level relations with the Oil Ministry and with General 
Petroleum Corporation, the state oil company which is our partner under the PSC.  
We are also continuing, where it makes sense to do so and we are confident of making a meaningful 
contribution to the well being of the communities amongst whom we operate, to make funding 
available for high impact Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. 
As  a  Board,  we  are  convinced  that  maintaining  this  balanced  approach  to  a  bewilderingly 
complicated and constantly evolving situation is the best possible way to seek to preserve our 
position in Syria for when sanctions are eventually lifted. 
The damage done to the Company by the events of the past twelve months is plain to see in our 
share price and in the exodus of many institutions from our share register.  However, the position is 
far from hopeless and your Board remains resolute.   
Financial reporting implications 
One immediate consequence of our declaration of force majeure which does merit an explanation is 
its impact on the Group's financial reporting. This is a highly technical subject but the simplified 
explanation is as follows.   
Pursuant to the PSC, the Group holds its interest in its Syrian oil and gas production assets through a 
joint venture which is administered through a company, Dijla Petroleum Company (DPC ), in which 
the  Syrian  State  is  a  50%  shareholder.  In  accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting 
Standards  (IFRS ),  the  Group  has  in  prior  periods  proportionally  consolidated  the  assets  and 
liabilities of the joint venture.   
Now that DPC has been declared a designated entity  under the EU Sanctions and the Group is 
precluded (temporarily but indefinitely) from any involvement in its affairs, the Group has for the 
time being lost its ability to control the deployment and utilisation of its production assets. Despite 
this being what we anticipate to be a temporary state of affairs and despite the fundamental 
protections  afforded  by  the  PSC,  IFRS  mandates  that  the  Company  now  cease  proportionate 
consolidation. Instead, the Group is required to account for its Syrian production assets in the 
Balance Sheet as an investment and we have disclosed these operations separately in the Income 
Statement  as  a  Suspended  Activity .  As  such,  the  Directors  are  required  to  attribute  to  such 
investment a highly judgemental Fair Value  which has been referenced, as a practical matter, to 
the Company's current market capitalisation (as adjusted for its substantial net cash balance). More 
detailed reference to these concepts will be found in the Financial Review and in the detailed notes 
to the Financial Statements 
The  IFRS  requirement  to  deconsolidate  our  Syrian  operations  is  mandatory  as  a  matter  of 
International Accounting Standards and the Board has no discretion or flexibility in the matter.  6 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, your Board does not regard the current market capitalisation of the 
Company as an accurate reflection of its long term potential value and we have no present intention 
of seeking to dispose of our Syrian assets.   
The political risk  inherent in an investment in Gulfsands Petroleum is a matter for each individual 
shareholder  or  prospective  shareholder  to  quantify.  For  its  own  part,  your  Board  remains 
determined to do all in its power to ensure that the present hiatus in the Group's ability to exploit its 
Syrian assets is in due course reversed. 
Achievements in 2011 
As described more fully in the Chief Executive's Report and in the Operations Review, the operating 
performance  of  our  Syrian  assets  until  the  disruption  began  in  mid 2011,  the  40%  underlying 
increase  in  our  year-end  2P  reserves  (34%  net  of  production)  and  our  recent  successes  in 
exploration  drilling  are  most  encouraging  for  the  long  term.  Furthermore,  the  strength  of  our 
balance sheet and our net cash balance of close to $125 million, coupled with strong technical and 
management competence, render us well equipped both to withstand a long period of uncertainty 
in Syria and to pursue attractive opportunities in other markets. 
Directors' incentive compensation 
Your Board is acutely conscious of the severely adverse impact of the Syrian situation upon the 
Company's  share  price. Although  this  situation is  quite  clearly beyond  our  control,  we  feel  it  is 
inappropriate  in  the  circumstances that  Directors  receive  incentive  compensation  that  would 
otherwise be payable in respect of the year ended 31 December. Accordingly, cash bonus payments 
due to Directors in respect of their 2011 performance and contribution will be deferred and will not 
become payable until the Company is once again receiving payment for production from its Syrian 
interests. Furthermore, no awards will be made pursuant to the Company's Executive Share Option 
Plan in respect of 2011 performance and contribution.  
 
Concluding remarks 
I have two sets of thanks to offer.  First, to our 50% working interest partners Sinochem, who have 
been and continue to be strong and loyal supporters and collaborators throughout this most difficult 
period. Secondly, to our Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Rose, who will be leaving the Company 
shortly to pursue other interests. He has made a sterling contribution over the past three and a half 
years and leaves to his eventual successor a first class financial reporting platform. 
In conclusion, we can but hope that the coming months will bring some respite from the present 
acute difficulties in Syria, most importantly for the population but also for the Company and its 
shareholders. In the interim, we are leaving no stone unturned in our continuing efforts to find 
attractive opportunities to deploy our financial and technical firepower into fast track  geographical 
diversification. 
Yours sincerely 
Andrew West 
Chairman 
2 April 2012 
  