 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Sales Overview
Against a difficult aviation market, sales from continuing businesses remained unchanged at  419.3m (2001/02:  419.4m). We
experienced a gradual recovery throughout the year in UK passenger numbers, led by the low-cost airlines. The aviation
market, especially in our core UK market, is undergoing dramatic change. The low-cost airline sector , flying predominantly
from regional airports where ALPHA has a strong presence, continues to show substantial growth in short-haul services. In
response to this a number of short-haul scheduled and charter airlines are reducing fares to compete more effectively with the
low-cost airlines, and are radically cutting costs and reshaping their networks, with some converting to a low-cost format.
These market factors resulted in a significant 15.8% decline in sales in our UK Flight Catering business. Conversely , UK Inflight
Retail and UK Retail, with a high exposure to low-cost airlines, enjoyed a combined sales growth of 14.9%.
Profit Overview
Group profit before tax and exceptional items increased 14.8% to  18.6m (2001/02:  16.2m). As a consequence of the 15.8%
decline in UK Flight Catering sales, operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items from this part of our
business declined nearly 37%. Conversely , the combined 14.9% sales growth in our UK Inflight Retail and UK Retail business,
enhanced by major supply-chain rationalisation benefits in UK Retail, led to a dramatic recovery in operating profit in these
businesses, albeit still achieving only a modest 2.2% return on sales, this ratio up from 0.6% before exceptional items in
2001/02.
Internationally , the Group enjoyed a strong, initial full year contribution from our Flight Services investment in Jordan. Sri Lanka
Retail continued to return another excellent contribution. As anticipated the Australian Flight Services result declined, reflecting
both the full year impact following the demise of Ansett in September 2001 and the costs of acquiring and upgrading the
seven Ansett flight kitchens.
As announced in the first half, the exceptional profit of  2.1m primarily reflects the disposal of our 25% investment in an
associated company , Inflight Sales Group (Asia) Limited, and the transfer of a related airline contract to the purchaser .
Following this disposal, our Inflight Retail business is now focussed on the UK and Europe. In the second half we released
 0.2m of excess environmental provisions established in 1999 on the disposal of our US ground handling business.
Overall, Group profit before tax for the year was  20.7m (2001/02: loss before tax of  6.9m).
Dividend
The Board is pleased to announce a final dividend per share which is held at 2.6 pence per share, giving a total dividend for
the year held at 3.6 pence per share. This will be paid on 4 June 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business
on 11 April 2003.
Balance Sheet
The Group retains a very strong balance sheet, with net debt at the year-end of only  0.3m (2001/02:  1.3m) against
shareholders' funds of some  49.9m (2001/02:  43.3m). The major change year-on-year has been a  9.7m investment in
working capital, as a result of both higher stocks in Retail, and earlier payments to our trade partners, in both Flight Services
and Retail compared with the period following September 11th, 2001. The Company continues to have significant headroom in
its  60m bank facility .
Business Development
To drive future sales and profit growth, we are currently expensing some  1m of costs on an annualised basis through our
investment in two key Flight Services development initiatives. Firstly , the development of our Inflight Service Management
concept in the UK to manage the total inflight catering requirements of our network airline customers. We are delighted that
British Airways CitiExpress, the UK and European short-haul subsidiary of British Airways operating outside London, will be our
launch customer and we are investing in the necessary people and technology infrastructure to fulfil this initiative.
Secondly , the development of ALPHA D'lish, our internet pre-order meal project for short-haul travellers booking their airline
tickets on the internet, with an anticipated trial and launch date in 2003. Costs this year include people, market research and
website development expenditure.
2  ALPHA Airports Group Plc Graham Frost (Chairman) with left to right, Heather McRae (Finance Director), David King (Executive Director Retail), Michel Ennesser (Non-Executive
Director), Lesley James (Independent Non-Executive Director), Kevin Abbott (Chief Executive), Terry Stannard (Independent Non-Executive Director),
and Robert Stephenson (Executive Director Flight Services).
ALPHA Airports Group Plc  3
Flight Services
Post September 11th, 2001, market conditions remained challenging throughout the year . In line with our expectations, total
sales from continuing operations declined 6.2% to  245.4m (2001/02:  261.7m), with a first half decline of 8.1%, followed by a
reduced decline of 4.2% in the second half. Operating profit before tax from continuing operations (before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items) was down by 11.8% to  15.7m (2001/02:  17.8m).
UK scheduled and charter meal volumes declined 13.5%. With our UK airline customers continuing to seek savings in the
difficult market conditions, average meal spend declined 1.4%, generating an overall sales reduction in our major UK Flight
Catering business of 15.8%. As expected with the transfer of many British Airways' short and long-haul flights from Gatwick
to Heathrow, our Gatwick Flight kitchens suffered an  11 million decline in sales. Following implementation of full domestic
back-catering by both British Airways and bmi towards the year-end, our regional kitchens also suffered. However , the
continued application of our Innovate process improvement model across our UK Flight Services operations enabled us to
achieve a further 6% improvement in our wage cost to sales ratio, thereby mitigating some of the profits decline from depleted
customer meal budgets and lower meal volumes.
Inflight Retail, providing onboard retail services (including food and beverage trolley service sales) for low-cost and charter
airline customers, continued to grow with sales ahead of last year by 21.9% and now representing nearly 29% of our UK
Flight Services activity .
Internationally the results benefited from a strong full year contribution from our recent Jordan flight kitchen acquisition, which
more than offset a reduced contribution from Australia. The seven ex-Ansett flight kitchens that we acquired on short-term
leases are being refurbished, with four already operational serving Australian regional airlines.
Retail
The Retail division enjoyed a sales growth of 10.3% to  173.9m from continuing operations, with operating profits before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up 58.1% to  6.8m (2001/02:  4.3m). UK Retail sales increased 12.2%, with like-
for-like sales growth in ALPHA Airport Shopping (duty and tax-free) at UK regional airports up 10% on a 6% growth in
passengers led by continued growth of the low-cost airlines. Following two years of losses, UK Retail has returned an
operating profit of  2.1m (a 1.4% return on sales), due to a combination of sales growth, supply-chain simplification, divisional
overhead savings and a withdrawal from loss-making contracts.
International Retail results (from continuing businesses) were maintained, with the ongoing recovery in Sri Lanka tourist arrivals
continuing throughout the second half. People
After the trauma of the loss of 923 jobs at the end of 2001/02, we thank all our ALPHA colleagues for their excellent on-going
commitment and flexibility in achieving service success in a very challenging and fast changing market. We are continuing to
invest in the further development of our people and, via our UK annual Employee Opinion Survey, we listen acutely and
responsively to their needs. We are pleased that satisfaction rates across the UK have increased significantly during the
past year .
Board
I have thoroughly enjoyed my first year as Chairman of ALPHA. We have seen significant change in the Board during the year ,
ending with the imminent retirement of Sir Hugh Bidwell as a non-executive Director on 31 March 2003. We thank him for his
tremendous input and service over 10 years. I am delighted that in Terry Stannard and Lesley James we have been able to
recruit to the Board high quality , independent non-executive Directors with appropriate catering and retailing backgrounds. As
previously announced on 1 February 2003, we also welcome David King to the Board as Executive Director for ALPHA Airport
Shopping in the UK, whose personal contribution to the recovery of this business has been significant.
Strategy and Outlook
The company's strategy remains focused on the continued development of our core skills of catering and retailing for airlines
and airports, and building deeper and wider outsourcing relationships with our customers. The company is in good shape,
both managerially and financially , to grow organically and by acquisition, both in the UK and internationally .
Under normal circumstances, ALPHA would be well positioned to deliver growth in sales and profits in the coming year .
However , given the recent commencement of military action in Iraq and continued concerns about terrorism, it is possible that
traveller confidence and hence aviation activity could be negatively affected over the peak summer months, with a consequent
impact on ALPHA 's business during this critical period in our financial year . Our experience in taking the necessary action when
faced with similar business pressures holds us in good stead to react to any changes in our business as they occur during the
current conflict.
Graham Frost
Chairman
27 March 2003
4  ALPHA Airports Group Plc
Chairman's statement (continued)