 03 GWR Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Our hard work has
begun to pay off as the
market recovers and
GWR has outperformed
the industry
Profit before tax has
virtually doubled
Ralph Bernard CBE
Executive Chairman
Executive Chairman's 
statement
This year GWR has produced excellent results. Our
hard work to implement structural changes and
systems improvements during the difficult times of
the advertising recession is paying off as the market
recovers, and GWR has outperformed the industry.
UK Revenues are up by 8.8% to  125.6 million and
profit before tax and amortisation has virtually
doubled to  17.1 million. Our balance sheet is
markedly stronger too. Following the disposal of 
our remaining overseas interests and the sale in 
May 2004 of our stake in Radio Investments Limited,
our debt is now at its lowest level for 5 years. This
strong progress makes it possible for the Board to
recommend an increased dividend of 6.3p per
share, an increase of 8.6%.
We can look forward to the future with confidence,
because the strength of our brands in analogue
radio is matched by our leading position in digital
radio. Among other achievements during the year,
we have formed a powerful relationship with BT
Wholesale, announcing in May 2004 that we 
would work together to develop the  Livetime'
datacasting operation pioneered by GWR. With
sales of digital radios now well past 500,000 units,
the value of the Group's first mover advantage is
now becoming clear. 
Financial Results
UK revenues improved, up by 8.8% compared to last
year, from  115.5 million to  125.6 million. Following
the sale of our remaining overseas operations, 98%
of our revenues this year came from the UK. The
Group's total revenues for the year were  128.7 million
(2003:  127.1 million). 
Underlying* operating profits were up by 24% to
 20.7 million (2002/03:  16.7 million). The underlying
operating profit margin, excluding digital investment,
improved from 19.7% to 22.3%. Profits before tax,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 
were up 99.5% to  17.1 million (2003:  8.6 million).
Exceptional items produced a profit of  4.1 million,
mainly from sale of Vibe Radio Services Limited. 
Executive Chairman's statement 04 GWR Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Executive Chairman's 
statement 
continued
During the year, our debt reduced by  35 million
to  64.6 million, resulting in a saving to the Group's
interest charge of  1.9 million, mainly by the sales of
our investments in various overseas and non-core UK
assets. Since the year end, the disposal of our stake
in Radio Investments Limited has reduced debt to
 54 million. 
Headline** earnings per share for the year were 
up 67% to 8.0p (2003: 4.8p). During the advertising
downturn the Board's policy was to maintain the
level of the Company's dividend, consistent with 
its confidence in GWR's future. This year, as the
advertising market has begun to recover and 
GWR's performance has confirmed its resilience, 
the Directors have decided to recommend a final
dividend of 4p, giving an increased total dividend
for the year of 6.3p. 
UK Analogue Radio
In a generally improved advertising market, our
analogue business has performed strongly, delivering
an advertising revenue increase of 8.4%, ahead of
the 7.8% achieved by the radio industry as a whole.
National radio revenues - which account for 51% 
of our total revenues - rose by 8.7%, while local radio
revenues increased by 7.9% year-on-year. These
results reflect the operation of our new inventory
control systems, which moved airtime into the more
profitable national revenue sector through the 
year, and our new dynamic pricing system which
improved yields.
Our improved profitability owes much to the
restructuring of the Local Radio Group (LRG)
management into functional streams, separating
programming and content (Creation) from sales
(Opus). This change enhanced our ability to react
quickly to changing market conditions. We also
benefited from the decision to concentrate
resources on the six LRG stations most demanded 
by advertisers. The focus on improving breakfast
audiences - the key revenue earning segment - 
saw LRG's breakfast audience improve by 3.9% 
in the most recent RAJAR (Radio Joint Audience
Research Limited) audience figures, for the January
to March quarter of 2004. Industry awards have 
also confirmed the improved quality of GWR's
programme content, with a Gold and Silver 
Award at the 2004 Sony Radio Academy Awards. 
LRG contributed 69.3% of the Group's revenues 
during 2003/04.
Classic FM has seen strong growth in advertising
sales and sponsorship during the second half of the
year. This revenue was up by 16% year on year in the
six months to 31 March 2004, with a rise of 2.3% for
the year overall. The principal reason for this was the
return to the market of strong brand names from 
the retail, motor and finance sectors. Encouragingly,
Classic FM audience growth has also been strong,
with its national market share rising quarter on
quarter from 4.3% to 4.5% in the RAJAR quarter 1
2004 figures. The station overtook Kiss FM and Magic
to reach the third largest commercial audience in
London, giving it a London market share of 5.4%.
Classic FM has also won a number of awards for the
quality of its programming during 2003/04, including 
a Silver Sony Award, and was named  Media Brand
of the Year' by Marketing Week. It is increasingly
successful across other media as well as radio, 
with Classic FM TV now attracting a significant
audience and the CD and publishing operations
well supported. Classic FM contributed 21.9% of the
Group's revenues during 2003/04.
Digital Radio
The last year has seen an acceleration in the
development of digital radio. The number of digital
receivers in use reached 500,000, and the Digital
Radio Development Bureau forecast that figure to
reach 1,000,000 by December 2004. There are now
more than 25 manufacturers selling over 75 models
of DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) receivers.
Listener numbers were sufficiently large to be
included for the first time in RAJAR results, with Planet
Rock achieving a weekly reach of 242,000. We are
now generating advertising revenue from our digital
channels for the first time. Our digital businesses
generated revenue of  8.1 million this year (2002/03:
 6.5 million), an increase of 24.1%. 05 GWR Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Executive Chairman's statement
Reflecting the strategic importance we see in digital
radio, our overall net investment in digital radio in
2003/4 (including Livetime) was  5.5 million (2002/03:
 4.7 million). Excluding Livetime, our investment in
digital radio fell by  0.4 million to  3 million, as a
result of the growth in our multiplex profits exceeding
the increase in our broadcast investment.
After the end of the reporting year, GWR and BT
Wholesale announced that they would work
together to launch the digital datacasting system
developed by GWR as the Livetime project. GWR
has licensed its datacasting activities to BT Wholesale
and is investing a further  2.75 million over 18 months
in exchange for a share of revenues over  30 million
per annum. This caps GWR's datacasting investment.
The first revenue share is expected in the year
ending March 2007, with a projected pre-tax
revenue share in excess of  5 million by the year
ending March 2008 if the business plan expectations
are met.
The new venture will source and deliver multi-media
content to mobile phones and similar devices using
the data carrying capacity provided by the Digital
One national digital radio spectrum. Datacasting
should also speed up significantly the growth in the
number of devices capable of receiving digital
radio broadcasts. GWR, as the holder of the prime
assets in digital radio, will derive the most benefit
from this. 
Regulation
In December we welcomed our new converged
regulator, Ofcom. Ofcom has begun its work by
consulting extensively on many aspects of its
principles and operations, and GWR has responded
constructively and in detail. We hope that Ofcom
will promote the economic efficiency of our 
industry by operating with a light touch and
encouraging self-regulation, as was promised 
when it was established. 
The Communications Act relaxed the ownership
restrictions for radio stations, introduced the  2+BBC'
local ownership rule, and allowed one company 
to own more than one national commercial radio
service. This simple and effective regime was
unfortunately complicated by the introduction 
late in the legislative process of a plurality test. In
addition, as we reported in the last Annual Report, 
in April 2003 GWR was prevented from owning
Galaxy 101 in the west of England by a ruling from
the Competition Commission. These developments
have cast some uncertainty over the prospects for
consolidation in the industry, and we look forward to
clarification of the regulatory position. 
The Board
Over the past year the Board has been considerably
strengthened by the addition of two experienced
non-executives. In November, Alastair Ross Goobey
CBE joined as Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director and Deputy Chairman Designate. 
As Chairman of the International Corporate
Governance Network and a past Chief Executive 
of Hermes Pension Fund Management Limited,
Alastair brings a considerable understanding of
corporate governance to the Board. 
In January, Patricia Hodgson DBE was appointed to
the Board. With a career spanning senior positions in
the BBC, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission
and the Competition Commission, and most recently
as Chief Executive of the Independent Television
Commission, she brings an in-depth knowledge of
broadcasting, government and regulation to GWR.
These additions to the Board, and a number of
improvements we have made to the manner in
which the Board operates have brought us much
closer to the standards expected of companies by
the new Combined Code***. We are committed to
further progress during the current year. 
Outlook
GWR is now a streamlined and efficient business.
Forward bookings are stronger than last year, and 
in April UK advertising revenues were up 10.5%. May
revenues are forecast to be up 2.5%, in line with our
expectations. The Board expects the Group to show
continued improvement in its revenue and profit
performance over the coming year.
Ralph Bernard CBE
Executive Chairman
26 May 2004
* Underlying results exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items. This presentation is used to provide a normalised picture of the
Group's earnings, making year on year comparisons more valid.
** Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with 
the definition by the UK Society of Investment Professionals in their
Statement of Investment Practice number 1 - see note 10 to the 
financial statements.
*** The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into
effect in July 2003 and applies to UK listed companies for reporting
years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.