 A glance backwards and a glimpse forwards
As previously announced, I will be stepping down from the Board 
immediately after the AGM on 25 July 2013. Halma has only had two 
Chairmen in the past 40 years, the founder, David Barber, and myself. 
When David stepped down in July 2003 he departed from the annual 
reporting format of commenting on the year's results and instead 
reflected on some of Halma's achievements over the years. I thought 
I would do the same, as the results are reported fully elsewhere in this 
report, save to say that 2012/13 was another record year and we are 
recommending a dividend increase of 7%, the 34th year of increases 
of 5% or more.
Welcome to Halma Mr Unwin 
My first AGM was in July 2003 and what immediately struck me was 
the number of private shareholders who were there - all passionate 
Halma followers. One gentleman came up to me and said, I have 
been a loyal shareholder for many years and thanks to the 
progressive dividends from Halma, have been able to educate my 
children. So thank you, welcome to Halma Mr Unwin . He then fixed 
me with a look that said and don't mess it up  (it may have been 
stronger!). It then really struck home what a privileged and onerous 
responsibility I had taken on.
Glancing back
So what has changed over the ten years?
Firstly, what has not changed is the fundamental business model: our 
companies operate in niche markets where demand is underpinned 
by strong growth drivers. They produce high returns on sales and 
capital, and those returns go to pay taxes, dividends and re-
investment in the business, including buying more companies with 
similar characteristics. All this is embraced by strong reporting and 
controls.
One significant change was the appointment of Andrew Williams as 
CEO in February 2005, only the third CEO in Halma's history. Andrew 
provides clear, calm, insightful leadership and the Group's 
performance under his tenure speaks for itself. He is a pleasure to 
work with.
Our strategy has been sharpened, and the framework under which 
we operate more clearly defined (detailed in this Annual Report).
Delegation and strong autonomy has been re-enforced at the 
subsidiary company level. Our Managing Directors have huge 
freedom to operate and to innovate in response to what their 
customers are telling them. This freedom also generates high 
job satisfaction.
CHAIRMAN'S
ST A TEMENT
...the performance over
these years is due to a truly 
dedicated team of people
across the Group. 
4Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The necessary financial and management resources have been put 
in place to support our strategy. Two examples illustrate this.
  Acquisitions: our Divisional Chief Executives (DCEs) are 
tasked with identifying suitable acquisitions. The pressure on their 
time was such that we found we were not seeing sufficient 
opportunities and when we decided  to put money to work' we 
could not always reach our goals. So, we strengthened our 
acquisition sourcing efforts with a few highly experienced 
executives to support the DCEs. Our recent acquisition history 
illustrates that this is working effectively but, there will continue 
to be times when we decide that the economic climate or prices 
are not favourable and therefore we will stand aside for a while.
  Geographic expansion: we recognised that we were underweight 
in the faster growing economies and unless addressed, our growth 
would suffer. The problem was how to make it easier for our 
companies to enter those markets? Our solution was to create 
hubs in China and India (with other sector-based hubs now 
following) staffed by people with the remit to do whatever was 
necessary to make it easier for our companies to start operating 
there. One can see a logical progression of our business in, say, 
China. We start with a hub, then increase local sales through our 
regional offices, then local product assembly, then local R&D. As a 
result more MDs are resident in the region and finally we start to 
acquire companies, e.g. Longer Pump acquired this year in China. 
In 2003 under 10% of our business came from Asia Pacific, this 
year it is over 16% and in China our headcount has moved from 70 
to 770. We have made a significant investment and the foundations 
are strong for growth in the future.
Incentives. At the beginning of the period, bonuses were rarely 
achieved and options were under-water. We refreshed the total 
remuneration framework based around Economic Value Added (EVA) 
together with introducing new long-term incentives all aligned with our 
strategy and adding shareholder value. Shareholders can see very 
clearly that in very good years bonuses will hit their maximum and 
in poor years may well be zero. They correlate. No surprises there, 
they are based on EVA. It was also flattering to hear that one of our 
major shareholders cites the Halma remuneration scheme as a model 
for others!
Much emphasis has also been placed on the quality of our company 
boards, particularly against the ever-increasing demands of global 
markets. Formal management training has been introduced tailored 
to our needs. This started with the Halma Executive Development 
Programme and now runs right through to our own graduate 
development programme. This has also encouraged our companies 
to develop training programmes of their own.
We have taken steps on gender diversity at the Board level, although 
at the company level it is much more difficult unless more female 
talent is encouraged throughout our operations. Pleasingly, in 2013, 
the majority of our graduate programme recruits are female. 
A number of promotions have come from within so that people 
can see career opportunities across the Group - not just their 
own company.
There has been a major shift in sharing and co-operation, helped by 
our training programmes and using technology (intranets and social 
media) to enable it. We introduced a Halma Innovation and 
Technology Exposition four years ago, which is now held every two 
years to enable all the companies to share their innovation and 
technology with other Halma companies. This event has become 
more and more powerful and effective; there is a palpable buzz in 
the air.
In the period since March 2003 we have increased our dividend 
per share by 79% declaring  300m of dividends for shareholders. 
Halma's market capitalisation has increased nearly five-fold and
we have become one of the top 150 companies on the
London Stock Exchange. 
A glimpse forwards
  The basic model is sound and our strategy, which is kept under 
challenging review, will evolve, just as it has done over the years.
  More and more of our subsidiary boards will have to deal with the 
challenge of moving from domestic, single continent operations to 
global, multi-continent operations. As we know, this is not a trivial 
matter and the model that works best for each company will largely 
be dictated by the structure of their customers.
  To compete we have to have the best teams, so training, 
development and talent spotting will continue to increase 
in importance.
  2016 or thereabouts will be a key year; the year when China is 
forecast to overtake the USA as the world's biggest economy 
(according to the OECD after accounting for price differences). This 
will have a profound effect. For Halma, it means that the centre of 
gravity of R&D will change, and that's only three years ahead!
  These changes will test our structures, but I know Halma will rise 
to these challenges.
  Progress up the FTSE also brings new pressures. More and more 
people will be aware of Halma.
  Finally, for sure, the pace of business and innovation will not get 
any slower. I used to say in a previous life, that what used to take 
us nine months to achieve would shortly be required in nine weeks 
and then, who knows, nine days!
I hope this gives some insight into the way Halma has evolved over 
the last ten years and gives a glimpse to the future.
What is certain is that these changes, and the performance over 
these years is due to a truly dedicated team of people across the 
Group. It is their focus on our customers and the markets they serve 
that make the difference. To everyone in Halma, I say a sincere thank 
you for all that you have achieved, you have made my role a pleasure.
I should also like to thank my predecessor, David Barber, for making 
my induction into the Company he founded so smooth; to all my 
colleagues on the Board, they have been terrific, both challenging 
and supportive as needed.
Finally, in Paul Walker, we have a highly successful international 
businessman with the relevant experience and the right personal 
attributes to chair Halma to even greater heights. I look forward 
to you welcoming him at the AGM.
It has been a privilege. 
Geoff Unwin
Chairman
5 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Business review  10-59
Governance  60-86
Financial statements  87-147
Overview  02-09