 Introduction
In what continues to be a challenging time for most
companies, especially those in the technology sector, I am
pleased to be able to report on a year of excellent progress
by the Alphameric Group. The momentum achieved in the
first six months continued in the second half and we
recorded good revenue growth, higher margins and
substantial improvements in both profits and cash flows.
The Bookmaking Division's contribution to the year's results
was very strong with the installation of its Alphabet bet
capture and settling solution to Coral, Stanley, Tote
Bookmakers and Done Brothers and the securing of our
largest ever order for our betting shop display system
(ALBOS) from Ladbrokes.
The Retail Division performed satisfactorily during the period,
successfully launching its new Darwin software suite for high
street retailers. Early customer implementations have been
very well received.
We also established a presence in a new segment of the retail
sector through the acquisition of Crown Management
Systems Ltd (Crown), a leading provider of information
technology solutions to the hospitality sector.
Group results
For the year ending 30 November 2002, the Group achieved
revenues of  61.9 million (2001:  56.8 million), an increase
of 9% on the previous period.
Pre-tax profits, before amortisation of goodwill, rose to  9.0
million (2001:  4.1 million) and the Group's net trading
margin progressed to 14.1% (2001: 6.3%) as the proportion
of higher margin software sales increased.
Introduction
Adjusted earnings per share increased to 6.4 pence (before
the amortisation of goodwill) against 2.9 pence per share
(before exceptional items and the amortisation of goodwill)
in the previous year.
Year-end cash balances were  13.2 million (2001:
 14.4 million) following very strong positive operating cash
flows of  11.1 million (2001:  3.1 million) and free cash flow
(cash flow before payments for acquisitions and dividends)
of  7.2 million (2001:  0.1 million). Cash expended
on acquisitions during the year totalled  6.7 million (2001:
 2.3 million).
After goodwill amortisation and exceptional items the
Group returned a pre-tax profit of  2.5 million (2001: loss of
 1.7 million)
Dividend 
Your Board has reviewed the Company's dividend policy.
Going forward, we will be looking for dividends to be covered
between 2 and 3 times by adjusted earnings per share, which
would typically mean that the Group would be paying out
under half of the free cash flow generated in the year.
In light of the strong trading performance and the
consequent free cash flows, your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 1.8 pence per share (2001: 1.0 pence per
share).This amounts to a total dividend for the year ended 30
November 2002 of 2.4 pence per share (2001: 1.5 pence per
share), an increase of 60%.
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting, the final dividend will be payable to
shareholders on the register at 21 March 2003 and will be
paid on 17 April 2003.
chairman's statement
3
At a challenging time for companies within
the technology sector, I am pleased to report
on a year of excellent progress for the
Alphameric Group  DIVISIONAL RESULTS 
A detailed review of operations is covered in the attached
Group Chief Executive's report.
Retail Betting Division 
Our Retail Betting Division had a very good year with
revenues increasing by 29% to  28.8 million (2001:  22.3
million) and operating profit before the amortisation of
goodwill increasing to  5.0 million (2001: loss  0.5 million).
Of particular note during the period was the introduction of
our new range of fixed odds betting terminals (FOBs). FOBs
are electronic betting terminals that allow licensed betting
office customers to wager on a range of electronic bets
where winners can achieve a return of up to  50,000.
Their introduction did not materially impact the year's
results but has opened up a potentially significant new
market segment for this division which could prove to be a
valuable new market for the Group.
Retail Division 
Our Retail Division had a satisfactory year with revenues of
 30.9 million (2001:  30.6 million), generating a 16%
increase in trading profit to  4.6 million (2001:  4.0 million).
Crown, acquired in September, accounted for revenues of
 2.6 million and a trading profit of  187,000.
Project Darwin, our long-term development programme to
deliver a modern suite of retail software solutions, was
completed during the year and we are now in a strong
position to market a class-leading set of software products
for all non-food retailers of any magnitude. I am pleased to
report that early sales success has been achieved. Projects
were completed for Dunelm, Shoe Zone, Clinkards and
All:Sports during the year.
Acquisition of Crown
Crown is a leading UK supplier of head office, back office,
electronic point-of-sale and web-based software solutions to
a range of customers including Costa Coffee, Pret a Manger,
Scottish and Newcastle Retailing, Yates Group plc and Noble
House Leisure. The acquisition has already yielded success
and I am pleased to report that its 2002 results fully met
our expectations.
We have integrated Crown with our existing hospitality
business to create a new unit, Alphameric Hospitality. This
broadens our market reach to provide end-to-end hospitality
solutions for pubs, clubs, coffee houses and other similar
operations. Alphameric Hospitality has the benefit of high
repeat revenues with in excess of two-thirds of its typical
annual revenues coming from long-term contracts.
Third Party Logistics Software 
A year ago, I stated that we were looking to find an
international partner to assist us in taking the Logistics
business forward. To date the search has not been successful as
the wider third party logistics marketplace has tightened and
consolidated. It is clear that, in the longer term, the third party
logistics software market is not an appropriate business area
for us to pursue unaided and we continue to investigate a
suitable path forward for this activity.
chairman's statement
4
We will continue to invest in
research and development to ensure
we are able to continue to grow our
businesses by supplying cutting edge
products and services to existing and
new customers  chairman's statement
5
BOARD CHANGE 
STRATEGY 
It is our stated aim to become the first choice provider of
end-to-end solutions in our target retail, hospitality and
retail betting markets. The Group has made significant steps
towards achieving this goal over the past two years.
The Retail Betting Division has established a leading position
in the UK retail betting marketplace. Whilst maintaining this
strong presence, it is our intention to broaden our activities
to include the wider leisure sector where it is anticipated the
progressive reform of the gaming laws will offer increased
scope for success. Careful market positioning has placed us
well to make this transition as many of the key products we
have developed and supply to the retail betting marketplace
are built on a versatile platform offering significant scope and
potential within a wider leisure sector. We are confident that
we can generate significant growth from this additional
market sector.
A key driver in our entire marketplace is the ability to
supply innovative and effective systems that significantly
enhance our customers' business processes, whilst offering
a clear business case benefit to those customers. We will
continue to invest in research and development across all
divisions to ensure we are able to grow our business by
supplying cutting edge products and services to existing
and new customers.
Organic growth will continue to be supplemented with
acquisitions that satisfy our strict strategic and financial
criteria. As we have demonstrated this year, with the
successful acquisition of Crown, a controlled acquisition
programme can be successful and add significant value to
the Group.
BOARD CHANGE 
I welcome Alan McWalter as a Non-Executive Director to the
Alphameric Plc Board. Most recently he was Group Marketing
Director at Marks & Spencer, having previously been with the
Kingfisher Group where he was Marketing Director of
Woolworths and Marketing and Business Development
Director of Comet.
I am confident that Alan's extensive business experience and
in-depth knowledge of the retail sector will make him a most
valuable addition to the Board.
OUTLOOK 
The Group has entered the new financial year with an
excellent product set, order book and prospect list.The Group
carries no debt, had year-end free cash balances in excess of
 13 million and is strongly cash-generative.
The Retail Betting Division has historically relied to a great
extent on the receipt of a small number of high value
contracts. As we stated in our trading update in December
2002, we are taking advantage of the recent changes to the
retail betting marketplace to increase our focus on smaller
value, higher volume orders with greater repetitive revenue
streams, thereby reducing this imbalance and providing
improved visibility into the future.We believe that this change
in the division's revenue model is gathering pace and that the
benefits of the move to a more balanced model should be
seen towards the close of the current financial year.
At a time when our competitors are weakening, the Retail
Division is able to embark upon a timely, targeted
marketing initiative to exploit Darwin's class-leading
technological and functional advantages. The division's
growth this year is supported by a strong order book and
level of interest from prospective customers and its
strengthening position as one of the leading suppliers of
end-to-end systems to European retailers.
Having due regard to the current uncertainties prevailing in
the economy, the Board looks forward to the current financial
year with optimism.
Rodney Hornstein
10 February 2003
Organic growth will continue to
be supplemented with acquisitions
that satisfy our strict strategic and
financial criteria  6
Our new retail software
solution  Darwin' was
successfully implemented at
a number of customers sites