 Chairman's statement
3
Introduction
This has been a year of significant progress for the Group.
Following a review of the Group's strategy, the Board
concluded that delivery of superior returns to our
shareholders required significant change. Consequently,
in November, we obtained shareholder approval to sell
the Retail Division and this was completed shortly before
the financial year-end. This, combined with the disposal
earlier in the year of our keyboard manufacturing
operation, means that the Group is now focussed on
strong growth markets with businesses that have amply
demonstrated their capacity to exploit the opportunities
these markets provide.
The overall financial results for the year were
unsatisfactory because of the very negative effect of the
results in the Retail Division.  With the sale of the Retail
Division concluded, the continuing businesses of the
Group are in robust shape to build on their current and
past success. 
I am pleased to report that both the Leisure and
Hospitality businesses performed strongly during the
year, producing results in line with revised market
expectations, and well ahead of last year. A number
of significant new contracts were won and we made
further progress in increasing the levels of long-term
repetitive revenues.
The continuing businesses generate cash and we finished
the year with a cash balance of  13 million ( 9.1 million
net of loan note commitments).
Results
Sales for the Group for the year to 30 November 2004
were  70.0 million (2003:  62.9 million), an increase of
1 1%. Excluding Retail, the continuing businesses achieved
sales of  41.1 million (2003:  35.1 million), an increase of
17%. Profit before tax (and the amortisation of goodwill
and exceptional items) for the continuing group was
 5.8 million (2003:  3.9 million), an increase of 47%.
Earnings per share for the continuing business were 3.7
pence (2003: 2.7 pence), an increase of 37%.
As a result of the trading losses for Retail and the loss on
its disposal, arising largely through writing off goodwill
balances, the Group made a loss for the year of  60
million. This equates to a loss per share of 50.9 pence
(2003: 3.5 pence loss).
The Group is financially strong. The continuing businesses
generated operating cashflows of  9.3 million, some
164% of their operating profits before the amortisation of
goodwill. Retail had a negative operating cashflow of
some  8.4 million. The proceeds from the sale of Retail of
 10 million (before expenses) contributed to the year-end
cash balance of  13 million. 
Dividend
As a result of the exceptional losses incurred on the
disposal of the Retail Division, the Company has a deficit
in distributable reserves. This prevents the Board from
recommending the payment of a final dividend for the
year despite the strength of the continuing business. To
address this issue, shareholders will be asked to approve a
capital reconstruction that will extinguish this deficit on
reserves. If shareholders agree, and subject to approval by
the Courts, this will allow the Group to recommence the
payment of dividends. In these circumstances, given the
strong financial position and prospects of the Group, the
Board expects to declare a special dividend in 2005 equal
to the final dividend that would have been proposed for
the year to 30 November 2004.  Chairman's statement
5
Alphameric Leisure
Alphameric Leisure's strong first half
performance continued into the second half,
with sales for the year up 15% to  30.3 million
(2003:  26.4 million) and operating profits
(before the amortisation of goodwill) up 44% to
 4.2 million (2003:  2.9 million).
The contract for the supply of EPoS and display
system solutions to William Hill, worth  25
million, was signed in the second half of the
financial year. We are continuing to make good
progress on this contract and we expect to
complete the delivery of the systems relating to
this contract by the end of this calendar year.
Winning the William Hill contract has further
established our position as the leading supplier
of software solutions to bookmakers.
Underlying sales growth in 2004 without the
William Hill contract was over 5%. Significant
sales were made to most of the major
bookmakers and sales were especially strong to
the independent sector which accounts for
around 40% of the market. We now supply all the
major bookmakers, as well as many of the
smaller independent bookmakers both in the UK
and Ireland.
New product developments in response to
changing market requirements, together with
replacement cycles for existing customers and
new orders from prospects, will continue to
generate growth over the coming years. Chairman's statement
6 Chairman's statement
7
Alphameric Hospitality
Our Hospitality business performed particularly
well, with sales increasing to  10.9 million (2003:
 8.7 million), an increase of 24%. Operating
profits (before the amortisation of goodwill)
more than doubled to  1.5 million (2003:
 703,000). 
A key feature of our strategy in this business is to
offer our clients a very competitive, economic
and efficient fully-managed service, typically on
a contract of up to 5 years' duration. We deliver
substantial operational and financial benefits to
our clients whilst at the same time ensuring
secure long-term revenue and profit streams to
Alphameric. Our service is offered under the
brand name Caterwide
TM
, the Web-based
enterprise resource planning system that we
have specifically created for the hospitality
sector. This service includes the provision of
electronic point of sale terminals and software in
the pubs, restaurants or cafe  s of our clients.
Information on transactions in the outlets is
automatically transferred via the Web to central
systems hosted by Alphameric, that then
produces and transmits to our clients the
management information they require to
efficiently run their businesses.
Amongst the notable long-term contracts won
this year were an  8.2 million five-year contract
for Caterwide with a large restaurant chain, and
contracts worth some  4.3 million and  1.5
million with Yates and Spirit respectively. All
these contracts are for managed services and
revenues will be recognised over the length of
the contract. Since the year end, the business has
won an order for almost  1 million to supply tills
to Pret a Manger.
Managed service contracts are significantly
improving the visibility of our secure earnings
going forward and contracts awarded during
2004 totalled almost  24 million. Acquisition
In December we further strengthened the Hospitality
business by acquiring the entire issued share capital of
Timeweave Holdings Limited ('Timeweave'). Timeweave is
the holding company of a group that specialises in the
provision of the Microsoft
TM
Navision
TM
suite of enterprise
solutions into a range of food and beverage organisations
within the United Kingdom. Timeweave was awarded
Microsoft Gold Partner status in July 2004.
The total consideration paid was  4,125,000, comprising
 3,000,000 in cash and 1,554,054 Alphameric plc
Ordinary Shares. The Alphameric plc shares comprised
within the consideration are to be held by the vendors of
Timeweave for a minimum period of twelve months from
completion.
The acquisition of Timeweave will enable the Hospitality
business to widen the scope of its offering into the food
and beverage markets and adds greater depth to its
Caterwide
TM
Enterprise Solution that it currently provides
to many of the United Kingdom's most successful
restaurant, pub and brewing groups. Our first major
contract for Navision was won from S. A. Brains, a Welsh
brewery, for  600,000.
The Hospitality business is expected to continue to grow
strongly in the next few years through winning further
long-term service contracts from a lively and growing
customer base.
Disposal of Retail
Following the strategic review undertaken during the
year, the Board concluded that success in the retail
market required scale at a level that we were unlikely to
achieve organically. Our analysis showed that the returns
we would get from investing in the growth of our Leisure
and Hospitality businesses were likely to outstrip those
from investing further in acquisitions for our Retail
business.
We completed the sale of Retail at the end of November
to Torex Retail plc, for a maximum consideration of  30
million, comprising initial consideration of  15 million
and a further  15 million dependent on the financial
performance of the Retail business for the 14 months to
December 2005. The initial consideration included cash
of  10 million and shares to the value of  5 million in
Torex Retail plc. These shares were sold after the financial
year-end, for  5.1 million. 
Although the transaction generated a considerable
inflow of cash, the book loss on the sale of the business
was  56 million, principally reflecting the write-off of
goodwill acquired during the technology boom in the
late 1990s.
Outlook
We started the new financial year with an impressive
order book focussed on two substantial market sectors
where we are enjoying considerable success. Projects
involving the delivery and implementation of our existing
contracts are running according to plan.
The Group is financially sound, cash generative and we
will continue to review earnings enhancing acquisitions
within our chosen market sectors to further strengthen
the positions we already hold. 
The Group is well placed to deliver a successful 2005 and
the outlook for 2006 and beyond is positive.
Chairman's statement
8
Rodney Hornstein
7 February 2005