 INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to report that the strong trading we
reported in our interim statement continued throughout
the second half and the Group has delivered an excellent
full year financial performance.
The year ended 30 November 2005 saw substantial levels
of organic growth in both our Hospitality and Leisure
divisions. The three acquisitions we undertook in the year
are being successfully integrated and are also adding
significant value to the business.
As a Group we focus on providing comprehensive
information technology solutions to two key market
segments, Retail Gaming and Hospitality. This year a
notable feature of these markets has been fluctuating
trading patterns and significant levels of corporate
M&A activity. Against this rapidly changing background
it is particularly encouraging that our information
technology products and services continued to increase
their market penetration. I believe this shows that
even when a potential customer's focus may be
elsewhere, our products find support because they are
demonstrably capable of helping them increase revenues
and reduce costs.
RESULTS
For the year ended 30 November 2005 the Group
generated total revenues of  73.5 million (including the
contribution from our acquisitions) against the
comparable 2004 continuing operations revenue of  41.1
million, representing an increase of 79%. Profit before
taxation and the amortisation of goodwill was  9.6
million (2004 continuing operations  5.8 million before
the amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items), an
increase of 65%.
Earnings per share for the year before the amortisation of
goodwill were 7.0 pence per share against 2004
continuing operations earnings per share before the
amortisation of goodwill of 3.7 pence per share - an
increase of 89%.
The Group's balance sheet remains strong with gross
cash balances of  8.6 million at 30 November 2005
(2004:  13.0 million), after investing a net  5.5 million
in acquisitions. Net assets were  49.6 million (2004:
 46.7 million).
DIVIDENDS
Final Dividend
For the year ended 30 November 2005 the Board is
proposing a final dividend of 1.80 pence per share,
making a total dividend for the year of 2.80 pence.
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid
on 8 May 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 18
April 2006.
A key objective for your Board is to maintain a progressive
dividend policy for the Group's shareholders.
Special Dividend
As we have explained previously, the Board was unable to
propose a 2004 final dividend due to the lack of sufficient
distributable reserves. This position has been resolved
following the Capital Reorganisation that took place
in May 2005 and the strong profit generated during
2005; as a consequence it is the Board's intention to
pay as a special dividend the dividend that would have
been proposed as final dividend in 2004 of 2.05 pence
per share. This special dividend will be paid on 28
February 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 17
February 2006.
chairman's statement
3
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 3 chairman's statement
4
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 4 TRADING
Our Leisure Division, which primarily serves the
information technology needs of the retail gaming
market, had an excellent year with revenues of  52.3
million (2004:  30.3 million) generating an operating
profit (before the amortisation of goodwill) of  6.7
million (2004:  4.2 million).
During the year the contract that commenced in 2004 for
the provision of electronic point of sales (EPOS) and
display solutions to William Hill completed successfully
and we are now undertaking the roll-out into the ex-
Stanley Leisure bookmaking shops it acquired in 2005.
Our success with William Hill has led to a strengthening of
our position in the market which, together with the
release of the latest generation versions of both our EPOS
and display solutions, maintains our leading position as a
supplier to high street bookmakers.
Other notable contract wins included the provision of an
estate wide EPOS solution to Eastwood bookmakers, the
provision to Ladbrokes of our technology for its
integrated media display solution and continued success
in the independent bookmaker market segment.
ACQUISITION
In May 2005 we purchased the entire issued share capital
of Optical Mark Systems Limited for a total consideration
(including debt assumed) of  1.4 million. We have already
integrated the acquired risk management, telephone
betting and Internet product solutions into the Leisure
Division's product portfolio.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Until comparatively recently we have been unable to
exploit overseas the leading position we have in the UK
retail betting market because of the specialised basis
under which UK and Irish licensed betting offices operate.
However, the legislative environment is changing in the
European Union and we are optimistic that a significant
market opportunity to deploy our products and services is
opening up for us in the European Community.  
During the year we continued to invest in enhanced
products and services, and this financial year will see us
accelerate development expenditure in the confident
expectation of growing further repetitive and profitable
revenues for our Leisure Division, both in the UK and
overseas.
chairman's statement
Alphameric
5
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 5 chairman's statement
6
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 6 chairman's statement
7
Alphameric
TRADING
Our Hospitality Division continued its trend of rapid, profitable
growth, generating revenues of  21.2 million (2004:  10.9 million)
and operating profits (before the amortisation of goodwill) of  2.9
million (2004:  1.5 million).
During the year we continued to win orders from industry leading
customers including Laurel Pub Company, Tattershall Castle Group
and the West Cornwall Pasty Company.
Orders taken by this division in the past twenty four months now
exceed  40 million. The long term repetitive nature of the
Hospitality Division's typical contracts allows us a good degree of
visibility of its forward trading patterns, which remain encouraging.
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 7 ACQUISITIONS
In December 2004 we acquired the entire issued share
capital of Timeweave Holdings Limited for a consideration
of  4.1 million. Timeweave specialises in the provision of
the Microsoft Navision suite of Enterprise Solutions and its
product set is now part of our Caterwide software suite,
Caterwide Dimension.
In March 2005, we acquired the entire issued share capital
of Telectronics Systems Limited for a total consideration of
 6.8 million. Telectronics provides EPOS, back office and
ancillary services to the hospitality sector. Its products
have also been merged within our existing product
portfolio.
Both of these businesses are being successfully integrated
into our Hospitality Division. 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The business model for our Hospitality Division is to
provide, often on long term contracts, a complete web
enabled solution that helps organisations both increase
their revenues and reduce their costs.
The Hospitality Industry continued to see significant M&A
activity during the year which has presented us with some
excellent opportunities. Our Caterwide product is
designed to interface with all of the major legacy solutions
that are present in the market, making an excellent
platform for businesses that are planning to expand
through acquisition. Two such VC owned businesses,
Laurel Pub Co. and Tattershall Castle Group, have both
chosen Caterwide as their key technology platform.  
We believe that, following our sales successes and a
programme of continued product development, our
solutions enjoy an unrivalled level of capability to meet
the needs of the UK hospitality market and that we can
now pursue opportunities overseas.
OUTLOOK
The Alphameric Group has entered this new financial year
with momentum gained from an excellent 2005 financial
performance, a strong balance sheet and class leading
products across the Group.
We are determined that both Alphameric Leisure
and Alphameric Hospitality take full advantage of their
present competitive strength. We recognise the need to
continue to invest in the development of our products and
services and will pursue appropriate earnings enhancing
acquisitions. 
The Leisure Division is tasked with developing new
revenue streams from content and collaborative
opportunities in the United Kingdom and overseas and to
position itself to develop actively other opportunities
emerging in the European Community for its products and
services.
The Hospitality Division will be looking to maintain the
momentum of growth it has achieved over the past two
years. We will also be examining how its resilient web
enabled products and services can be deployed to
penetrate markets outside the UK.
We remain confident that the Group is well placed to build
upon its current successes.
chairman's statement
8
Rodney Hornstein
Chairman
7  February 2006
front_5col.qxd  1/3/06  11:30 am  Page 8