 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 / Hardy Oil and Gas plc 06
We believe that 
the Company has a 
sustainable platform 
to continue to 
participate in the 
India growth story.
 India's economy is expected to continue its 
impressive growth and, as a result, the country's 
energy consumption will materially increase far 
exceeding current domestic supply.   
Paul Mortimer, Chairman
Corporate overview
During 2010, the Company accomplished a number of key 
objectives and realised a significant improvement in financial 
performance. The divestment of our Nigerian operations has 
resulted in freeing up of capital and management resources to 
focus on exploiting the full potential of our portfolio in India. 
Hardy's exploration programme on the Company's two blocks 
in the Krishna Godavari Basin progressed with the drilling of 
two further exploration wells. As a result of this activity, we 
were delighted to announce the fourth consecutive gas 
discovery in D3. We have subsequently submitted a declaration 
of commerciality proposal, for the Dhuribhai 39, 41 and 52 
discoveries on this block, to the GOI for review. The second 
exploration well drilled in 2011 was on our D9 asset (KG-
D9-B3) which recorded gas shows while drilling through good 
quality sands which, on testing, proved to be water bearing 
and the well was plugged and abandoned.
Despite fluctuating market conditions in 2010, the Company 
was pleased to raise $9.5 million in a successful equity placing 
at the end of 2010. The funds raised provide the Company with 
a strong working capital position with which to fund its planned 
work activity and provides some flexibility to explore other 
business development opportunities. We are delighted with the 
continued support of our core shareholder base.
Key financial results
Revenue was up from $7.7 million in 2009 to $13.2 million in 
2010 due to higher production levels (there was an unplanned 
extended shut-in of the PY-3 field in 2009) and a higher average 
realised oil price. Administrative expenses were down 
significantly compared to 2009, resulting in an operating profit 
from continuing operations of $1.9 million in 2010 compared 
with an operating loss of $7.5 million in 2009.
The Company started 2010 with cash reserves of $30.5 million. 
Net cash generated from continuing operating activities (before 
changes in non cash working capital, tax paid, interest and 
investment income and finance costs) was $4.0 million. Cash 
used for investing activities amounted to $6.1 million in 2010 for 
the drilling of exploration wells on D3 and D9. An equity issue in 
December 2010 resulted in net cash infusion of $9.5 million 
augmenting our working capital. As a result, the Company's cash 
reserves at the end of 2010 were $36.5 million. The Company 
remains in a strong financial position and has no long-term debt.
Strategy
Hardy has a clear objective to create significant shareholder 
value through an India focused upstream exploration and 
development strategy. We believe that the India sedimentary 
basins are underexplored and, as our results in the Krishna 
Godavari Basin have shown, significant accumulations of 
hydrocarbons remain to be found. India's economy is expected 
to continue its impressive growth and, as a result, the country's 
energy consumption, along with its infrastructure, will materially 
increase, far exceeding current domestic supply. Our perception 
has been reinforced recently by the entry of BP into this 
exploration province.
India's natural gas carrying capacity is expected to increase 
fourfold by 2015 to 490 mmscmd (length 24,000 km). Natural 
gas prices in India have progressively increased over the past 
ten years by over 250 per cent. With demand growth projected 
to continue, we anticipate price inflation to continue at pace. 
The combination of prospective underexplored basin's located 
within close proximity to a growing consumer market, presents 
an attractive upstream investment opportunity.
Chairman's Statement Company 
Information
Financial 
Statements Governance
Business
Review Overview
Hardy Oil and Gas plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
Offshore drilling - the Company is directly and indirectly   
involved in drilling offshore wells. In the event of a loss of 
control of a well could have a material negative impact on 
the Company.
High-cost environment - The effect of a high cost   
environment is the compounded financial impact of 
operational delays during drilling and other operations.
Production - The Company's sole source of revenue is from   
a single producing oil well in the PY-3 field. An unexpected 
shut-in would have a material impact on the Company's ability 
to generate cash flow in the short to medium term.
CY-OS/2 arbitration - In 2010 the Company and the GOI   
referred the dispute regarding our claim of entitlement to a 
licence extension for arbitration. Should the arbitration ruling 
not be in Hardy's favour the block would stand relinquished 
and impairment testing will be required.
Year end audit
The auditors have provided an emphasis of matter comment in 
their audit report with reference to the uncertainty concerning 
the Group's request for an extension of its exploration licence 
in block CY-OS/2 as disclosed in notes 2 and 15 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Going concern
Having regard to the Company's existing working capital position 
and its ability to raise potential financing, the Directors are of the 
opinion that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to 
undertake its planned work programme of exploration, appraisal 
and development activities over the next 12 months.
Outlook
In 2011 we aim to continue to create significant shareholder 
value by focusing on high impact exploration in India. We are 
particularly looking forward to the continued exploration of our 
D3 block which, with four consecutive gas discoveries, is in 
the early stage of exploration with significant upside potential. 
We expect to drill at least two further exploration wells in the 
Krishna Godavari Basin by the end of 2011.
BP's announced acquisition from Reliance of an interest in the 
Krishna Godavari Basin is a welcome development. At the time of 
the announcement, BP noted that the transaction will allow them 
to access the most prolific gas basin in India (Krishna Godavari) 
and secure a place in the fast growing Indian gas markets. We 
believe that their participation is also an endorsement of the 
quality of our exploration assets and we share their outlook of 
India's substantial natural gas demand growth potential. We join 
our partner Reliance in welcoming BP's participation in our 
exploration blocks in the Krishna Godavari Basin.
Our existing exploration portfolio in the Krishna Godavari Basin 
remains the core to our organic growth. The Krishna Godavari 
Basin is an emerging world-class petroleum province and, 
together with rapidly improving Indian gas pipeline infrastructure 
and high demand for gas, the prospects for the economic 
development of gas resources in this area are excellent. The 
Company is well positioned to see itself through its key 
exploration activities in 2011.
Paul Mortimer
Chairman
15 March 2011
In the recently announced transaction between Reliance Industries 
Limited (Reliance) and BP, (which represents one of the biggest 
single foreign direct investments in India) BP stated that the 
transaction met with their strategy to increase exposure to growing 
energy markets. BP's Energy Outlook 2030 report states that 
energy consumption in India has grown by 190 per cent over the 
past 20 years and is likely to grow by 115 per cent over the next 20 
years, a rate of over 4 per cent per annum. Gas is expected to be 
the fastest growing fossil fuel, with demand growing at a rate of 
nearly 5 per cent per annum between 2010 and 2030. India's gas 
consumption was 5.0 bcfd in 2009 and is estimated to be 6.1 bcfd 
in 2010 (comprising 4.9 bcfd production plus 1.2 bcfd LNG 
imports). Total Indian gas consumption is projected to grow to 
12.5 bcfd by 2025, and exceed 15 bcfd by 2030.
Hardy is well positioned to participate in this growth due to its 
prospective exploration asset portfolio, an established offshore 
operating track record, and strong technical, financial and 
commercial capabilities critical to upstream exploration and 
production. We believe that the Company has a sustainable 
platform to continue to participate in the India growth story. 
We also recognise that the addition of short to medium term 
production would enhance our prospects and management 
is considering various options to achieve this.
Over the past four years, our strategy has produced six gas 
discoveries from eleven exploration wells. The declaration of 
commerciality submissions made in 2010 are the next step in 
reaching our ultimate objective of realising the monetisation of 
our exploration efforts. Today we view the D3 exploration block 
with considerable optimism and continue to believe that our 
existing exploration portfolio offers significant organic growth 
potential for the Company. The arrival of BP as a partner in 
several blocks can only enhance the prospect of early 
development of our discoveries.
Governance
In 2010 Mr Yogeshwar Sharma succeeded Mr Sastry Karra 
as Chief Executive Officer of Hardy. Mr Karra remained as a 
Non-Executive Director until November 2010. Messrs Sharma 
and Karra co-founded Hardy and the Board wishes to thank 
Sastry for his immense contribution and sound leadership to 
Hardy over the past thirteen years and we wish him well in his 
future endeavours.
Following an appraisal of the Board and its members in 2009, 
the Board considers that its current structure, competencies 
and remuneration policies are appropriate for a publicly listed, 
early stage, oil and gas exploration company. In addition to a 
formal annual evaluation, the Board continually reviews the 
appropriateness of the Board's composition, structure and 
internal processes as the Company evolves.
Risk management
In 2010, the Board adopted a formal risk and uncertainties 
review process, involving the generation, identification of 
key risks and the formulation of mitigation strategies by the 
Company's senior management team. Through the review 
process the following principal risks for 2011 were identified:
Exploration risk - The Company's current strategy involves   
offshore exploration and production activities. Exploration 
is intrinsically very uncertain and whilst substantial 
improvements in predictive/interpretation technology have 
reduced this uncertainty, it cannot be eliminated.