 Henry Boot PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
www.henryboot.co.uk 8
Chairman's statement
John Brown
Chairman
In summary
 I We have invested heavily in the 
land portfolio which now stands 
at over 9,000 acres. Furthermore, 
we achieved a significant number 
of planning permissions which 
will feed into sales during 2013 
and beyond. 
 I Strategically we must now 
capitalise on these valuable 
assets, whilst at the same time 
growing the opportunity pipeline 
to ensure we continue the 
momentum in years to come. 
 I We have made a strong start to 
2013 across all our businesses. 
Plant and construction activity is 
ahead of 2012 and Road Link (A69) 
Limited is performing to plan.
 I We have geared up our balance 
sheet to take advantage of the 
nascent recovery, investing in 
the business opportunities that 
will generate growing shareholder 
returns into the future.
In my second year as Chairman, I am pleased 
to report another year of strong progress 
throughout the Group in challenging 
construction and property markets.
In the early part of the year under review 
confidence was dented by concerns 
surrounding the Euro crisis; however, in 
the second half, as those fears subsided, 
trading conditions improved and so did 
our performance. The result in 2011 benefited 
from comparatively higher land sales and, 
although 2012 was relatively quiet in sales 
terms, we have invested heavily in the land 
portfolio which now stands at over 9,000 acres. 
Furthermore, we achieved a significant 
number of planning permissions which will 
feed into sales during 2013 and beyond. 
In addition to the successes achieved in 
gaining planning permissions, we have 
a significant number of strategic land sites 
either progressing towards a planning 
application or already within the planning 
system. These will provide further good 
opportunities to grow sales in future years. 
UK house builders that have announced 
results in the early part of 2013 have reported 
increases in build and sale activity, selling 
prices and building plots purchased. These 
comments, allied to the slow but steady 
improvement in mortgage availability and 
loan to value ratios, indicate an improving 
trading environment for our land business.
Investment property yields and values have 
continued to remain relatively stable across 
our portfolio. The like for like portfolio valuation 
was marginally down over the year, however, 
the initial valuation of the development gain 
on properties finished in the year at Warminster, 
Y ork and Markham Vale resulted in a net overall 
valuation gain of  1.4m. At Markham Vale, 
we built and sold a 100,000 sq ft industrial 
unit, giving rise to the majority of the profit 
on disposal achieved in the year. During the 
year we began a mixed-use development of 
some 31,000 sq ft on Deansgate in Manchester 
which is progressing well and is anticipated 
to complete in 2013. The office element of 
this development is pre-sold and we have 
just one retail/restaurant unit remaining 
to pre-let. We commenced a 58,000 sq ft 
redevelopment in a joint arrangement 
with Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS 
Foundation Trust early in 2013 and have a 
number of other development opportunities 
approaching a start on site. We remain 
cautious in a market where the risk of retailer 
default is higher, secondary yields are weak, 
our economy is operating below full capacity 
and there is vacant space available in all 
categories. We therefore only commit to 
development when we have a high proportion 
of a site pre-let on terms that achieve 
development returns in excess of our hurdle 
rate. Our development activities more than 
achieved this in 2012. We expect to continue 
to see relatively weak growth and new lettings 
are, we believe, likely to be with tenants 
moving to better property in better locations. 
Therefore, it is probable that older, secondary 
properties in weaker locations will struggle 
to maintain their capital values and rental 
returns. We very carefully review valuation 
risk and continue to sell assets and recycle 
capital into newer developments to ensure 
we maintain the quality of our asset portfolio.
Coming into 2012, industry commentators 
were forecasting tough trading conditions 
within construction markets. Whilst this was 
true, our management pursued every available 
opportunity diligently and the result, which 
was slightly better than 2011, reflected that 
hard work. The value of our typical contract 
is relatively low and we are undertaking a 
growing proportion of refurbishment work. 
At the end of 2012 we had contracted over 
70% (2011: 60%) of our budget workload for 
2013, the best position achieved for some 
years. Our plant business performed in line 
with 2011 and, as confidence began to return 
to our customers and markets, we saw average 
weekly turnover increase 13% in the second 
half compared to the first. Road Link (A69) 
Limited continued to perform very satisfactorily 
in line with our concession plan and previous 
years. Traffic volumes continue to be stable 
and, despite some awful winter weather and 
flooding in the summer, we kept the road 
operational throughout 2012.
Year of strong progress
In my second year as Chairman, I am pleased to report another year of strong progress 
throughout the Group in challenging construction and property markets.
_2_BHY_ar12_front_(NB_MR).indd   8 4/12/2013   2:17:02 PM Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Henry Boot PLC
Operational review Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.henryboot.co.uk 9
Financial results
Turnover reduced to  103.1m (2011:  114.6m) 
due to lower land sales, which in turn reduced 
trading profit to  12.3m (2011:  20.8m). 
However, the combination of development 
gains valued for the first time, along with 
realised profits on investment properties 
disposed of, amounted to  2.4m profit 
compared to a deficit of  4.3m in 2011. 
Net interest costs were broadly similar in 
both years, resulting in profit before tax of 
 13.9m (2011:  16.1m). Profit attributable to 
shareholders actually increased marginally 
because tax charges fell to  2.5m (2011:  5.3m). 
This change arose in part because of lower tax 
rates on current tax and because revaluation 
gains are not charged to tax until they are 
realised and, as they are not sufficient to 
absorb previously unrecognised deferred tax 
assets, the tax rate in the year is lower than 
the statutory rate. Earnings per share increased 
to 7.3p (2011: 6.9p). Total net assets reduced 
slightly to  181.9m (2011:  186.0m), as the 
increase in the IAS 19 pension deficit and 
dividends paid exceeded retained earnings. 
Net assets per share were 139p (2011: 142p), 
though we take comfort from our strategic 
land portfolio which, as inventories, is valued 
at the lower of cost or net realisable value 
and therefore has significant inherent value 
to the Group. As anticipated, debt levels 
rose to  21.9m (2011:  2.3m) as we invested 
over  19m in our land portfolio, successfully 
progressing more sites swiftly through the 
planning process.
Dividends
Subject to shareholder approval, the Board 
recommends a 12% increase in the final 
dividend to 2.90p (2011: 2.60p). This gives 
a total for the year of 4.70p (2011: 4.25p), 
an 11% increase. We remain committed to 
growing dividends to shareholders as results 
and market conditions allow.
Employees
It is through the dedication, skill and hard work 
of our employees that we achieve success 
within our businesses. On behalf of my fellow 
Directors, I thank all our employees for the 
results they have achieved and look forward 
to meeting future challenges and developing 
our businesses together with confidence.
Strategy
Henry Boot has operated successfully for 
over 125 years; we take a long-term view of 
opportunities in the land, property development 
and construction sectors. We look for parts of 
our business to generate recurring income and 
cash flows, whilst others, land and property 
development, offer higher potential returns but, 
being deal driven, returns inevitably fluctuate 
annually. The last two years have seen us 
reinvest more aggressively in these two cyclical 
parts of our business and, by the end of 2012, 
these commitments resulted in more planning 
successes on land and increasingly worthwhile 
development opportunities. Furthermore, 
we created a jointly owned house building 
business, operating in the north of England, 
that in 2013 will be operating from three small 
sites. Strategically we must now capitalise 
on these valuable assets, whilst at the same 
time growing the opportunity pipeline to 
ensure we continue the momentum in years 
to come. As you read the business review 
you will see the tangible delivery of this 
strategy and its ability to drive business 
growth into the future. 
Outlook
We have made a strong start to 2013 across 
all our businesses. Plant and construction 
activity is ahead of 2012 and Road Link (A69) 
Limited is performing to plan. We have a 
number of profitable developments in progress, 
have already concluded two land sales and 
have a significant level of interaction with 
the planning process which, if successful, 
will result in a growing number of profitable 
disposal opportunities to a growing house 
building industry. The risks to the recovery 
highlighted above continue to be mortgage 
and debt availability within the property sector, 
further cutbacks in capital expenditure by 
Government and perpetual upheaval and 
policy changes within the planning system, 
which place ever-increasing demands 
on land values.
On balance, these risks have diminished 
over the year and we have geared up our 
balance sheet to take advantage of the 
nascent recovery, investing in the business 
opportunities that will generate growing 
shareholder returns into the future.
John Brown
Chairman
19 April 2013
_2_BHY_ar12_front_(NB_MR).indd   9 4/12/2013   2:17:02 PM