 Chairman's Statement
Hertford Internation Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
01
The beginning of a new and exciting 
growth phase for the Group 

Introduction
I am pleased to report the results of Hertford 
International Plc (Hertford , Company  
or Group ) for the fifteen month period 
ended 31 December 2008. These results 
mark the end of a very important, busy and 
challenging fifteen months and signal the 
beginning of a new and exciting growth 
phase for the Group. 
The focus of our management team during 
the period under review was on stabilising 
and positioning the Company to ensure  
that full advantage can be extracted 
from the significant, potential growth 
opportunities now available to us. As a 
consequence, the period was relatively 
inactive in terms of trading. With the  
Group now successfully positioned and 
with key strategic progress achieved the 
immediate priority of your Board is  
to deliver revenue growth through recent 
and future acquisitions, product innovation 
and by increasing the value of our  
customer relationships.
As we are all aware, 2008 as a whole 
saw unprecedented uncertainty across the 
financial services industry. The Banking 
sector, particularly in Europe and the United 
States, has undergone dramatic change 
and the relationship between banks and 
consumers is being reassessed. Your 
Board believes that these changes will 
broaden the base of potential customers 
for Hertford's suite of products and there is 
already growing awareness and demand 
for services such as cheque cashing and 
prepaid debit cards. 
Against this backdrop, your Board has used 
its extensive experience to secure low cost 
distribution, develop a product range that 
reflects current consumer demand in these 
difficult times and to maximise the value per 
transaction. These developments have been 
achieved in conjunction with a reduction in 
overheads and other costs. 
Summary of Financial 
Statements
As outlined above, our first period of 
trading activity remained fairly inactive. 
This is reflected in the operating results of 
the Company. Our turnover for the year 
was  144,270 and, after direct expenses, 
we report a gross loss of  64,871. With 
administrative expenses and exceptional 
items totalling  1,963,884, our operating 
loss totalled  2,028,755. Our net 
Finance costs after investment income were 
 24,619, creating a total loss for the 
period of  2,053,374, equivalent to a  
5.5 pence loss per share. No dividend is 
being recommended. 
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
The current net asset position of the Group 
is  200,975, with total net assets of 
 442,526. During the year, the Company 
raised a total of  2,250,000 of new 
finance through the issue of convertible 
loan notes, of which  550,000 was 
drawn down. In addition, further new 
finance was raised in the form of new 
issued share capital ( 865,050) and 
convertible loan notes ( 500,000). The 
additional finance is being used to fund 
an acquisition in January 2009, together 
with securing sufficient working capital  
to secure the medium-term plans of  
the Company.
Prepaid Debit Cards
The prepaid debit card market is growing 
strongly and is and will remain a core part 
of the Group's business going forward. 
There are currently 2.3 million prepaid 
cards in issue in the UK and this number is 
expected to rise to 7 million by 2010.
The focus of our 
management team 
during the period 
under review was 
on stabilising and 
positioning the 
Company
Chairman's Statement Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Company informations New prepaid card product, which, vitally, 
is delivering a near 100% acceptance 

Chairman's Statement
continued
Hertford Internation Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
02
As reported in our interim results statement, a 
positive decision was taken to further invest 
in our range of prepaid debit cards and to 
establish a strong and relevant distribution 
network before dedicating cash resources 
to marketing. The result of this approach 
is refl ected in the Financial Review above 
however, we expect to reap the rewards of 
this approach in the medium-term.
In February 2009, post the period end, 
Hertford announced the launch of its new 
prepaid card product, which, vitally, is 
delivering a near 100% acceptance of UK 
resident online applicants. This compares 
very favourably to an industry average of 
less than 25%. 
The card is designed for everyday 
spending and can be used wherever 
MasterCard
 
 is accepted, which is 
estimated to be around 25 million locations 
worldwide. Following the mobile phone 
model, the eclipse card is available on a 
pay monthly or pay-as-you-go pricing plan, 
allowing users to minimise their ongoing 
costs. Cash can be loaded onto the card 
at over 40,000 locations throughout the 
UK including the Post Offi ce and PayPoint 
retail outlets. The cards can also be loaded 
via bank transfer, salary payments and 
standard debit and credit cards. 
In addition to being targeted at those 
people who have limited access to the 
traditional banking system, the eclipse 
card has a broad market appeal for other 
applications such as secure online shopping 
and budget control. 
Unlike most other prepaid cards, the 
eclipse card is easy to obtain, even by 
those recently arrived in the country. This 
availability is made possible through the 
offer of a limited-spend card, created for 
those who do not at present have a suffi cient 
electronic footprint in the UK. This facility 
ensures that all applicants are accepted. 
Cardholders of the limited eclipse card have 
the opportunity to upgrade to an un-limited 
card at a later date, subject to identity 
verifi cation. In such instances the limited 
restrictions are lifted, though the card itself 
will not need to be exchanged. The eclipse 
card complies with all regulatory and anti-
money laundering standards. 
A number of value-added services will be 
available to owners of the eclipse card 
in order to improve customer satisfaction 
and loyalty. Services include cashback, 
shopping and discount vouchers through 
the lovecashback.com portal both of 
which allow users to make material 
savings when shopping online. In 
addition, a low-cost international calling 
service is on course to be launched in 
Quarter two of 2009. 
Cheque Cashing and 
Money Remittance
Post the period end in January 2009, 
Hertford announced the completion of the 
acquisition of Cheque Exchange Limited 
(CEL ), a profi table nation-wide cheque 
cashing and money remittance business, 
from Provident Financial Plc for a total cost 
to the Company of  2,902,000 to be 
satisfi ed in cash. Given the unprecedented 
market conditions, we were delighted to 
secure underwriting from existing supportive 
shareholders which enabled us to fi nance 
the purchase. 
CEL provides Hertford with an established 
operational infrastructure, a sales force, 
and positive cash-fl ow. It also presents the 
opportunity to reduce the cost of some 
The prepaid debit 
card market is 
growing strongly 
and is and 
will remain a 
core part of the 
Group's business 
going forward
HIG2376 AR08 Front & Back AW03.indd   2 HIG2376 AR08 Front & Back AW03.indd   2 26/3/09   11:27:18 26/3/09   11:27:18 A distribution network of over 
750 retail agency outlets 

Hertford Internation Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
03
currently outsourced services and will enable 
the Company to acquire a distribution 
network of over 750 retail agency outlets 
which will be utilised to sell existing and 
other planned Hertford products and 
services including our prepaid debit cards 
which have already been integrated in our 
suite of products. 
Under the terms of the CEL acquisition 
agreement, Hertford will also be the sole 
provider of door-to-door cheque cashing 
services to Provident's near 1.7 million 
customers. A pilot scheme is being run 
and, at the time of reporting, is showing 
encouraging results. This work is in-line 
with our stated objective of accessing 
attractive distribution opportunities and, 
whilst still at an early stage, the directors 
believe it could be of considerable 
potential value.
We had previously announced our intention 
to acquire, alongside the purchase of CEL, 
a foreign exchange business. In light of the 
existing market conditions however, your 
Board decided not to proceed with the 
deal believing that distribution, in the current 
market, should take precedent. 
Current Trading and Outlook
Having completed the acquisition of 
CEL and made strong progress against 
our strategy of securing distribution as a 
priority, your Board feels that the Group is 
well positioned to provide a relevant and 
diversifi ed range of products and services 
that genuinely refl ect the current diffi cult 
times that consumers are facing. 
The Directors remain committed to 
evaluating value enhancing acquisitions, 
joint ventures and business to business 
relationships and will continue to explore 
suitable opportunities as they arise. In 
light of this, the Company will consistently 
review all additional and replacement 
fi nancing options available to it in order to 
ensure that the Group is optimally funded 
to take advantage of future corporate 
opportunities and has suffi cient cash to 
execute its strategy.
I would like to thank all of the staff for 
their efforts during the period and our 
shareholders for their support. Despite 
challenging market conditions, the Board 
remain confi dent of delivering against its 
stated goals.
Paul Marks
Chairman
25 March 2009
Despite challenging 
market conditions, 
the Board remain 
confi dent of 
delivering against 
its stated goals
Chairman's Statement Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Company informations
HIG2376 AR08 Front & Back AW03.indd   3 HIG2376 AR08 Front & Back AW03.indd   3 26/3/09   11:27:18 26/3/09   11:27:18