 3
Registered number 05193579
Group Overview
The Group made excellent progress towards 
its strategic goals in 2011 of focusing on the 
Technology and Information Division.  
It completed the disposal of the Promotional 
Marketing Division in July 2011, established 
a corporate presence in the USA market  
with Trade Only Inc. and has made progress 
in establishing a solid platform in the  
USA market. 
Now comprising one core business, the 
Group is better placed to grow revenues  
and profitability from our Trade Only 
branded solutions that provide a valuable 
information service between suppliers of 
promotional merchandise and independent 
distributors and a technology platform on 
which the parties in the supply chain may 
transact their business. 
Offered as Software as a Service model 
(SaaS ) the Trade Only technology enables 
small business customers to access software 
tools without the need for them to have 
substantial technical knowledge or  
expensive hardware resources in-house. 
Trade Only benefits from recurring license 
fees that create good revenue predictability 
for the Group.
Performance Review 
The Group operating loss before non-
recurring items, amortisation of intangible 
assets and share based payment charges was 
 0.15m (2010:  0.07m) on revenues 
increased by 21% to  3.54m (2010: 
 2.93m). The operating loss of  0.82m 
(2010:  0.13m) reflects the anticipated 
significant set-up costs incurred in 
establishing the USA operations, as well as 
other non-recurring legal and employee 
expenses, and also a significant increase in 
expensed software development 
expenditure, where  0.43m has been 
expensed in 2011 (2010  0.15m).
The Group balance sheet remains strong  
and was debt free at 31 December 2011 
with a net cash balance of  0.29m (2010 
 1.53m).  The reduction during the year 
principally reflects the  1.1m invested in  
the expansion of the Technology and 
Information opportunities net of the  0.9m 
raised by way of a share placing in February 
2011. The  0.9m net proceeds realised on 
disposal of the Promotional Marketing 
Division had largely been offset by its 
operating cash outflow in the first half of the 
year. A  4m loan note remained owing at 
the year-end under the terms of disposal of 
the Promotional Marketing Division, due for 
repayment in 2016, although I am pleased  
to report that  0.25m has been repaid early 
in April 2012.
Technology and Information
Overall in 2011, the division made an 
operating profit before non-recurring items, 
amortisation of intangible assets and share 
based payment charges of  0.56m (2010: 
 0.69m). This result included an increase  
of  0.28m in software development 
expenditure over the prior year to  0.43m.
With a clear focus on becoming a leading 
provider of Cloud-based business 
management software solutions and 
information services to small business 
globally, the Company has invested heavily in 
software development to deliver optimum 
functionality and user experience. This 
resulted in Trade Only being selected in 
January 2012 by EmbroidMe, the world's 
leading franchise for embroidered garments 
and promotional products, to provide our 
fully integrated point of sale (POS ), web 
store, customer relationship manager 
(CRM ) and order management solution  
to each of several hundred EmbroidMe 
franchise stores across the USA, Canada, 
EMEA and Australia. The launch took place 
at the UFG World Expo in Las Vegas,  
Nevada on the 16 April 2012 where  
Trade Only was a joint sponsor alongside 
Hewlett Packard.
The similarity in channel marketing  
between the print and the promotional 
product sectors encouraged us to integrate 
with providers of print services that allow 
online design and ordering. This initiative 
brings the two markets together for the first 
time, delivering what we believe to be the 
first Cloud-based resource that combines 
print and promotional products in a single 
shopping solution.
By integrating a print solution into our 
existing Trade Only VISION
 
 web store and 
order management solution, it will allow 
promotional product distributors easy access 
to the $40 billion market for on-demand 
print without the need for additional 
software or resources. 
The print module will be offered as a simple 
add-on to the existing Trade Only VISION 
system to promotional resellers, as well as  
a complete solution for print resellers 
requiring market-leading functionality.  
We are on target to launch this additional 
service during this year.  
Corporate Activity
In March 2011, the Group acquired the 
business and intellectual property of 
Technologo, a virtual sampling technology 
and in May 2011 it acquired The Logo 
Network, a provider of marketing programs 
and marketing websites to the promotional 
products distributors. These revenue-
generating businesses and their technology 
were integrated into our North American 
businesses of Trade Only Inc. and  
Trade Only Technology Services,  
respectively incorporated in California and 
Canada respectively. In July 2011, the 
subsidiaries comprising the Promotional 
Marketing Division were disposed of to  
its management.
Following an active 2011, we are primarily 
focusing our attention on organically  
growing our businesses in the UK and  
North America and extracting maximum 
value from our recent investments. However, 
we will continue to explore all opportunities 
that may arise, which may improve 
shareholder returns. 
Chairman's Statement 4
Strategy
The Board takes the following points into 
consideration when setting targets for the 
senior management team:-
i)  The growth potential globally for the 
Technology and Information Division  
is substantial. 
ii)  The Board believes that Trade Only  
offers an unrivalled set of technology 
tools for the promotional products,  
print and other similar industries. 
iii)  Continued investment in the expansion  
of our USA footprint, is key to the 
creation of meaningful shareholder 
returns in the medium term.
iv)  The Group will continue to investigate 
potential transactions and structures that 
would improve shareholder returns over 
the medium term.
v)  We remain focused on being a debt  
free company.
Focus
Our focus has primarily been on the 
promotional product sector and we  
continue to make excellent progress with 
new customers for our Trade Only VISION 
solution being added every day. We are 
confident that the superior user experience 
and fully integrated  Cloud' delivered 
solution that are benefits of our technology 
will continue to encourage migration from 
legacy providers.
We will launch our print solution offering to 
a beta group later this year. The web to print 
market is estimated at $40 billion in the USA 
alone, and our opportunity is to provide an 
integrated web store and order management 
solution for the resellers wishing to access 
this market. Our revenue will come from two 
sources, the technology fees paid by 
subscribers for the advanced solution and 
from a commission on throughput for the 
smaller customers that prefer a variable 
rather than fixed cost.
Our plans for the non-industry specific 
integrated web store through to CRM 
package are progressing well. This solution 
aimed at the SME market in the USA and UK 
will be launched during towards the end of 
the year. We believe that the level of 
functionality targeted to be offered is 
substantially superior to any other SaaS 
solution of a similar price. Our marketing 
and launch plans are being developed and 
partnership opportunities being explored. 
People
The team have responded incredibly well  
to the additional demands placed on them  
as a result of our fast paced expansion  
into additional markets in the USA. Many 
have only been with Trade Only for a few 
short months making their efforts even  
more appreciated.
We have added senior level resource in  
the California office including our new local 
CFO, Thomas Burkholder CPA and I am 
delighted to welcome him and all of our  
new team members and to thank them all  
for their continued hard work, innovation 
and dedication.
Outlook
We enjoyed another strong performance 
from our cash generative UK Exhibition and 
Information business and as a result an 18% 
increase in visitor numbers for the 2012 
Trade Only National Show. We are delighted 
to have already pre-sold 80% of the space 
for the 2013 event taking place on 23 and 
24 January 2013, giving us excellent visibility 
to the start of 2013.
Turning to the primary growth strategy,  
we believe that the market opportunity  
for integrated SaaS business management 
systems is substantial. Whilst the initial  
focus has been on the niches that include 
promotional products, print and corporate 
clothing, our longer-term plan is clearly 
directed towards the estimated 21m and 
4.5m small businesses in the USA and  
UK respectively.
Overall I am pleased with the progress made 
in the last 18 months. 2012 will be a year of 
further investment in developing our USA 
operations and progressing longer-term 
revenue opportunities, the impact of which 
will become more evident from 2013. We 
have a clear strategy, a growing customer 
base, no net debt and increasing visibility of 
recurring revenues and I look forward with 
confidence.
Colin Cooke
Chairman
14 May 2012
Chairman's Statement (continued)