 04
With physical assets and operational 
management located wholly in Russia, supported 
by an international board of directors, Highland 
Gold is uniquely placed to exploit the potential  
of the Russian gold industry.
The priority over the past year has been to 
secure the long-term future of the Company.  
In spite of a number of operational challenges, 
we have successfully broadened the 
geographical and operational base of the 
business, whilst maintaining output at our 
existing producing assets. We have also laid 
the financial foundations for future growth.
Overview of Activities During 2004
2004 was a challenging year for Highland Gold. 
The Company responded by implementing its 
strategy of continued growth by pursuing three 
major aspects of its long-term policy, namely 
developing the assets already acquired, 
expanding exploration and looking for possible 
new acquisitions in Russia and the former 
Soviet Republics.
Our core producing mine, MNV, with gold 
production of 195,026 oz in 2004, showed 
improved results for the sixth consecutive year 
with increased throughput to 927,000 tonnes  
of ore. A new mill was commissioned at our 
second working mine - Darasun - which 
produced 4,870 oz of gold in the year . Darasun 
is expected to reach full production in the 
second half of 2005.
While our full year results show a net profit 
after tax of US$5.0 million, which is down from 
2003, our operations have continued to generate 
a healthy cash flow of US$25.6 million before 
the investment in working capital that has  
been required to expand other aspects of our 
business. Although these results have clearly 
benefited from a stronger gold price during the 
year, we have suffered from escalating costs  
of consumables. There has also been an 
additional requirement for administrative 
resources as we broaden our development 
activities. The Board has considered the cash 
requirements for the capital projects of the 
Group and will therefore recommend to 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting  
a reduced final dividend of US$0.01 per share 
(US$0.015 - 2003).
It is with deep regret that I report we have  
had three fatalities amongst our workforce at 
Darasun during the year . I would like to convey 
our condolences to the families and the 
communities and re-iterate our commitment  
to providing a safe and healthy work 
environment for all of our employees.
The Company won at an open auction the right 
to develop a third deposit in the Chita region - 
Taseevskoye - and shortly after obtained a  
20-year licence for the site for a consideration 
of US$26.8 million. Our strategic partner and 
shareholder, Barrick Gold Corporation of 
Canada, has confirmed its intention to exercise 
its 50 per cent right to the Taseevskoye deposit.
In early 2005 we won at an open auction,  
with a bid of US$0.4 million, a further licence 
for exploration and production rights in the 
Chita region for the Sredne-Golgotayskoye 
deposit. Given the close proximity of the 
projects in the region there are significant 
logistical and managerial synergies.
Finally, at our largest asset located in the 
Chukotka region, Mayskoye, work progressed 
on the feasibility study, camp construction and 
the installment of communications and power 
supply systems. The results of bioleaching tests 
for recovery rates on bulk samples of ore from 
Mayskoye were encouraging. Following 
completion of the feasibility study at Mayskoye 
which is due to be delivered shortly, Highland 
Gold and Barrick Gold will discuss possible 
participation arrangements in connection with 
the development of the deposit. 
On the financial side, we successfully completed 
two share placings, raising a total of US$140 
million for Highland Gold's development.  
The Company also negotiated a 3.5 year, US$80 
million syndicated banking facility. This is  
an important financial step in strengthening 
our relationship with the international  
banking community.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
04 The Board and Management
In December 2004 and February 2005 we 
appointed Tim Wadeson and David Fish as Non-
Executive Directors respectively. Tim Wadeson 
has extensive experience in the gold mining 
industry, having been Technical and Executive 
Director at Anglo American. David Fish, also 
from Anglo American, has corporate finance 
expertise and thus will head the Audit 
Committee. Under the terms of the agreements 
entered into last year Barrick Gold has the 
right at the present time to nominate one 
Director to the Board of Highland Gold. I am 
pleased to advise that Alex Davidson, Executive 
Vice-President responsible for exploration and 
corporate development joins the Board with 
immediate effect.
Furthermore, the Management team has  
been restructured by appointing Ivan Koulakov, 
former Managing Director, to the post of 
Deputy Chairman, with executive responsibility 
for corporate development. This appointment 
will allow him to focus more on new 
opportunities in Russia and the former Soviet 
Union - one of Highland Gold's strategic 
priorities. Dmitry Korobov, former Commercial 
Director, was appointed Managing Director .  
His operational experience will permit him to 
deal successfully with the development of the 
Company's assets. Both Ivan and Dmitry were 
instrumental in creating Highland Gold in the 
late 1990s.
Christopher Palmer-Tomkinson, who has been 
with Highland Gold since 2002, was appointed 
Senior Independent Director, reflecting our 
commitment to meeting best practice standards 
in corporate governance.
Peter Daresbury stepped down as Chairman  
of the Board - a post he held from May 2002. 
Under Peter's Chairmanship Highland Gold 
was successfully floated on AIM and further 
developed its world class assets with the 
acquisitions of Mayskoye and Taseevskoye.  
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Peter for his tireless efforts for Highland Gold.
Our achievements would not have been possible 
without one of Highland Gold's main assets, 
the people who work for the Company in 
Moscow and in the small mining towns spread 
across the Eastern part of Siberia. They have 
the necessary geological, mining and 
metallurgical skills and strong ambition to 
make Highland Gold one of the leaders in  
the gold mining business in Russia. As the 
Company's operations expanded and became 
more complex in 2004, we also attracted  
new skilled professionals to the Company. 
Going Forward
The Board remains strongly committed to the 
major principles of good corporate governance, 
such as a clear division of executive 
responsibilities at the head of the Company for 
the effective running of the business, and the 
appropriate balance of executive and non-
executive directors for proper and unbiased 
decision taking.
An important factor in Highland Gold's strength 
and growth are the constructive and open 
relationships which the Company enjoys  
with the federal, regional and local authorities 
in Russia. In 2004 our Management team 
strengthened the perception of Highland Gold 
as an active and responsible presence 
contributing to the development of Russia's 
most remote territories.
The Governors of the three Regions where 
Highland Gold operates fully understand  
the importance of the Company's investment  
in projects for the economic and social 
development of their respective territories. 
They are well aware of the fact that the gold 
mining business requires significant financial, 
technical and human resources. This is why 
they value the long-term strategic commitment 
of Highland Gold. We wish to thank the 
Governors and their administrations for  
their support of our endeavours.
As part of our responsible approach, we are 
striving to achieve stricter environmental 
programmes at our mines, broadening health 
and safety measures to bring them in line with 
best international standards and to improve  
the quality of life in the communities where 
Highland Gold is one of the largest employers.
One of the most significant developments of 
2004 was our announcement in January that 
we had formed a strategic partnership with the 
Canadian gold major, Barrick Gold. Barrick and 
Highland Gold have complementary strengths. 
While Barrick Gold has long experience of 
exploration and greenfield development, plus 
considerable financial resources, Highland 
Gold has the knowledge and skills to operate 
successfully in Russia. Our initial four-year 
partnership which is extendable beyond that, 
gives us much greater flexibility for project 
development in Russia. It has already resulted 
in the agreement to form a JV company 
focused on exploration and the potential for 
sharing technical and financial expertise. 
Barrick Gold has the right to participate in the 
development of new projects. We look forward 
to the continuation of a rewarding relationship 
between our two companies in 2005.
In all this we have been helped by the fact  
that Russia offers a consistently improving 
macroeconomic climate. Over the past several 
years the volume of direct investment in 
Russian industry has increased. The introduction 
of Western reporting principles contributed  
to the development of an improved business 
culture. Further reform of the tax, administrative 
and social systems will make the economy 
more efficient. Continued political stability  
will help us plan for the future with confidence.
A stable political and macro-economic 
environment in Russia is critical in making  
our business plans for the future.
I believe that our efforts will be supported by  
a robust international gold market. The recovery 
of the international gold price since 2002 has 
been sustained, underpinned by strong physical 
demand and by reduced official sector sales 
compared with the late 1990s compounded  
by a contraction in producer hedging.
Going forward, our major challenges will  
be cost containment and the completion  
of the feasibility studies associated with our 
development projects. The Board and I have 
confidence in our Management team and  
their ability to deliver the tasks ahead.
James Cross 
Chairman
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Highland Gold Mining 05