 IN 2005 Highland Gold focused primarily
on improving the performance of existing
operations and progressing work on our
future projects. The Company furthered
its acquisition programme with consider-
able success.
Production
For our core asset MNV, located in the
Khabarovsk region, the year started poor-
ly with a serious drop in production. The
Board considered it necessary to issue a
production update in June. An independ-
ent assessment of the mining operations
highlighted a significant lack of under-
ground development and over burden
stripping at both MNV and Darasun. After
the implementation of new procedures
and cost controls in the second half of
2005, coupled with the appointment of
managerial personnel with world wide
experience, we were able to recover from
the first-half operating setbacks.
Although the overall production at MNV
fell by approximately 25% when compared
to 2004, production in the second half was
almost 70% higher than the first half of
2005. Based on this performance we are
confident of this mine's future and 
have set a production range of between
150,000 to 160,000 ounces for 2006.
Throughout 2005 our management
team persisted in its efforts to bring
Darasun, our second major operation
located in the Chita region, into full pro-
duction. Though this work is still not
complete and will continue in 2006, the
Darasun mill was successfully commis-
sioned after rectifying the initial technical
difficulties in the second half of the year.
Key staff with mining and metallurgical
skills have been appointed at Darasun
and an experienced geologist will join the
team in May. This will complete the
implementation of our management
restructuring plans for 2006 and should
result in a marked improvement of pro-
duction at the mine. The problems expe-
rienced earlier resulted in lower than
expected production, most of which was
achieved during the last few months of
2005. This resulted in a significant cash
drain on the Company and productivity
improvements especially in the under-
ground operations, are now an immedi-
ate priority. Furthermore, in addition to
production shortfalls problems in recon-
ciling mill throughput were experienced.
This prompted the Board to commission
an independent security audit in addition
to appointing new security personnel. 
Project Development
Further progress has been made on
assessing our three major projects, 
Taseevskoye, Mayskoye and Novoshirokin-
skoye. At Taseevskoye, good progress
was made with the preparatory work. We
are in the process of finalising the joint 
venture arrangements with Barrick Gold
and have progressed towards a detailed
development plan and budget for 2006.
Last year we were successful in obtaining
exploration and production licences for
the Sredne-Golgotayskoye deposit 
located near Taseevskoye which we hope
will enhance the overall potential of the
operation. In addition we acquired the
rights to retreat mill tailings from 
previous production.  
Further data was received regarding
the future development of our two other
projects, at Mayskoye and Novoshiro-
kinskoye. For Mayskoye we received an
independent JORC resource estimate,
carried out additional drilling on the site
and continued with camp construction.
At Novoshirokinskoye, external con-
sultants and a newly appointed in-house
specialist are reviewing the development
of this deposit. The outcome of this
process will be announced in the foresee-
able future.
Exploration
During the year we made further progress
in the development of our exploration
portfolio by  acquiring 3  sites with future
potential in each of  the gold-producing
districts where we are currently operat-
ing. This process has  strengthened our
presence in these areas and Barrick 
Gold have confirmed their participation
rights in all of these prospects.
Results
In 2005 Highland Gold has shown an after
tax loss of US$7.2 million as a result of
difficulties experienced at MNV and the
delay in the production build-up at
Darasun. Furthermore, production costs
particularly consumables and energy
have continued to increase. Whilst we are
likely to continue to see cost inflation at
MNV, costs at Darasun should start to
improve as production increases and
overall production costs for the Company
should show an improving trend.
Administration expenses increased
mainly as a result of the appointment of a
We have substantially
strengthened 
our senior 
management team
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
8 HG Annual Report 2005
HG008-009_directorsFIN  4/5/06  7:18 am  Page 8 number of experienced executives. From
a cash flow perspective, although, the
Company generated almost US$20.8 mil-
lion less cash from operations when
compared to 2004, a total of US$128.0
million was raised which enhanced the
financial position. These funds were
raised by the issue of new shares to
Barrick Gold at a value of US$48.9million,
medium-term debt of US$65.8 million
and US$13.3 million received from the
partial disposal of the Taseevskoye proj-
ect to Barrick Gold.
The Board has reviewed a dividend pol-
icy which remains unchanged and the
Board is unable to recommend a final div-
idend in respect of the financial year 2005.
The Company has formulated a
restructuring plan, which is being imple-
mented during 2006. This plan is de-
signed to improve productive processes,
cut costs, add additional world class
expertise and concentrate on improving
the infrastructure of the current opera-
tions. It is further intended to finalise
mine plans and feasibility studies for
those projects we assess worthy of con-
tinued development.  
Changes to the Board
In February 2006, Henry Horne was ap-
pointed as the new managing director. 
At the same time Henry became a 
director of our Moscow-based operating 
company RUSSDRAGMET.
Henry Horne, with 25 years of experi-
ence in the mining industry, succeeded
Dmitry Korobov, who had been with our
Company since its inception in 2002.
Dmitry played an important role over the
years in the group's progress and in 
providing the operational infrastructure
necessary for developing our assets in
Russia. Dmitry left the Company to 
pursue other interests. I would like on
behalf of the Board to express our grati-
tude to Dmitry for his contribution 
to the Company and for his loyal and pro-
fessional work over many years.
Barrick Gold
The blend of Russian with Western exper-
tise has been successfully demonstrated
in the development in 2005 of our rela-
tions with our strategic partner Barrick
Gold. As I noted earlier we are optimistic
about the prospects of our Taseevskoye
joint venture. Barrick Gold is actively 
participating with us in constructing and
implementing a programme to develop a
number of social projects in the town of
Baley, which will be the centre of the
Taseevskoye operation. On behalf of the
Board and management I wish to extend
our thanks to Barrick Gold for the techni-
cal assistance afforded us during 2005. 
Health, Safety and Environment
A priority for our Company remains the
need to increase the safety awareness of
all our employees about safety regula-
tions by building a culture of responsibili-
ty and involvement in safety, health and
the environment. Despite these efforts, 
it is with regret that I report that we had
two fatalities one at MNV in 2005 and
another at Darasun in 2006. I wish to 
convey on behalf of the Board and man-
agement our condolences to the families
of these employees.
In all our mining projects we strive to
support and sustain the communities in
the environs of our operations. This 
is a core priority for us as a Company and
serves as a basis for constructive and
open dialogue with regional and local
authorities. In support of the Federal
Government's policy to promote the eco-
nomic and social development of Eastern
Siberia and Russia's Far East, Highland
Gold has increased its direct investment
in these regions. 
In summary, we had a disappointing
start to 2005, as detailed in the Annual
Report. With the remedial action now
taken Highland Gold's second half has
seen improved results and this trend is
continuing. A number of new people have
and are due to join us in the near future,
with a strong emphasis on world wide
expertise, whose efforts will initially be
focused on the Darasun operation. We
anticipate further positive developments
with our strategic partner, Barrick Gold,
in a number of joint ventures, including
progressing Taseevskoye. We are formu-
lating plans on the Mayskoye project, and
now have a small team developing our
exploration projects. With the continued
improvements in the economic climate in
Russia and the gold price, Highland Gold
is well placed to benefit from these devel-
opments in the future.
Lastly I would like to thank the Board
for their invaluable input and support
during a most difficult period in the
development of the Company.
James Cross
Chairman
Chairman's Report 9
HG008-009_directorsFIN  5/5/06  4:32 pm  Page 9