 4 2006 marks a turning point for Highland Gold and will be a
year remembered as one when we put in place a number of
the key building blocks to secure the Company's long-term
future. Indeed, since the year-end we have announced
various steps forward that have only been achievable thanks
to the strong progress made on all fronts in 2006.
It was, however, also a year when we saw a terrible
tragedy in our mine at Darasun, resulting in the death of 25
of our colleagues. This devastating incident cannot and must
not be forgotten and you will see later in this annual report
the actions we have taken to help the families of the victims
as well as those, injured in the disaster. The dramatic events
at Darasun also led the Company to review its occupational
health and safety policy.
Mining Environment in Russia
Before turning to a review of the year I would like to point out
that in 2007 we will be marking five years of operational
activities for Highland Gold in Russia. Bearing in mind our
corporate experience I welcome the stability of the
investment, tax and regulatory conditions for companies
involved in mining in Russia. More broadly the economic
development in Russia during the last few years has been
remarkable and we are proud to be contributing, if only in a
small way, to the country's growth.
Barrick Gold
The most significant advancement for Highland Gold during
2006 was undoubtedly the transaction with Barrick Gold
marking the third year of our successful collaboration. The
deal, announced in December, involved Barrick Gold
increasing its stake in Highland Gold to 34% in exchange for
their 50% interest in our existing joint ventures, four further
gold exploration interests owned by Barrick Gold, the
appointment of two of their key personnel to the Highland
Gold Board as well as further appointments at executive
level. Since the transaction we have also merged our two
offices in Moscow having more than thirty former Barrick
Gold's employees join the Company. As a result, the central
Moscow team has become stronger at all levels and is better
positioned to support our operational teams in the field.
Barrick Gold brings to Highland Gold great strengths as a
world leader in building and operating mines. Combining
their technical expertise with our own world-class assets
and experience in the Russian gold-mining business, means
that we are now in an even stronger position to focus on
maximising the value of our current operations, and
accelerating our development projects.
Results
In 2006 the Company had an after tax loss of US$14.7
million before a non-cash impairment charge of US$79.3
million to reflect the combination of the continued operational
weaknesses at the Darasun operation with the tragic events
that unfolded on September 7 and a US$2.4 million
exceptional charge associated with one-off costs directly
associated with the fire. At the same time we are reporting a
higher turnover of US$102.4 million - a reflection of the
strong gold prices in 2006 and a continuation of our no
hedge policy. Throughout the year we continued investing in
our development projects - with an overall expenditure of
US$38.9 million. After the transaction with Kazzinc, which
involved selling 50% of our shareholding in the
Novoshirokinskoye property, we received US$36 million in
proceeds resulting in a before-tax profit on sale of US$18
million.
At December 31, 2006 the Group held US$31.5 million of
cash and US$80.1 million of debt. Since that time we have
announced the completion of a debt restructuring
programme. US$90 million in new financing facilities has
been raised through two Russian banks comprising a US$60
million facility with MDM Bank and a US$30 million facility
with Gazprombank. This is a key element of Highland Gold's
capital management plan and aligns the Company's debt
maturities with its business plans. These new facilities
reduce Highland Gold's cost of debt and provide significantly
more flexible covenants that are better suited to a growth
focused company, like Highland Gold. Additionally, this will
allow the Company to reclassify these debt facilities as long-
term borrowings in future regulatory accounting filings.
Production
In 2006, gold production at Mnogovershinnoye (MNV), our
core producing asset, was within the forecasted range at
151,146oz. There was a significant increase of 15% in the
open pit grades, averaging 6.24g/t Au in 2006. We have
undertaken various initiatives in early 2007 to further
optimise the operation. The mine is working stably but we
intend to continue to improve production performance
through various initiatives.
Production at Darasun operations was 16,398oz. 
Following the tragic fire on September 7, production in the
final quarter of the year continued at a reduced rate in the
Talatui open pit. In the second half of the year, 80,199
tonnes were processed from surface stockpiles and the
Talatui open pit ore.
Management has undertaken various studies investigating
the cost of reopening the mine at Darasun and is currently
Major steps forward towards
achieving our vision
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 5
evaluating these options in order to make a decision on the
most appropriate action going forward. The mine is being
kept on a care and maintenance basis, while stripping in the
Talatui open pit is continuing.
Project Development
In the key area of project development we have seen
significant progress in 2006.
At Novoshirokinskoye we signed a highly significant
agreement with Kazzinc involving the sale of a 50% interest
in our development project at the mine for consideration of
US$36 million in cash. This partnership with Kazzinc allows
us to leverage off Kazzinc's metallurgical expertise and their
extensive global sales and marketing experience.
At Taseevskoye we completed phase 1 of the exploration
drilling programme and completed an in-house scoping
study. Site preparation work is ongoing with implementation
of environmental and social responsibility programmes for
the Baley community.
The Mayskoye feasibility study is progressing well,
although delays in the development of the geological model
due to data validation will postpone the study to the middle
of 2007. We have confirmed the metallurgical process which
incorporates bio-oxidation. Auxiliary facilities like store and
camp are nearing completion.
Exploration
2006 has seen good progress being made at our five key
exploration prospects. The sites are primarily in areas where
we are already mining or are in the later stage of project
development. While the details of these prospects are
discussed in the Managing Director's report later in this
document, I am particularly keen to praise the efforts of our
teams working on these projects. I am also greatly enthused
by the expertise the Barrick Gold's specialists will now bring
to the further development of these prospects.
Changes to the Board
I am delighted to welcome two new members on our Board,
Rene Marion who is the new Chief Operating Officer of
Highland Gold and Nick Nikolakakis, vice president for
Corporate Finance at Barrick Gold. On the management
level Scott Perry has joined us as Chief Financial Officer.
We look forward to benefiting  from their wide-ranging
experience in the months and years ahead.
Darasun Tragedy
The September disaster at Darasun has become a painful
reminder of the importance of health and safety practices in
our industry. Indeed, the importance to all of us at Highland
Gold is the future health and safety of our employees and
the communities that we affect as well as the environmental
impact that we, as a mining company, have on the areas
surrounding our mines.
As the Board confirmed in September, the families of the
victims and the injured during the fire continue to be
supported by the Company. Over and above the
compensation immediately paid to the families, we have
continued to provide monthly financial support to their
dependent children.
The Board would also like to express our sincere gratitude
to all the rescue services, special mining teams from
different Russian regions, government agencies and, in
particular, the Head of the Ministry for Emergency Situations
Sergei Shoigu and the Governor of the Chita region Ravil
Gueniatullin for their tireless efforts during the rescue
operation in the tragic days at Darasun in September.
Conclusion
In summary, and without wishing to overstress the point,
I see 2006 as a turning point for our Company. We have
addressed the production setbacks we had at MNV in 2005
and continue to seek to improve production performance.
While we are still dealing with the Darasun operation in the
aftermath of the fire and assessing how best to make that
asset work for the Company going forwards, we are hopeful
of finding a solution that will benefit us and the community
dependent on the mine. We have also made real progress
with our key development projects at Novoshirokinskoye,
Taseevskoye and Mayskoye, as well as with our exploration
prospects.
Lastly, I would like to thank our Board, including the new
members, and all employees for their continued contribution
and support through a highly challenging, sometimes tragic
but ultimately significant year in the development of our
Company.
James Cross
Chairman
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006