 6
HIGHLAND 
GOLD 
MINING 
LIMITED
2012 
ANNUAL REPORT
& ACCOUNTS
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
WELL POSITIONED 
TO PURSUE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY
It gives me great pleasure to report to you on a year 
that witnessed a continuation of our growth strategy 
and leaves your Company well positioned to capitalise 
in the short- to medium-term on opportunities to 
enhance shareholder value. 
 
Throughout 2012 considerable application was 
brought to bear on achieving improvements in the 
efficiency of our business at all levels. In particular, 
management sought to: 
 Optimise current production operations
 Progress our project development and exploration 
programmes
 Refine financial and procurement practices, 
including internal audit procedures 
 Analyse and, where value adding, action potential 
M&A transactions
 Attract and retain skilled personnel through the 
utilisation of competitive terms and incentives and
 Ensure continuous improvement through the 
education of employees in relation to Health, 
Safety and Environmental issues 
Accomplishments in respect of the above benefited 
from the Directors' decision to introduce a more active 
 hands on' management approach at Board level, a 
course of action that was duly implemented through 
the appointment of four senior managers as Executive 
Directors in the summer of 2012, details of which are 
referred to below.
 
We saw a return to stable production at our flagship 
Mnogovershinnoye (MNV) mine (Khabarovsk region, 
Russia) in the wake of the challenging experiences 
of 2011 and registered records in both mined and 
processed volumes at the Novoshirokinskoye (Novo) 
mine (Zabaikalsky region, Russia). 
In line with this I am pleased to report a 17.8% increase 
in annual attributable production to a record 216,885 
oz of gold and gold equivalents, thereby exceeding 
our full year guidance estimates. This was achieved 
through a combination of rigorous management 
controls and efficiency improvements. We are 
budgeting for further growth in the current financial 
year and reiterate our forecast, issued in January, of an 
increase in output to between 225,000 - 240,000 oz of 
gold and gold equivalents in respect of 2013. 
Management of the final construction phase of 
the stand-alone processing facility at the Belaya 
Gora complex (Khabarovsk region) represented an 
operating priority throughout 2012. Significant progress 
to date will see the plant coming on stream soon and 
providing resultant benefits towards the end of H1 2013.
Further expansion of the Company's resources was 
reflected in a year-on-year increase of 2.2 Moz to more 
than 13.0 Moz in our Joint Ore Reserves Committee 
(JORC) compliant resource base. This encompassed 
both organic and acquisitive contributions, with the 
Unkurtash (Kyrgyzstan) and Lyubov (Zabaikalsky 
region) projects representing the former and the Klen 
deposit (Chukotka region, Russia) the latter.
In July we finalised the purchase of the Klen gold 
deposit and the adjacent Verkhne-Krichalskaya (VK) 
property located in the investment friendly gold mining 
region of Chukotka in north eastern Russia. The total 
consideration of US$69 million was funded through 
the Company's cash resources. Project development 
investment in the new properties commenced 
immediately with equipment and materials delivered to 
the seaport of Pevek, situated on the coast of the East 
Siberian Sea, towards the end of 2012. Initial production 
at the Klen gold project is scheduled for H2 2015 and 
operations could benefit significantly from the potential 
of the VK property where exploration is ongoing. 
The subsequent purchase of the Western Flank 
licence, immediately adjacent to MNV, represents 
an effective  bolt on' acquisition with the potential, 
particularly through the property's promising Chaynoye 
zone, to deliver additional near-surface resources, 
thereby prolonging the life of our primary producer.
In April 2013 the Company significantly extended 
its presence in the Chukotka region through the 
acquisition of the mining and exploration rights to the 
Kekura gold deposit and surrounding licence area for 
a total consideration of US$223.0 million, funded via a 
new debt facility of US$250 million with Gazprombank. 
A JORC compliant resource audit carried out by Micon 
International in 2012 estimated the Kekura deposit 
resources at approximately 2.89 Moz (Indicated & 
Inferred) at an average ore grade of 8.69 g/t. The mine 
is expected to be fully operational by 2017 with an  7
anticipated production range of 180,000 - 220,000 oz 
of gold per annum over a minimum ten year life span.
We are delighted to have secured the Kekura deposit 
which represents a major addition to our resource 
base and, as such, is expected to feature prominently 
in Highland Gold's mid to long-term production profile. 
In order to realise this potential, Kekura will represent 
a central aspect of our project development strategy 
during H2 2013 and beyond. We are also pleased to 
have created an effective operational hub in Chukotka 
and we expect the proximity of Kekura to the Klen 
and VK projects to yield various synergies in terms of 
logistics and administration. 
The completion of the Klen and Western Flank 
acquisitions in 2012 and the subsequent addition of 
Kekura to our portfolio has served to substantially 
strengthen our asset base and fully illustrates our 
declared strategy of pursuing both organic and 
acquisitive growth.
The Group has maintained a positive net cash position 
during recent years but, in order to fully develop 
our newly acquired and ongoing current projects, 
additional financing will be required. The policy of the 
Board is not to exceed a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 
2.0, although we expect this ratio to begin declining 
in 2014.
All of the Company's exploration programmes, the 
drivers of organic growth, performed according to plan 
during 2012. Positive results from three prospects within 
the MNV licence area were particularly notable. Similarly, 
exploratory activity at Blagodatnoye (Khabarovsk region) 
indicates significant resource potential. 
Management's focus on across-the-board efficiencies 
was rewarded with a reduction in the Group's total 
cash costs for the second half of 2012 compared with 
the preceding six months. Total cash costs of US$749 
per ounce for the full year were higher than in 2011 but 
remained competitive against our gold mining peer 
group. For the first time the Company also reveals a 
new cost measure - all-in sustaining cash costs per 
ounce sold. In 2012 they were US$973 per ounce 
(2011: US$837), better reflecting the Company's total 
costs of producing gold.
The Board's policy continues to be to pay dividends as 
regularly as possible, with the level of such dividends 
dependent upon the gold price, cash flows and capital 
requirements. In light of such considerations the Board 
is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 
3.0 pence per share which, taking into account the 
interim special dividend of 4.8 pence per share, results 
in a total distribution of 7.8 pence per share in respect 
of 2012 compared with 5.0 pence per share in 2011. 
Diligent implementation of our Health, Safety and 
Environmental policies was in evidence throughout the 
year, the principal focus being on Group-wide training 
and educational courses. It is with the deepest regret 
that I must note the occurrence of two previously 
announced fatalities, in April and May 2012, in spite of 
the continued improvements seen in health and safety 
practices Group-wide. Efforts to date resulted in a 
major improvement in the Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (defined as the number of lost time injuries in 
relation to every 200,000 man hours worked) which 
reduced from 0.57 in 2011 to 0.31 in 2012. Audits 
confirmed the compliance of our Environmental 
Management Systems with ISO 14001 and relevant 
certification was approved at MNV and Russdragmet 
(RDM), our Moscow-based management company, 
on 1 March 2013.
With regard to the Boardroom changes referred 
to earlier Valery Oyf, Chief Executive Officer, Alla 
Baranovskaya, Chief Financial Officer, Sergey Mineev, 
Head of Exploration & Capital Projects Development 
and Andrey Solovyov, Head of Human Resources & 
Administration, were appointed Executive Directors of 
the Company with effect from 11 July 2012. 
The Board welcomes these appointments and also the 
appointment of Peat & Co as joint broker, in addition to 
our Nominated Adviser and broker Numis Securities, 
with effect from 22 November 2012. 
By way of conclusion I would like to reiterate that 
the consolidation of operations during 2012, hand 
in hand with management's focus on productivity 
and the progression of our organic and acquisitive 
expansion, leaves us strongly placed to accelerate our 
primary objective of growing our business into a highly 
profitable mid-tier producer within the Russian gold 
mining industry. 
I also welcome this opportunity to thank all our 
employees for the hard work and dedication that was 
integral to our achievements during 2012. 
Eugene Shvidler
Non-Executive Chairman