 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
Chairman's Statement 
It is pleasing to report that the income streams from management services that will drive our future growth
have now been established and this has resulted in an increase in our underlying profitability.  This will 
continue to grow as we take advantage of further market opportunities.  We are currently managing 95 units
compared to 72 at this stage last year and we expect to reach the hundred mark in the near future.
As I noted in my interim statement in January, the year just completed has been one of major transition
following the sale and leaseback of 12 sites to Punch in February 2003 which significantly reduced our 
gearing but gave a short term loss of earnings.  We have managed to replace this potential shortfall through
our trading results.  The pace of acquiring more management contracts with Punch has been slower to
start, however, pleasingly there is currently a good level of joint activity.  We now have concluded on two
substantial sites and have agreed terms on a further two and we believe that both companies have a strong
desire to accelerate the pace of work together.
Our strategy is clear and now well established in a market place that continues to see major structural 
change, with further evidence highlighting the separation of pub ownership and pub management. The 
traditional pub owners are now in competition with a number of property companies attracted by the 
returns in the sector.  Both are short of the management pub retailing skills that we can offer as the number
of companies operating managed pubs continues to shrink.
We can now demonstrate real success with our management contract with Nectar, which now has 17
trading units.  We also concluded a deal to manage six Ma Hubbards outlets from a private operator in
December and these have traded above our expectations and we believe we can extend this concept.
Results
I am pleased to report another year of progress from your company.  For the year to 2 May 2004, profit
before tax, before goodwill amortisation, exceptionals and profit on sale of fixed assets was  1.80 million
(2003:  1.76 million), with earnings per share adjusted for goodwill amortisation, exceptionals and profit on 
sale of fixed assets of 3.9p compared to 3.8p last year.  This performance represents a modest increase on
last year, but given the loss of earnings from our Punch Taverns sale and manage-back of around
 400,000, the underlying performance has improved and will continue to improve as new management
contracts are completed.
Total revenues increased to  33.65 million (2003:  33.0 million), reflecting the net effect of the disposal of
sites in 2003 and the contribution of Ma Hubbards' for four months.  Trading was softer at some pubs in the
group's Inns and Taverns division in the last quarter of the period, but recently trading has been more
encouraging.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.3p (2003: 2.2p) to be paid on 21 October 2004 to
shareholders on the register on 24 September 2004. This gives a total for the year of 3.25p (2003: 3.1p), an
increase of 5%.
Operational Review 
The core estate has experienced tough trading conditions, but despite the lack of world cup related sales in 
this year's business, pleasingly, we have maintained our levels of trade.  Bar margins rose by just under
1.0% and food margins in like for like units rose by 1.5%.  The industry continues to experience tough
trading conditions, and against this backdrop, we have been careful to manage our cost base accordingly
and are pleased to have absorbed increasing national insurance costs, Sky TV and music licence costs, as
well as escalating business insurance premiums.  We are pleased to report that the actions taken by the 
4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
5
Chairman's Statement (continued) 
company to reduce the risk of claims has been recognised with a significant reduction of premium 
negotiated from 25 June 2004.  Despite all these pressures and constraints, I am pleased to report that we 
have maintained the profitability of our existing estate.  
A number of capital schemes were brought forward to February and March  in order to take advantage of 
seasonal trading.  A number of sites were converted to our successful Last Orders concept, including the 
Victorian House at Thornton and sites in Radcliffe and Morley.  Major successful schemes were undertaken 
at the Elephant & Castle Hotel in Newtown, Arena in Liverpool, Thatch and Thistle in Blackrod, Grey Walls 
in Windermere and the Kendal Arms in Kendal.  
We acquired a new free of tie site, the Yew Tree in Bunbury, Cheshire that benefited from a major refit and 
opened just before Christmas.  
Management Contracts 
Nectar 
Four Nectar sites opened in December, bringing the operating number up to 14 by the year end.  Three 
further sites have since been purchased and reopened with terms agreed on a further three.  Nectar's 
accounts for the year show sales being above budget by 20% and site contribution by 37%. 
We have been very pleased with the performance of Nectar Taverns where our patient policy of cherry 
picking unloved pubs in good locations has created a large increase in value for the Nectar shareholders.  
Our fees have been very healthy as they are directly related to the profit performance of the sites with the 
overall return on capital being over 20%.  Our fees from Nectar have risen to  336,000 from  26,000 last 
year.  This is based on only 50% investment of the funds available to Nectar.  Fees are expected to rise to 
close to  600,000 once Nectar is fully invested.  
Our option of up to 15% of Nectar's ordinary share capital, exercisable on disposal is now material and 
although this value cannot be formally recognised in the accounts, the Directors believe that the value is in 
excess of  750,000 based on independent valuations undertaken on behalf of Nectar.  
The demonstrable success of Nectar and the extra tax benefits granted in the Chancellor's last budget have 
led to a strong demand for the setting up of a second Nectar , ready to trade once the first is fully invested.  
The Board welcomes and supports this opportunity.  
Punch
Punch Taverns acquired the Pooley Bridge Hotel near Ullswater in November and simultaneously we took 
out our first management contract with them.  Because of the highly seasonal nature of the site, no 
contribution was made in the period but trade has exceeded expectations since Easter.  
Last week we completed our second deal with Punch on the Dovenby Ship, near Cockermouth.  Terms 
have currently been agreed on a further two sites.  The activity level with Punch has risen markedly recently 
and we believe that there are good opportunities for acquiring contracts on a number of new units in the 
coming months.  
Finance
The reduction in gearing following the sale and leaseback to Punch provided the background for a 
renegotiation of banking facilities with the Bank of Scotland.  As part of the review of overall funding 
facilities, we have charged, as a one-off exceptional cost, the sum of  533,000, for the removal of onerous 
hedging arrangements.  This has allowed us to benefit from significantly lower market rates.   ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
Chairman's Statement (continued)
With intense speculation on the future of interest rates and to provide protection against any major upward 
movement, we have taken an interest rate cap of 6% on  20m for the period from 1 July 2004 to 28 April
2006.
Following the renogitiation of banking facilities and the shorter term of the facilities we now believe it is
prudent to write off as an exceptional finance cost  447,000 of bank costs incurred with the financing of the
Devonshire acquisition which were being amortised over the life of the previous facilities.  Last year we 
made a major profit on the sale of fixed assets of  1.86m, largely as a result of the property deal with
Punch.  This year we have achieved a profit of  186,000 from the sale of one leasehold unit.
We continue to benefit from tax losses within the Devonshire group and no tax will be payable.  This benefit
will continue into the following year.  The tax charge of  377,000 relates to movement on the deferred tax 
asset/liability.
Current Trading
The new year has started satisfactorily. New developments at the Crescent, Ilkley and the Vanilla Lounge,
Keighley have been completed and they are trading in line with expectations.  In addition, we have re-
opened two new sites for Nectar Taverns, which are both performing to plan.
The two largest external factors in our business are football and the weather.  Amidst the sunshine and
showers we have enjoyed some big nights due to Euro 2004.  Our like for like sales are running some 1.5%
ahead of last year.  Given competition from both other operators and discounting on an unprecedented
scale from supermarkets, we believe this to be a creditable performance.
Prospects
The company's existing estate is expected to show modest profit growth from selective capital investment
and from improved beer and food buying terms.  We will benefit from a full year's contribution from the Ma 
Hubbards sites and steadily increasing fees from Nectar as it moves towards full investment later in the
year.  In addition, we will be looking to set up a repeat Nectar style pub company and will be investigating
the demand for a similar company acquiring Ma Hubbards type units.
As far as licensing reform is concerned, it represents the largest fundamental change in our industry for
over one hundred years. We have prepared thoroughly for the transition and we have the infrastructure in 
place to manage it satisfactorily.
Further opportunities for Management Services are expected as new sites are acquired by both traditional
pub owners and those new to the sector.
Sandy Anderson
28 June 2004
6