  04
Horizonte Minerals Plc Annual Report 2011
Chairman's Statement David J. Hall
	 A r a gu ai a 	 i s 	 fi rml y 	 o n 	
the map as one of the 
m o r e 	 s i gnifi can t 	 ni ck e l 	
l a teri te 	 p r o j e cts .  
This has been a period of exceptional 
progress for Horizonte. During the past 
year we have delivered on our key 
milestones within budget and on schedule, 
seeing us advance our flagship Araguaia 
nickel project ( Araguaia') to a stage that 
places it in the upper quartile of developing 
global nickel projects in terms of size  
and grade. We also have an active gold 
portfolio in northern Brazil which we are 
successfully developing with our JV partner 
AngloGold Ashanti Limited, giving us a 
secondary commodity focus and adding 
further value to the Company with 
minimum capital risk exposure. These 
developments, coupled with the support 
from major shareholders, Teck Resources 
and Anglo Pacific Group, give us the 
foundations from which to drive the 
growth of the Company in 2012 as we 
continue to develop Araguaia through to 
feasibility stage and generate significant 
value for shareholders.
In March 2011 we announced a maiden 
Inferred Resource Estimate at Araguaia  
of 76.6 million tonnes ( Mt') grading 1.35% 
nickel ( Ni') and 0.06% Cobalt ( Co'). This initial 
resource was hugely encouraging and 
clearly showed the potential for the project 
to be further explored and developed  
to become a major nickel asset. Due to  
a successful placing of  8.25 million in 
February 2011, which was oversubscribed 
by new and existing institutional investors, 
we were able to increase our drilling budget 
at Araguaia. To this end, we increased our 
drilling programme from 8,000 metres to 
13,204 metres and fast-tracked drilling by 
utilising seven drill rigs on site.
Over the period we also expanded our  
land position surrounding Araguaia in  
the Caraj s district to consolidate further 
zones into the project. The acquisition of 
the Vila Oito and Floresta projects from 
Lara Exploration Ltd was completed in  
July 2011 and the licences transferred in 
February 2012.
As a result of this expanded drill 
programme and further land consolidation, 
in January 2012 we were delighted to 
announce a new Mineral Resource 
Estimate at Araguaia which met with 
management's targets. An Indicated 
Resource of 39.3 million tonnes grading 
1.39% nickel and an Inferred Resource of 
60.9 million tonnes averaging 1.22% nickel 
using 0.95% nickel cut-off was calculated. 
Notably, we have converted 39% of the 
resource to the Indicated category and 
demonstrated the existence of higher 
grade zones which are vital for early mine 
life economics, as shown by the current 
Indicated Resource of 24.2Mt grading 1.6% 
using a 1.2% cut-off.
This revised resource, I believe, places 
Araguaia firmly on the map as one of the 
more significant nickel laterite assets in 
terms of tonnage and grade in the global 
marketplace.
In parallel with the expanded drilling and new 
NI 43-101 Mineral Resource Estimate we are 
also conducting various metallurgical testing, 
community development and environmental 
base line studies which are an integral part  
of the development process of advancing an 
asset towards the feasibility stage with a 
view to production.
The definition of the process route is 
fundamental to producing the Preliminary 
Economic Assessment ( PEA') study which 
is expected to be concluded in Q2 2012.
Araguaia, on a number of levels, has 
several critical location advantages. Firstly, 
being based in Brazil, the project is in a 
rapidly-growing economy that is one of the 
more preferable countries in terms of 
favourable and workable mining codes. 
Secondly, our project is located near the 
Caraj s mineral district, a region with an 
established mining industry and significant 
mineral endowment and development. The 
third critical location advantage, and one 
that cannot be emphasised enough, is the 
infrastructure of the region. Excellent road 
and rail networks and economical electrical 
power are readily available - highly 
important for large scale mining projects.
So when considering the growing 
importance of this project it is not only  
the tonnage and grade that has to be 
considered but also the location and 
infrastructure, which adds significant value 
to the asset. Araguaia is a truly quality 
asset for Horizonte and one that we look 
forward to progressing up the 
development curve, accruing significant 
value for shareholders.
Adding value 05
 Horizonte Minerals Plc Annual Report 2011
Of course there are concerns regarding 
metal consumption and prices within an 
uncertain world economic climate. Mining 
and metals are long-term industries. Even 
if metal consumption were to remain flat, 
it is the critical lack of supply of new quality 
projects that will likely maintain metal 
prices at reasonable levels. The global 
stainless steel production is forecast  
to reach new highs in 2012 (Macquarie 
Research, November 2011) with a steady 
increase in following years. This should see 
nickel prices at levels capable of sustaining 
a large nickel project such as Araguaia. 
When economies and markets recover, as 
no doubt they will, Horizonte will be well 
placed with the ownership of a quality 
nickel asset in a stable and well served 
country and in a region with excellent 
infrastructure that enables rapid 
development of the project.
In addition to Araguaia, Horizonte has  
a developing gold project with a major 
mining partner AngloGold. The Falcao gold 
project ( Falcao') has progressed through 
the year and seen the completion of the 
initial 2,587 metre scout drill programme 
that has tested the large defined gold-in-
soil anomaly. Broad zones of low grade/
near surface gold mineralisation were 
defined in a number of drill holes including, 
15.76 metres grading 1.65 g/t Au.
These results led to the drilling of an 
additional five holes to further define the 
style and controls on the gold mineralisation. 
The soil grid was also expanded to cover 
areas where the gold anomaly was identified 
as open. Final results from this recent drilling 
programme are expected in Q1 2012 and  
will be used along with detailed database 
information to determine the 2012 follow  
up drilling programme. In this vein, I am 
delighted to report that AngloGold has 
confirmed a 2012 exploration budget for 
Falcao of US$1.6 million.
In terms of corporate initiatives, another 
major development in 2011 was Horizonte 
listing on the main board of the Toronto 
Stock Exchange (TSX-HZM). This secondary 
listing was designed to create greater 
capital market exposure for the Company 
in North America where nickel laterites  
and Brazil are well understood. One such 
example of this appreciation is underpinned 
by the Onca Puma transaction in 2005 
Adding value
October 2011
Commence metallurgical 
testwork and environmental 
baseline study
November 2011
First drill hole results at Falcao, 
including 15.76 metres grading 
1.65 grammes per tonne
January 2011
Sign royalty agreement 
with Anglo Pacific
March 2011
Maiden Inferred NI 43- 101 
resource at Araguaia 76Mt grading 
1.35% nickel. Start 13,000 m drilling 
campaign at Araguaia 
July 2011
Acquisition of Vila Oito and  
Floresta projects of TSX-listed  
Lara Exploration Ltd for circa 
 1.25 M. Consolidates land position 
at Araguaia. Drilling commences at 
Falcao project
Our Year in Review
which saw mining major Vale acquiring  
the project (87Mt at 1.7% nickel) from Canico 
Resources at a price of US$0.23 per in-situ 
pound of nickel. The Onca Puma project, 
which is now in production, is in close 
proximity to Araguaia, where Horizonte's 
resources are valued at less than US$0.03 
per pound. I believe this again highlights 
the potential upside in value of Araguaia as 
we advance it up the development curve.
We have also further strengthened the 
Board during the period, firstly with the 
appointment of Bill Fisher, who has 
extensive experience with companies on 
the TSX and was on the Board of Aurelian 
when it was sold to Kinross for $1.2 billion. 
I am also delighted to welcome Owen 
Bavinton to our Board as a Non-Executive 
Director. Owen was until recently Group 
Head of Exploration at AngloAmerican and 
has vast experience in developing major 
base metal projects. His familiarity  
with Brazil, having been involved in the 
development of Barro Alto nickel laterite 
project, will be most beneficial to us as  
we progress our flagship Araguaia Project.
We believe Horizonte's investment case is 
clearly evident; with our target resource at 
Araguaia now in hand, we believe we have 
a world-class nickel laterite asset with a 
clear path to feasibility. The results of the 
PEA are expected shortly, which again will 
be a significant milestone for the Company 
in proving the economic potential of the 
Araguaia project. This in turn with 
expected newsflow on our gold portfolio 
throughout 2012, supportive mining 
majors, strong treasury and an excellent 
management team with many leading 
industry figures, places us in a strong 
position to generate value for our 
shareholders during another exciting  
year for the growth of your Company.
Finally, as Chairman and fellow shareholder 
of Horizonte I would like to extend  
my gratitude to thank our excellent 
management team and employees  
led by Jeremy Martin for their continued 
dedication to advancing our Araguaia and 
Falcao projects so successfully. I would also 
like to take this opportunity to thank our 
shareholders for your continued support.
David J. Hall
Chairman
BUSINESS
REVIEW
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
COMPANY
OVERVIEW