 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
2
Chairman's Statement
DIVIDEND
Reflecting the Group's continued progress, the Board
is recommending a final dividend of 5.0p per ordinary
share.This will be paid on 19 August 2005 to those
shareholders on the register at 29 July 2005.
Taken together with the interim dividend, this gives 
a total dividend for the year of 7.0p, an increase of
17% over the dividend of 6.0p declared in the
previous financial year (adjusted for the share split
which took place last year).The Company policy
continues to be to reward our shareholders with a
dividend of approximately 50% of earnings per share
in the absence of unforeseen circumstances.
Statutory profit and earnings per share were reduced
in the year by  332,000 and 0.90p respectively, in
accordance with UK accounting standards, relating to
the amortisation of goodwill in respect of the
acquisition of Electrotren and the Lima assets.
BUSINESS REVIEW
We were encouraged that once again we have
achieved solid growth in the UK and in international
markets, before taking into account the additional
sales of the acquired overseas subsidiaries. For the
future, we are targeting significantly increased activity
and revenues from our international subsidiaries.
Trading in our core UK market has remained robust
during the year. Despite nervousness in the retail
sector, our products have retained their popularity
and sales have remained good.We are conscious
that some retailers are reporting the impact of
wider economic pressures but the hobby-based
characteristics of our products lend resilience in such
times and market feedback remains encouraging.
During the year, we have made good progress in
developing our network of concessions and have
extended our portfolio to 121 outlets. Sales in our
concessions grew by 34% in the year and represented
15% of our total UK sales.
I am delighted once again to report a most encouraging performance for the year.
Sales increased by 15% to  45.0 million, and pre-tax profit before goodwill
amortisation at  7.5 million is 16% above last year's result ( 6.5 million). Basic
earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rose by 21% to 14.78p. Statutory
pre-tax profit was  7.2 million and basic statutory earnings per share were 13.88p.
The Group has made excellent progress in its strategy to create a broader base
to its hobby activities.The recent acquisitions of Electrotren in Spain and the
assets of the Lima Group in Italy offer significant additional potential to enable
us to grow market share worldwide. 3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
In Hornby model railways, the newly tooled A4 
class locomotives and the Gresley coaches - in both
teak and British Rail liveries, set new standards of
performance, detail and authenticity.
The launch of Scalextric Sport Digital (SSD) has
opened a new chapter in slot racing.We believe that
the appeal of racing up to six cars on a single track,
the challenge of overtaking manoeuvres and team
tactics will generate significant new interest in the
hobby.We are honoured that the importance of this
development was recently recognised in the choice
of Scalextric Sport Digital for the prestigious
Best new product design award  by the British Toy
and Hobby Association. In designing SSD we were
also conscious of the need for compatibility with 
our existing track and cars. An additional benefit of
this compatibility is that we have been able to 
enter technology sharing agreements with other
international manufacturers of slot cars. Under these
agreements, the third party manufacturers will be
able to market their cars as compatible with SSD. In
this way we believe the worldwide slot car market
will come to acknowledge SSD as the industry
standard for digital slot car racing.
Exploiting the potential from new licences remains a
very important part of our business.This year we
have secured licences to produce products related
to the new Harry Potter film - Harry Potter and the
Goblet of Fire and the new Batman Begins movie. In
addition we have retained the worldwide exclusive
licence to produce Scalextric cars based on the
highly successful Renault F1 cars and we have also
secured a licence to produce models based on both
classic and current Ferrari F1 and street cars.
OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES
During the year, we completed the acquisition of
certain assets of Lima S.p.A from the Liquidators.
This brings into Hornby ownership the iconic model
railway brands of Lima, Rivarossi, Jouef and Arnold;
and Pocher, the well-known automobile kit brand.
With these assets we have acquired a mould tool
bank of approximately 10,000 tools. Already around
1,000 of these tools have been shipped to China to
commence production of the first ranges, which will
be available prior to Christmas this year.We are
already making further shipments of tools to China
to facilitate further product introductions in 2006.
The Lima operation in Italy has been completely
restructured to match the needs of the ongoing
distribution business.The old premises have been
vacated and a new warehouse and administration
facility is now occupied. Staff numbers have been
aligned with the ongoing needs of the business.We
have every confidence that over the coming years
the combination of the acquired brands, Hornby's
existing design and marketing expertise, and the
enthusiastic co-operation of our principal suppliers
in China, will enable us to grow significantly our
international model railway business.The Lima
subsidiary is also now marketing and distributing our
Scalextric range in Italy. As we have demonstrated in
the UK, the combination of a market leading model
railway brand and a strong slot racing presence
provides an exceptionally powerful trading platform
from which to build sales across all major channels
of distribution.
Our Spanish operation Electrotren has made
excellent progress since its acquisition in March
2004.We have accelerated our plans for improving
both the marketing and sales distribution network. HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
4
Chairman's Statement continued
We are delighted to announce that we have
acquired the rights to use images of Spanish Renault
F1 driver Fernando Alonso on our slot car racing
packaging in Spain.This, and our presence on the
ground through Electrotren has given us an excellent
platform to grow our market share of the largest
per capita slot racing market in the world.The
MotoGP bikes have proved to be a very popular
addition to the product range and we have also
negotiated the image rights for MotoGP rider Sete
Gibernau for use on our MotoGP packaging in
Spain.We believe that these personal endorsements,
together with a renewed marketing and promotional
campaign in Spain, will ensure that we achieve
significant growth in this important slot racing market
this year.
As is well known, trading in the USA has been under
pressure during the past 12 months and results in
Scalextric USA were therefore less encouraging.
Sales were down by 13% at $4.7 million. Profit
before tax of $128,000 in the previous year has
deteriorated and the operation reported a loss
before tax of $(141,000). Whereas all other parts 
of the Hornby Group have benefited from the
sustained weakness of the US dollar, Scalextric USA
has seen its sales and margins eroded. Scalextric
USA acts as distributor for a number of European
slot car manufacturers in addition to Hornby.The
relative strength of the Euro and of Sterling has
forced up prices and depressed sales. However it
should be borne in mind that as a result of margins
generated in Hornby Hobbies Limited on sales
made to Scalextric USA, the US subsidiary remains
an overall net contributor to Group profit. Entering
the new financial year, action has been taken to
reduce overheads and increase sales efforts.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
The lifeblood of our business remains the product
pipeline. During the year under review, we have
made great strides in developing our digital
technology. Scalextric Sport Digital looks set to
become the system of choice for the industry going
forward.The Hornby Digital control system for
model railways is at an advanced stage of
development and will be launched early in 2006.
Following the successful launch of the Live Steam
range in 2003, we will shortly commence deliveries
of the Live Steam Flying Scotsman  set, which 
will provide a further boost to this unique new
product category.
Our development programme for Hornby and
Scalextric models is as comprehensive and exciting
as ever. Electrotren continues to innovate in
European model railways and we are currently
finalising plans for new tooling projects to underpin
the reinvigoration of the acquired Lima brands.
OUTLOOK
We believe the Group is at a pivotal point in its
development. Having revitalised our UK market, we
now have the opportunity to repeat this exercise in
other major world markets.We have been able to
attract first class management for our international
subsidiaries.This will ensure that, whilst the UK
Company continues to provide support where
necessary, there will be no loss of focus on the core
UK market.
Trading in the new financial year has started well,
despite a widely reported slowdown in discretionary
consumer spending.We recognise that we may face
a wider economic slowdown, but we expect to be 5
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
less affected than other sectors as interest amongst
our core customer base of hobbyists remains strong.
In the UK our mix of distribution channels means
that we are not reliant on a few dominant retailers
and we are able to retain our pricing power.
However it should be borne in mind that during the
first half of the new financial year the Lima business
will be incurring overheads, prior to sales revenues
starting to flow in the autumn.Therefore as
anticipated it is likely that Group profit before tax
will be depressed in the half-year to 30 September
2005, although not for the year as a whole.
Finally I would like to take this opportunity to thank
the entire Hornby team for their efforts in delivering
another successful performance during the year. It is
testament to their efforts that we have made
considerable progress on positioning Hornby for the
next important phase of its growth.
Neil Johnson
3 June 2005
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005