 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008
2
Chairman's Statement
Sales in all of our European subsidiaries grew
significantly during the year, resulting in Group sales
ahead 19% to  55.7 million. Pre-tax profit before
amortisation of intangibles and foreign exchange
translation adjustments on intercompany loans
(hereafter referred to as underlying pre-tax profits)
increased to  8.4 million (2007 -  8.1 million) 
(see note 4). Basic earnings per share before the
effect of amortisation of intangibles and foreign
exchange translation adjustments on intercompany
loans (hereafter referred to as underlying basic
earnings per share), both non-cash items, were
15.13p (2007 - 15.58p). Statutory pre-tax profits
were  9.0 million (2007 -  7.7 million). Statutory
basic earnings per share were 16.15p (2007 - 14.64p).
Underlying basic earnings per share and statutory
basic earnings per share were adversely affected 
by a higher tax charge of 32.6% (2007 - 28.0%).
This increased charge arose as a result of the tax
treatment of the Company's employee share
schemes. The Company receives a future tax
deduction based on the market value of shares 
less the option price (if any) at the date of exercise
of the share option by the employee. The fall in 
the Company's share price during the year has
resulted in a decrease in the deferred tax asset 
in relation to the employee share schemes.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending an increase in the 
final dividend to 5.8p per ordinary share. This 
will be paid on 15 August 2008 to shareholders 
on the register at 11 July 2008.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 2.7p,
this gives a total dividend for the year of 8.5p,
an increase of 4.9% over the dividend of 8.1p in
respect of the previous financial year. This marks
the eighth consecutive year of dividend growth.
The Board continues to believe that a progressive
dividend policy is appropriate given the inherently
cash-generative properties of the business.
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
After the strong first half of the financial year,
in which sales compared to the previous year
increased by 37%, sales in the second half increased
by 7% against a much stronger comparative period.
Airfix and Scalextric sales continued to show good
growth, however sales of model railway products 
in the final quarter of the financial year were
constrained to an extent by delays in new product
supplies to our European subsidiaries. Steps have
been taken to ensure that the engineering capacity
available to us is matched more closely to our new
product introduction programme.
I am pleased to report a strong performance for the year.As we reported
at the time of the Interim results, we experienced good demand for our
products in all subsidiaries during the first half of the financial year.
This high demand continued throughout the Christmas period, and I 
am particularly delighted that sales of Airfix and Humbrol, acquired in
November 2006, exceeded our expectations at the time of the acquisition.
This not only gives us confidence that sales of these acquired ranges will
continue to grow, but also confirms our ability to integrate and grow
acquired businesses. 3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008
Underpinning these results the Group has continued
to make excellent progress in establishing itself as a
broadly based global supplier to the Hobby market.
Against a background of increased competition from
electronic toys and games, demand for our products
has continued to grow. We have ensured that our
ranges are at the cutting edge of applicable
technology with the Hornby and Scalextric digital
systems, both of which have proven very popular.
We are also able to position our products at the
forefront of media awareness due partly to powerful
licensing arrangements with partners such as
McLaren and more recently the James Bond
agreement with Eon Productions.
Sales of the Scalextric Sport Digital System (SSD)
showed strong year on year growth as the market
continues to migrate towards our superior digital
racing format.
The Hornby Digital Control System for model
railways gained further market share during the year,
and our digital Virgin Trains Pendolino set generated
the highest revenue amongst our model railway set
range. We expect the market, as with Scalextric,
to continue to migrate to our superior digital
format. In addition, during the year we introduced
the entry level range -  Hornby Railroad'. This range
is designed to encourage younger enthusiasts to
build their Hornby collections at lower price points
than the fully detailed and more expensive main
Hornby range. This range has been well received 
by the younger market and we will be extending 
the scope of  Railroad' over the coming years.
Sales in the principal UK operating companies grew
by 17% to  40.4 million, and underlying profit before
tax increased to  7.7 million (2007 -  7.6 million).
This result includes export sales to third parties of
 5.6 million (2007 -  4.3 million).
INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES
Our subsidiaries in mainland Europe have made
good progress and have increased their market
share. They contributed profits before tax of
 617,000 to the Group result on sales of  12.6
million, compared with  419,000 in the previous
year on sales of  9.7 million. This result would 
have been better if not for the delays in product
introductions already mentioned. However the
infrastructure is now in place to continue to
increase sales and profits in Europe and we 
expect further significant improvements in
performance in the future.
Sales in Hornby America were slightly down 
at $5.4 million (2007 - $5.6 million), producing 
a profit before tax of $32,000 (2007 - $82,000).
Upon translation into Sterling, due to the continuing
weakness in the US dollar, sales were  2.7 million
(2007 -  2.8 million) with profit before tax of
 16,000 (2007 -  42,000). However, Hornby
Hobbies in the UK benefits from a gross margin
contribution of  450,000 generated on sales 
made to Hornby America, which has the effect 
of increasing significantly the overall contribution 
to Group profit of our US operation.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Our product development programme continues 
to be a key driver of our business and we have
increased further our resources in this area, to cope
with the additional demands of our subsidiaries and
the increase in product categories. We have also
increased our product development resources to
reduce our design dependence on external sources.
In so doing we expect to gain a greater degree 
of control over the timing of new product
introductions, particularly for our European markets. HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008
4
Chairman's Statement 
continued
ACQUISITION OF CORGI
On 30 April 2008, we acquired the principal 
assets of the Corgi die cast business from Corgi Inc.
Following the sale of these assets, Corgi Inc. will
change its name and has no continuing rights in the
name Corgi. We have long recognised Corgi as a
logical fit with our existing business. Synergies in
product development, licensing, sourcing, operations,
distribution and marketing are expected to result in
the Corgi assets becoming a significant contributor
to Group profit over the coming years. We are
already making good progress with the integration
programme and we are confident that we will
reinvigorate the Corgi business.
BOARD CHANGES
During the year there have been a number of
significant developments at Group Board level.
Andrew Morris has joined us as Group Finance
Director and we welcome his input and experience.
At the same time John Stansfield has stepped down
from the Board but his enormous depth of
experience remains available to us as he continues 
in his role as Company Secretary and as Finance
Director of Hornby Hobbies Limited.
At non-executive level we welcome Nigel Carrington
and Mark Rolfe to the Board. They both bring
excellent and relevant experience to our activities.
Nick Cosh has decided to leave the Board after nine
years' outstanding service, contributing to strategic
development and also Chairing the Audit Committee.
I should like to express my thanks to Nick on behalf
of the Board, and our best wishes for the future.
OUTLOOK
Our strategy of building a broadly based model 
and hobby group with strong defensive attributes
has been further strengthened by the successful 
and profitable integration of the Airfix and Humbrol
business. The acquisition of the Corgi assets now
allows us to take further advantage of our
distribution network and product development skills.
Notwithstanding the general economic downturn 
in many of the markets in which we operate,
we are anticipating another year of good progress.
We will continue to build sales of the Humbrol 
and Airfix brands and we expect demand for our
model railway and slot-racing brands to continue 
to increase. We now also have the added
opportunity to restore sales of Corgi to their
historically high levels. The outlook across the
Group, both geographically and by product sector 
is positive, and we look forward with confidence.
Finally I should like to thank our Chief Executive
Frank Martin and through him all our staff, for their
continuing dedication to growing the business,
improving profitability and ensuring a strong future.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
12 June 2008