 HUNTER RESOURCES PLC 
Report of the Executive Chairman 
Page 4 of 31 
 
Report	  of	  the	  Executive	  Chairman 	  
Dear	  Shareholder ,	  
	  
I	   am	  pleased	  to	   announce	  the	  results	  of	   the	   Hunter	  Resources	  Plc	   (formerly	   GEM	  BioFuels	  Plc )	  (  Hunter'	  or	  the	    Company')	   group	  (the	    Group')	   for	  
the	  year	  ended	  31	  December	  2012 .	   	  
	  
The	   Group's	  activities	  have	  undergone	  significant	  change	  in	  the	  period 	  -	  activities	  related	  to	  the	   management	  of	   Jatropha	   plantations	  to	  produce	  
oil	  based	  fruit,	  principally	  for	  the	  production	  of	   biodiesel	  (the	   Jatropha	  Operations') ,	  have	  ended	  and	  the	  Group	  is	  now	   focused	  on	  the	  natural	  
resources	  and	  mining	  sector.	  The	  change	  was	  approved	  at	  the	  Company's	  Annual	  General	  Meeting	  held	  on	  28	  December	  2012	   (the	    2012	  AGM)	  
at	  which	   holders	  of	  the	  Ordi nary	  Shares	  in	  the	  Company	  (  Shareholders')	  approved	  the 	  Company's	  new	  Investing	  Policy	  (as	  more	  fully	  described	  
in	  the	  section	  of	  the	  Directors' 	  R eport	  entitled	   Principal	  activities'). 	  
	  
The	  cessation	  of	  the	  Jatropha	   Operations,	  which	  were	  abandoned	  from	   April	  2012,	  reflects	  an	  assessment	  completed	  during	  the	  early	  part	  of	  
2012	  into	  the	  commercial	  viability	  of	  th ose	  operations.	   As	  you	  are	  aware,	   the	  Group's	  plantations	  performed	  poorly	   during	  2011	  and	  the	  early	  
part	  of	  2012 .	  This	  lack	  of	  progress	  led	  the	  B oard	  to	  complete	  a	  detailed	  internal	  review	  of	  the	  plantation	  operations	   which	  showed	  that	   the	  
plantation	  activities	  were	  not	  likely	  to	  become	  commercially	  viable	  within	  a	  reasonable	  timeframe ,	  mainly	  due	  to	  a	  lack	  of	  sufficient	  financial	  
resources.	  Furthe r	  examination	  through	  external	  agronomic	  consultants	  confirmed	  that	  the	  success	  levels	  were	  too	  low	  to	  make	  a	  commercially	  
viable	   business	   from	   the	   Group's	   existing	   plantations.	   Other	   recent	   third -  party	   research	   on	   Jatropha	   further	   suggested	   that	   it	   requir es	  
significantly	  more	  agronomic	  care	  and	  maintenance	  than	  originally	  thought	  as	  well	  has	  higher	  rainfall	  and	  the	  addition	  of	  fertilizers.	  	  The	  same	  
report	  suggested	  that	  successful	  commercial	  scale	  exploitation	  of	  Jatropha	  would	  not	  be	  expected	  before	  2020 	  and	  would	  require	  significant	  
improvement	  on	  the	  techniques	  employed	  by	  the	  Group	  and	  the	  breeding	  stock. 	   	  
	  
The	  external	  consultants	  further	  examined	  other	  plantation	  crop	  opportunities	  both	  utilising	  the	   Group's	  land	  bank	  and	  in	  other	  areas	  within	  the	  
country.	  	  Whilst	  several	  such	  opportunities	  appeared	  to	  have	  great	  potential	  it	  was	  deemed	  too	  difficult	  to	  capitalise	  on	  them	  without	  major	  new	  
funding	  for	  this	  purpose.	  	  Over	  and	  above	  this,	  the	  Board	  examined	  s everal	  other	  plantation	  crop	  projects	  in	  other	  countries	  and	  spent	  a	  
considerable	  amount	  of	  time	  investigating	  these.	  However,	  it	  proved	  too	  difficult	  to	  bring	  any	  such	  project	  within	  the	   Group's	  original	  plantation	  
focus	  to	  fruition	  for	  a	  number	  of	  reason s.	  	   	  
	  
Following	  this	  detailed	  assessment,	  the	  Board	  concluded	   that	  a	  new	  strategy	  should	   be	  explored	  which	  could	  provide	  S hareholders	  with	  some	  
return	  going	  forward	  and	  it	  was	  decided	  that	  this	  could	  be	  achieved	  through	  the	  mining	  and	  resources	  sector.	  	  Accordingly,	   the	  Company's	  new	  
Investing	  Policy	  and	  change	  of	  name	  to	  reflect	  the	  new	  focus	  of	  the	  Group 	  were	  proposed	  and	  a pproved	  at	   the	  2012	  AGM.	  In	  addition	  to	  this	  
clear	  investing	  mandate,	   the	  reorganisation	  of	  the	  Company's	  capital	  structure	  was	  further	  approved	   at	  the	  AGM	   to	  reduce	  the	  par	  value	  of	   the	  
Company's	  ordinary	  shares	  (  Ordinary	  Shares ')	  from	   0.01	  per	  ordinary 	  share	  to	   0.001	  and	  create	  a	  new	  class	  of	  deferred	  shares,	  such	  
reorganisation	  being	  necessary	  to	  permit	  the	  Company	  to	  issue	  new	  Ordinary	  Shares	  for	  cash	  which	  was	  otherwise	  not	  possible	  because	  the	  
Company's	  share	  price	  on	  AIM	  had	  fallen	  below	  the	  par	  v alue	  of	  its	  Ordinary	  Shares.	  Shareholder s	  further	   provided	  the	   Board	  with	  certain	  
allotment	  authorities ,	  free	  from	  pre -  emption	  rights,	  to	  issue	   new	  Ordinary	  Shares 	  (refer	  to	  note	   18.2.1	  to	  the	  financial	  statements	  for	  full	  detai ls	  
of	   the	   allotment	   authorities) ,	   of	   which	   350,000,000	   were	   allocated	   for	   the	   issue	   of	   new	   Ordinary	   Shares	   under	   a	   private	   subscription.	  
284,131,944	  Ordinary	  Shares	  were	  subsequently	  allotted	  under	  this	  authority	  in	  January	  2013	  raising	   284,132	  (pre	  issue 	  expenses).	  A	  further	  
 25,868	   (pre	  issue	  expenses) 	  was	  raised	  at	  the	  same	  time	  under	  a	  convertible	  loan	  note,	  taking	  the	  total	  raised	  in	  January	  2013	  to	   310,000 	  (pre	  
issue	  expenses) .	  These	   funds	  have	  provided	   the	  initial	  working	  capital	   necessary	  for	  the	   Company	  to	   continue	  in	  operation	  and	  to	   commence	  
implementing	  the	  Investing	  Policy.	   	  
	  
The	  change	  in	  the	  activities	  of	  the	  Group	  was 	  accompanied	  by	  changes	  to	  the	  b oard	  of	  Directors	  (the	   Board') .	  O n	  2 8	  March	   2012	  Paul	  Benetti	  
resigned	  as	  Chief	  Executive	  Officer,	   and	  I	  became	   Executive	  Chairman	  to	  carry	  out	  the	  full	  review	  of	  the	  business	  referred	  to	  above	  and	  attract	  
new	  investors .	  	   At	  the	   2012	  AGM,	  M alcolm	  Williams	  resigned	  as	  Non -  Executive	  Director	  and	  John	  Molyneux	  and	  Da vid	  Paull	  were 	  appointed	  as	  
Non-  Executive	   Directors,	  bringing	  with	  them	  a 	  wide	  a nd	  deep	  experience	  in	  the	   mining	  sector. 	  	   	  
	  
The	  Group's	  loss	   for	  the	  year	   was	    417,470	  (2011:	    2,294,886),	  or	  a	  loss	  per	  ordinary	  share	  of	  0. 45p	  (2011	  (as	  restated	  (note 	  4:	  loss	  of	  4. 28p).	  
The	  reduction	  in	  the	  loss	  for	  the	  current	  period	  reflects	  the	  significantly	  reduced	  scope	  of	  operations	  following	  the	  abandonment	  of	  the	  
plantation	  operations	  from	  April	  2012,	  and	  the	  significant	  impairments	  recorded	  during	  2011	  against	  t he	  Group's	  biological	  assets	  and	  goodwill.	  
The	  results	  of	  the	   Jatropha	  O peration	  for	  both	  periods	  presented	  are	  reported	  within	  discontinued	  operations	  in	  the	  Consolidated	  Statement	  of	  
Profit	  or	  Loss	  and	  Other	   Comprehensive	  Income,	  with	  the	  prior	  year	  amou nts	  represented	  as	  required	  by	  IFRS.	  As	  at	  the	  date	  of	  this	  report,	  the	  
Company	  has	  cash	  balances	  of	  approximately	    96,000	  which	   are	  sufficient	  for	  the	  immediate	  requirements	  of	  the	   Company,	  but	  will	  be	  
insufficient	  to	  allow	  the	  Company	  to	  fully	  implement	   its	  Investing	  Policy.	  Accordingly 	  the	  Group	  will	  require	  additional	  funding	  to	  develop	  its	  
business.	  Further	  details	  on	  the	  going	  concern	  status	  of	  the	  Company	  and	  Group	  are	  provided	  in	  note	   3.2	  to	  the	  financial	  statements. 	  
	  
Having	  adopted	   the	  new	  I nvesting	  Policy	  focussed	  on	   the	  natural	  resources	  and	  mining	  sector ,	  the	   Board	  is	  confident	  of	  moving	  forward	  on	  a	  
project	  in	  the	  relatively	  near	  future .	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
Simon	  D	  Hunt 	   	  
Executive	  Chairman 	   	  
Date:	  	  	  	   8	   August	   2013	   	  
	  