 Introduction
I am delighted to present i-design's fourth set of annual
results as an AIM quoted company. 
After a challenging first half, as we previously described, 
we closed the financial year having made significant
progress in the ongoing development of the business. 
Most significantly, in May, we signed our first contract for
atmAd in the USA, with Cardtronics, Inc. (Cardtronics ),
the world's largest non-bank owner of ATMs, operating
machines throughout the United States, the UK and
Mexico. In June, we secured our first agreement in 
South America, with a leading bank in Ecuador. During 
the second half, we also extended our existing contracts
with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (covering all ATMs 
at T esco UK stores) and Eurobank EFG in Greece. 
These new licence agreements for atmAd helped to deliver
a significantly improved second half performance, with
second half revenues some 38% higher than the first half,
and our results were better than market forecasts, as 
we indicated in our trading update in October. I am also
pleased to report that this better than expected result was
aided by an improvement in media sales revenues and the
positive trend seen here is continuing in this financial year. 
After a testing first half, we ended the financial year 
having substantially expanded our estate of ATMs and 
self-service machines for which we hold exclusive third
party advertising rights, with the total number of machines
moving to 9,400, from 5,600 devices at the start of the
financial year. This position strengthened following the
year-end, when at the end of October, we signed a
significant contract with YourCash, the largest independent
provider of ATM solutions in Europe, with ATMs in both the
UK and Netherlands. The contract covers an initial 500 
of YourCash's 6,600 strong ATM estate and also gives 
i-design a presence in the Netherlands. The agreement
with YourCash takes our third party advertising estate to
9,900 ATMs and self-service machines. Approximately
three-quarters of these are located in the UK, with 2,200 in
the USA and 200 in Continental Europe. Our total licensed
ATM estate, including machines where ATM owners 
are using our solution only to run their own marketing
initiatives, now stands at approximately 17,000 ATMs.
Results
T otal revenue for the year ended 30 September 2010 
was  2.17 million, down from  2.37 million in 2009 having
been impacted by the challenging trading conditions in 
the first half. However, second half revenues of  1.26
million showed a 38% improvement on the first half and 
a 27% improvement on the same period last year. As a
result of the lower revenue, gross profit was lower at
 435,000 (2009:  466,000). 
We continued to focus on tight cost controls in the year
and made savings resulting in lower administrative costs
compared to last year. As a consequence, despite the
reduction in sales, the operating loss position improved
year on year, showing a reduction of 15% to  966,000
(2009: operating loss of  1,143,000). The loss before tax
decreased by 13% to  962,000 (2009: loss before tax of
 1,112,000) and delivered a better than forecast position,
as we previously reported. After R&D tax credits of
 240,000 (2009:  nil), the loss after tax decreased to
 723,000 (2009: loss after tax of  1,112,000), which
represents a 35% improvement year on year. The basic
loss per share decreased by 38% to  0.05 (2009: loss 
per share of  0.08). 
The net cash outflow from operating activities was
 1,061,000 (2009: outflow of  402,000), with other taxation
receipts and investing and financing inflows of  127,000
(2009:  500,000) resulting in a cash outflow of  934,000 
in the year (2009: inflow of  98,000). Investing activities in
2009 included the encashment of bonds totalling  499,000. 
Outstanding borrowings at 30 September 2010 have
reduced to  12,500 (2009:  27,500) and the Group's 
net cash and cash equivalents position at the year-end 
was  734,000 (2009:  1,653,000). 
Dividend
As previously indicated, the Directors intend to devote 
the Company's cash resources to growing its operations.
However, we will reconsider the Company's dividend policy
as and when the Company is in a position to pay a dividend.
Business progress
The first half of the year saw a continuation of the
challenging market conditions experienced in 2009, with
advertising budgets constrained. However, as we moved
Chairman's statement 
4 through the second half, we saw a noticeable improvement
in conditions and this trend looks firm to date. We also 
re-focused our media sales activities and restructured the
media sales team which has also helped us to build media
sales revenues as we moved through the second half.
Despite the difficult economic backdrop, we have secured
a number of new advertisers, including HTC, Sony
Ericsson, Visa, Muller, Colgate and Cadbury, and we
continue to benefit from healthy levels of repeat bookings
from existing customers, including Coca-Cola, Beiersdorf,
British Airways, Orange and Argos. Following the period
end, we have also re-signed Pizza Hut, the largest pizza
restaurant chain both in the UK and globally, on a further
12 month contract. 
The Group has successfully expanded the reach of its 
ATM estate over the year, securing new relationships 
and strengthening existing relationships with banking
customers. Most notably, in May 2010, the Group signed its
first ATM estate owner in the USA, securing an agreement
with Cardtronics, Inc. for the implementation of atmAd. The
agreement covers 3,000 of Cardtronics' ATM estate, which
globally totals 33,700 ATMs and includes machines in the
UK and Mexico. Of the 3,000 ATMs covered in our contract,
2,200 are located in the USA and 800 in the UK. In June,
we also signed our first contract in South America to
deploy atmAd on approximately 500 ATMs belonging to 
a major bank in Ecuador. The contract was secured via our
South American channel partner and we continue to work
with our channel partners as we seek to enlarge the scale
of our ATM estate. In September, we extended our existing
contracts with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, relating to
all ATMs at T esco UK stores, and also with Eurobank EFG
in Greece (via our Greek channel partner), adding extra
licences for atmAd to run internal marketing campaigns 
on Eurobank's ATM estate.
By the end of the financial year, i-design had secured a
total of 9,400 ATMs available for third party advertising, 
with three-quarters of these in the UK and the remainder in
the USA. This compared to 5,600 at the start of the financial
year, an increase of more than 68%. Following the year-
end, in October, we continued to build on our success with
the signing of Europe's largest independent provider of
ATM solutions, YourCash Limited (YourCash ). YourCash
has a total of 6,600 ATMs in the UK and the Netherlands.
The contract initially covers 500  free to use' ATMs, of which
300 are in the UK and 200 are in the Netherlands, taking 
i-design into a new European territory. 
Once implementation across the recently signed ATMs is
complete, i-design will have 9,900 ATMs which it can offer
for third party advertising. This represents an unparalleled
ability for advertisers to run advertising campaigns across
multiple ATM networks in highly attractive, high footfall
locations, including retail sites, supermarkets and transport
stations. Additionally, we are further developing our
marketing offering to banks who wish to maximise the
benefits of their ATM estates as a medium through 
which to communicate with their own customers. 
T eam effort 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our 
staff for their hard work and commitment during the year.
We are also grateful for the continued support of our
customers and shareholders.
Prospects
I am pleased to report that the positive momentum we 
have seen develop over the course of the second half of
the financial year has continued into the new financial year,
both in terms of new licence sales for atmAd and of media
sales. The contracts we have secured over the year to 
date increase our ATM estate substantially, including the
number of machines available for third party advertising.
Significantly, our new agreements also take us into new
territories, including the USA and South America. These
new territories offer attractive growth opportunities in
addition to the expansion potential which we still see in 
the UK. We continue to actively engage in discussions with
potential new ATM network customers and are confident
that there is scope for further expansion of our ATM estate,
both in the UK and overseas. 
With our unrivalled ability to enable ATM owners to 
unlock the marketing potential of their networks, both to
communicate more closely with their own customers and
to generate new revenues through third party advertising,
we remain positive about the Group's growth prospects.
James Faulds
Chairman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5  Engaging consumers 
through regional targeting
Peugeot Motors
RCZ launch
For their launch of the new RCZ Sports Coupe,
Peugeot Motors chose atmAd as the ideal platform
for engaging consumers in specific locations. 
The launch activity for their new sports coupe
included demonstration weekends at key
dealerships around the country, so to create
awareness of the events to local audiences
Peugeot used location targeted atmAd.
Each campaign featured a dealer specific in-
transaction video, conveying the location of the
nearest Peugeot dealership where the RCZ launch
activity was taking place and the branded atmAd
receipt also featured the dealership address.
Campaign highlights:
Location-specific
on-screen message
Branded directional 
receipts
Uplift in dealership visits