  
2 - Imaginatik plc - Annual report and accounts - 2011 
Executive Chairman's Statement 
 
 
 
Operational Review 
 
As highlighted in the Interim Results announcement released in December 2010, considerable effort has continued 
to be invested in three key areas. These were the rebuilding of our sales capability, the upgrading of our technology 
platform and the clarification of our growth strategy and strategic direction. 
 
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress in each of these three areas. While the results for the year 
are disappointing, the trends underlying the headline figures are moving in the right direction, namely; 
 
  We signed 7 new customers in the second half, compared to 2 in the first (2010, 4 in the second half, 6 in 
the first);  
  All bar one customer reaching the end of their contracts since the restructuring in summer 2010 have re-
signed with us, demonstrating the value they place on the services we provide; and 
  At the year end we had more pilots underway, 6 versus 4 at the same point last year. 
 
The reasons for the reduction in revenues compared to the prior year are three-fold. First, the loss of a significant 
number of customers in the preceding year meant we had a lower level of renewals available to us. We are confident 
that we now have a more solid customer base, having spent time this year visiting and working with every customer 
to maximise their returns from the use of our software.  
 
Second, we did not secure as many new customers overall as we did in the previous year as a result of the time 
spent rebuilding and reeducating the sales team. It is important to note that we did see an increased level of new 
client wins in the second half of the year, securing contracts worth over  500,000 in the final few months of the year. 
The majority of these revenues will be recognised in the next financial year. 
 
The third reason was the extent of the multi-year contracts signed in the previous financial year providing a 
substantial revenue contribution in the year ended 31 March 2010, but a markedly lower contribution in the year 
ended 31 March 2011. A number of these contracts are due for renewal in the coming financial year. 
 
Our enterprise innovation platform and consultancy services continue to be selected by some of the world's most 
successful businesses and organisations, including the World Bank, and the Government Services Agency of the 
United States Government. We believe this is a clear validation of the quality of our offering.  Our continuing goal is 
to help make the best companies even better by helping them develop a deep competency in innovation. In order to 
achieve that goal, we are continuing to fill out our offering of products and services so that we can be a complete 
innovation partner to our clients. We believe we have made a great deal of progress towards that goal in the past 
year. 
 
This steadying of the customer base and the signing of several new clients on annual contracts towards the end of 
the year, means we have now entered the new financial year with a higher level of revenue visibility than the 
previous year, being revenue which is either under contract for the year, or available to us via renewal with existing 
customers. We entered the new financial year with visibility of over  2.6m (2010:  2.3m), underpinning a substantial 
part of our fixed overheads.  
 
Since the year end, we have secured two additional customers, Cotton Incorporated, the research and promotions 
company for US cotton growers, on a multi-year contract, and Cementos Argos, one of the largest cement 
manufacturers in Latin America, further adding to our client base and recurring revenues.  
 
Financial Review 
 
Total revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 decreased by 37% to  2.85 million (FY 2010:  4.55 million). During 
the year, 21% of revenue was generated from up-selling our software and services into existing customers, 29% 
from selling into new clients, and 50% from recurring business (FY 2010: 20:29:51%). We added 9 new customers 
during the year (FY 2010: 10). 
 
The US continues to be our core market and the percentage of revenues received from the region grew in the period 
to 96% (FY 2010: 90%) with the remaining 4% made up from the Rest of the World (FY 2010: 10%). 
 
We took steps during the year to reduce overheads, largely through lower head count and reduced spend on 
marketing activities deemed to be unnecessary in a period where many leads are now generated through web 
activity and referrals. The overheads for the year were inflated due to approximately  350,000 of one-off legal costs  
 
 
 
Executive Chairman's Statement (continued)    
3 - Imaginatik plc - Annual report and accounts - 2011 
 
 
incurred as a result of litigation against the former CEO. This litigation has resulted in a successful result for the 
Company, obtaining judgment in each of its actions. A significant portion of this cost is expected to be recovered in 
due course although in order to be prudent this has not been recognised in the financial statements. 
 
Total costs have been reduced by 12% in the year from  5.979 million to  5.257 million this year.  The Company 
continues to seek means to reduce costs post year-end. 
 
Operating losses after share option costs widened to  2.41 million (FY 2010:  1.43 million) primarily as a function of 
the drop in revenues as referred to above.  
 
We continued to invest in our software platform in the year, upgrading and adding new functionality to improve our 
competitiveness. In the year we invested  0.57 million (FY2010:  0.42 million) all of which has been prudently 
written off as incurred but the software remains the Company's primary asset. 
 
On 6 September 2010 the Company announced that it had raised approximately  0.8 million (gross) through a 
placing of 53,333,332 new ordinary shares of 0.0625p each (Ordinary Shares ) with existing institutional and other 
investors at a price of 1.5 pence per share.  
 
The Company is in the final stages of securing further financing for the business, and expects to make a market 
announcement on this very shortly. The financing being raised is expected to be sufficient to provide an appropriate 
level of working capital for the business and to facilitate further growth, including the addition of further sales and 
consulting capacity in the US.   
 
Strategy Implementation 
 
Innovation-as-a-Service 
 
We have been pleased with the traction we have gained following the launch of our  Innovation-as-a-Service' 
strategy towards the end of the first half of the year which differentiates us from the competition and ensures that our 
portfolio of clients are assured of success in their innovation programmes. There is a clear demand in the market 
place for assisted innovation, with Imaginatik providing strategy consultancy and program management alongside 
our enterprise technology platform. We believe our many years' experience in this area means we are uniquely 
positioned to deliver this type of service. Clients to whom we now provide Innovation-as-a-Service include Philip 
Morris, Argo Insurance, Pfizer, Novartis, Cementos Argos and the World Bank.  
 
Innovation Central 
 
In the past year, we have cemented our claim to offer a market-leading product platform.  
 
In April 2011, after the year end, we launched Innovation Central, an expanded version of Idea Central. Innovation 
Central supports the entire lifecycle of innovation management, from Discovery, through Ideation and Decisions, 
through the Results - a claim only Imaginatik can make. Innovation Central includes many market leading 
improvements, including: 
 
  The launch of Discovery Suite, a new offering to serve the Discovery phase of innovation, a first in our 
market; 
  The first version of Portfolio Monitor, designed for the Results phase following Innovation Central's 
traditional focus on Ideation; 
  Social features at the vanguard of Ideation, including community monitoring (Look Who's Talking); and idea 
and participant profiling of innovation styles (Kudos); and related-idea exploration (Ideas Like This); and 
  Powerful new decision and reviewing tools, including a group prioritsation tool (Bubble Up) and a statistically 
rich pairwise evaluator's tool (Head-to-Head Reviews). 
 
These developments represent a significant step forward in our ability to support innovation at major organisations.  
 
We are committed to continuing product innovation and believe that it is a vital ingredient for success in this growth 
market.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Chairman's Statement (continued)   
4 - Imaginatik plc - Annual report and accounts - 2011 
 
 
Outlook 
 
The outlook for the business is stronger now than it has been for the last 18 months. The final quarter of the year 
saw the signing of several significant contracts which gives us confidence in our strategy and adds to our increasing 
levels of revenue visibility for this coming year. We have also increased the number of pilots signed in the second 
half, which we expect to see converted into annual licence deals during the next financial year.  
 
Importantly, we believe our sales team now has the correct structure, the team is largely complete and well trained 
and has the tools with which to capitalise on the growing number of opportunities in our market. 
 
Imaginatik continues to be regarded as one of the leaders in the high growth innovation market. This strong 
reputation, outstanding customer list and strengthening fundamentals mean we view the future with increased 
confidence. 
 
 
 
 
Matt Cooper 
Executive Chairman 
2 August 2011 