 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September 2009
I am pleased to announce the results for imJack plc
(previously Amteus plc) for the year ended 
30 September 2009.
Results
Revenue in the year ended 30 September 2009
amounted to  257,414 (2008:  198,282). The loss
before taxation was  3,298,169 (2008:  3,539,038) and
after taxation was  2,989,022 (2008:  3,539,038).
Business
The imJack product consists of a private platform for
schools to communicate and collaborate in a secure,
invitation only  environment. The product enables
students to communicate by instant messaging, video
conferencing and real-time collaboration by way of
secure file transfer or whiteboard. This technology
means that homework can be received directly by
children to their computer and that children, teachers
and parents can all communicate in a secure
environment. One of the major benefits of the system is
the ability for careers advice to be accessed from major
employers using the system in a totally secure
environment. It also introduces students to the world of
e-business and social networking in a responsible and
secure manner.
The Company has been working with the Specialist
Schools and Academies Trust (SSAT) for some two
years in order to enable participating schools to derive
all the above benefits through using the system. 
The year under review was one of development both of
the product and the ways by which the product could
find routes to market in order to start achieving revenue
streams. This has been a difficult process and involved
two significant changes of management. 
Inevitably this long period of product and strategic
development has been difficult and costly. The
Company therefore carried out share placings to raise
 710,000 and  1.99m (net of issue costs) in December
2008 and June 2009 respectively. This however did not
prove sufficient to take the Company through to the
point of achieving significant revenues. 
Post Year End
In the Autumn of 2009 the Company continued to
explore ways both to get the product to market and to
raise further funds. Dialogue continued with the SSAT
which resulted in the signing of a Memorandum Of
Understanding (MOU) in May 2010 to start to install the
product in schools under a government funded peers
programme which enables schools who take the
product to receive matched funding of up to  25,000
from the government.
On 20 May 2010 the Company circulated to all
shareholders the detail of this programme along with a
proposal to raise  0.9m (net of issue costs) from certain
placees to provide funding for the business plan. This
placing of ordinary shares successfully completed
today. This document which describes in detail these
proposals is now available on the company website:
http://www.imjack.com. 
On 20 May 2010 the Company appointed Daniel
Stewart as Nominated Advisor in place of Strand
Hanson.
Board and Management
During the past year we appointed Len Sanderson and
Richard Addis to the Board in January 2009 and
Anthony Lilley in October 2009. These directors have
all since left the Board. On 20 May 2010 we appointed
Jeffrey Morris, the founder and a major shareholder in
the business to the position of interim CEO. At the same
time David Lynde resigned from the Board but
continues as Company Secretary. The directors also
plan to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director in
the near future. 
Outlook
The directors believe that with the proposed fund
raising and the innate strength of its product that it now
has the opportunity to start to achieve revenues from
the schools as described in the circular dated 20 May
2010. Since the initial launch the Company has secured
7 orders.
Going Concern
The Directors acknowledge that in light of recent credit
market conditions, additional diligence on the part of
preparers of accounts and members of audit committees
is required and, in particular, the need for clarity as to
the basis on which judgements have been exercised.
In June 2009, the group raised  1.99m (net of issue
costs) through the issue of ordinary shares, which were
admitted to trading on AIM on 8 June 2009. The
proceeds of the placing allowed the group to settle
certain trade creditors and provided additional working
capital. 
A further placing of ordinary shares was completed
during June 2010 when the parent company raised
 0.9m (net of issue costs) which is forecast to provide
working capital to pay off CVA creditors, and to enable
the company to trade until revenues are generated from
the sale of the imJack product. This is dependent upon
the Company achieving its forecasts. In addition, the
Directors have capitalised loans owing to them from the
company of  1,066,000. 
imJack plc
(formerly Amteus plc)
2 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
continued
imJack Secure Communications Limited, the Company's
trading subsidiary had significant liabilities which were
greater than its assets and is technically insolvent and
has entered into a CVA. The Directors believe that the
CVA is in the best interests of the Shareholders and
creditors. A meeting of the imJack Secure
Communications Limited's creditors was held on 
27 May 2010 and approval was granted to extinguish
debts of  653,000 for  100,000, which will be divided
between creditors who make a claim within three
months of the date of the CVA being approved.
The Company has secured approval from the
Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF)
for all schools applying for redesignation through the
Specialist Schools and Academies Trust (SSAT) to be
offered the imJack platform. Each redesignating school
taking up this platform will be entitled to a  15,000
credit towards  25,000 of matched funding from the
DCSF . The remaining  10,000 required from the school
can be raised through the use of various modules on
the imJack platform such as careers' advice or
mentoring. Through an agreement with JD Connect,
the Company have agreed a memorandum of
understanding with SSAT to start promoting this
programme as soon as possible. The Directors believe
there are 1,000 schools applying for redesignation
through the SSAT in 2010.
The participating schools installing the imJack platform
are being offered service level agreements which
include storage, support and maintenance thus creating
recurring revenues for the Company. The Company is
anticipating that revenues from this programme will
start during the current schools' summer term. In
addition the Company has installed the platform in 436
schools free of charge and has started discussions with
those schools with a view to offering them a three year
service agreement in due course. The Directors are
confident that after a number of false starts that the
Company has now reached a point where it has visibility
of revenues and a clear understanding of the
opportunities available to it.
On 17 May 2010 the Company has agreed with Jeffrey
Morris that he will exchange up to  200,000 of loans
made by him to the company into convertible
unsecured loan stock to provide longer term capital for
the company. The convertible loan stock is convertible
at 1.5p into 13,333,333 ordinary shares of the
Company. Under the terms of the convertible loan
stock, repayment in cash will only be made prior to the
first anniversary of 17 May 2010 in the event that the
Board considers the Company to have sufficient
working capital. 
In addition, Jeffrey Morris has agreed to provide up to
an additional  500,000 drawdown facility for the
purposes of working capital if required by the Company
in the future. The Company will be required to give one
month's notice of its intention to drawdown sums under
the facility. Interest will be charged on any sums drawn
down on the facility at the Bank of England base rate
plus 3 per cent. 
The Directors have prepared a forecast to December
2011, which assumes certain service level agreement
revenue being achieved. In preparing the forecasts the
Directors have taken into account the dialogue to date
and the memorandum of understanding with the SSAT
in securing the service level agreement revenues and
assumed the continuing availability of matched funding
for schools from the government. 
The directors have concluded that there are the
following material uncertainties being:
l Securing the forecast service level agreement
revenues from the participating schools and from
the schools where the product is already installed
and the continuing availability of matched funding
for schools from the government; and
l The commitment to provide financial support of up
to  500,000, by Jeffrey Morris, if required by the
company. 
The existence of these material uncertainties may cast
significant doubt on the entity's ability to continue as a
going concern and, therefore, that it may be unable to
realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the
normal course of business.
Nevertheless, having successfully completed the
placing today and after making enquiries and
considering the uncertainties described above, the
Directors have concluded that the going concern basis
is appropriate and that the company will continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Michael D Abrahams CBE DL
Chairman
7 June 2010
imJack plc
(formerly Amteus plc)
3