 Immersion Technologies International Plc 
 
Annual report and financial statements for the period ended 30 June 2007 
 
 
 
 4
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
The Company has experienced significant change in the past few months as a result of the reverse takeover by Immersion 
Technology International Limited (formerly named Immersion Technology International plc), which was completed on 12 April 
2007. The Company, which previously held the name St James's Energy plc, was established to make investments in the 
upstream energy and utilities sector. Having considered a number of opportunities the Board was unable to identify a transaction 
that would meet its investment criteria.   However, the directors saw a number of potential transactions in the technology sector - 
a sector which they believed to have been relatively undervalued since 2001.  The directors considered the acquisition of 
Immersion Technology International Limited as an excellent opportunity to enter the audio technology market where its unique 
patented technologies could be exploited to increase market share, particularly in electro-static loudspeakers. 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS 
 
The Group's loss for the period from 2 March 2006 to 30 June 2007 was  2,627,005, in which it earned license revenue and 
interest income of  17,971 and  38,278 respectively.  The most significant charge against the Group's results is an extraordinary 
share-based payment charge of  992,850 as compensation to the vendors of Whise Acoustics Limited as per the terms of the 
acquisition agreement.  The total share-based payment charge for the period is  1,019,302, after accounting for options issued at 
a value of  26,452.  During the period the Group also spent  188,668 on research and development of the Nakamichi 
Corporation Limited (Nakamichi) product and building a broad product range.  Amortisation of intangible assets, such as 
intellectual property, is  234,941 for the period and the employee and director remuneration costs totalled  567,850. 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS 
 
Since completing the reverse takeover, the Company has focused upon the establishment of its manufacturing facility in Nanjing, 
China, and a sales office in Singapore, where several of the larger Consumer Electronic customers (CEs ) are located. The 
Company has also concentrated on promoting its technology to a number of leading CEs. 
 
Manufacturing Facility - China 
The establishment of the manufacturing facility in China was critical in underpinning the Company's ability to generate product 
and revenue. The facility is located in the Nanjing Jiangning Economic and Technological Development Zone (the Zone ) located 
approximately 200 kilometres south west of Shanghai. It is a relatively new zone that covers approximately 300 square 
kilometres. The Zone is a world class business zone that has attracted major international corporations such as Ford, Mazda, 
Pepsi Cola and Sony Ericsson.  
 
The Company's facility is located in a restricted embargo area designated for export driven companies. The benefit of being 
located in this part of the Zone is that the Company is exempt from the payment of local duties and tariffs on components. This 
has obvious cost benefits, as well as improving overall working capital. 
 
The facility is approximately 4000 square metres and incorporates the production and assembly lines, painting facilities, testing 
and demonstration facilities and offices for management, engineers and industrial designers.  
 
It has taken several months to source the right employees with appropriate skills.  The Company now has the ability to design, 
develop and produce prototypes as well as finished product. The prototypes are created for the sales team for demonstrations to 
CEs. 
 
Technology 
The Company is continuing to improve its technologies in electrostatic (ESL ) and electromagnetic (EML ) loudspeakers.   
Access to new materials and, in particular, new driver design has enabled the Company to push the boundaries of conventional 
box speaker design. For example, the directors believe that an Immersion subwoofer will outperform any competing subwoofer 
given the same volume/size. Although this is a bold statement, the Company has yet to find a competing product to challenge this 
belief. 
 
The Company has also enhanced its ESL technology significantly by improving tolerances in design and construction giving 
higher sound pressure level (volume) than ever achieved before. This makes the Immersion ESL much more sensitive allowing it 
to be driven harder and louder.  
 
The research and development teams in conjunction with it's manufacturing teams have identified new moulding techniques that 
enable products to be produced stronger and lighter than conventional materials. It has also given the Company a significant 
advantage in production enabling it to create unconventional designs not previously possible.  Immersion Technologies International Plc 
 
Annual report and financial statements for the period ended 30 June 2007 
 
 
 
 5
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Nakamichi 
The first design, development and manufacturing contract with Nakamichi has progressed with the first shipment in December 
2007. This follows the signing of a contract with Nakamichi for supply of approximately US$12.1 million of the hybrid speaker, 
which incorporates electro-static and electro-magnetic loudspeaker technology into a single product.  
 
The product premiered, under the name Phoenix, at IFA in Berlin in September 2006 and at CES in Las Vegas in January 2007 
where it was awarded a 2007 Innovation Design & Engineering Honouree Award - Home Theatre Audio. The Company will build 
upon this and its other accolades when demonstrating and promoting its new prototypes to Consumer Electronics companies. 
 
The Company has developed and is developing additional product lines that will be demonstrated to Nakamichi in order to add to 
the Nakamichi product portfolio for ESL products. 
 
Alpine Electronics (UK) Ltd 
The Company has renewed its licensing contract with Alpine Electronics of UK Ltd (Alpine ) for the use of the VR  technology 
incorporated into several of Europe's most prestigious automobiles.  
 
The Company is also promoting its new Immersion 3 Way System  for automotive audio. This is a new concept in loudspeaker 
design and has the advantage of using less space and power than conventional automotive audio systems, yet giving 
significantly improved performance.  
 
The Company plans to build upon its relationships with Alpine and other automotive audio suppliers to secure new supply 
contracts for finished product incorporating the Immersion 3 Way System . The Company is aiming to vary its relationship with 
Alpine from that of a licensing regime to a development and manufacture relationship now that the Company has manufacturing 
facilities in Nanjing. 
  
New Prototypes 
The Company has developed several new prototypes that clearly demonstrate the advantages of its technologies: 
 
ESL & Woofer LCD TV 
The Group has developed its first ESL & Woofer LCD TV that produces exceptional audio performance. The LCD TV 
incorporates both electrostatic and a conventional cone woofer technology that enables a frequency response as low as 60Hz - a 
world first in a flat screen TV. In order to achieve this, the woofer had to be constructed in a balanced configuration to remove 
vibration. As a result, the TV can be placed securely on a wall without damaging internal components.  
 
This prototype demonstrates the Company's ability to produce ESL panels in small thin designs whilst maintaining both sound 
pressure level (i.e. volume) and sound quality.  It has the potential to be highly attractive to CE's, as it provides a new means of 
differentiating their products.  
 
Home Theatre Systems 
The Company has developed several variations of home theatre systems. These variations include combinations of either 5 x flat 
ESL panels and a subwoofer or 5 x CCL pods (40mm) and subwoofer.  
 
The 5 x flat ESL panels vary in size from heights of 1800mm, 1500mm, 1200mm, 600mm and 380mm. The creation of this range 
of prototypes was critical in proving the technology as well as being used for demonstration purposes to CE customers. 
 
The Company has developed a system which is considered to be a high performance micro-system. The system comprises of 5 
CCL pods that are only 40mm in diameter. These are then tuned with the Company's Hybrid Acoustic Filters . The 
accompanying subwoofer also offers a considerable advantage in that it is significantly smaller in size than comparable products 
of equivalent performance. This combination is a major technical achievement in this product segment and provides the basis for 
differentiating the performance of Company's products from all other manufacturers of micro-systems. 
 
 
  Immersion Technologies International Plc 
 
Annual report and financial statements for the period ended 30 June 2007 
 
 
 
 6
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
OUTLOOK 
 
Having now established the manufacturing facility in Nanjing, the Group is better able to provide a significantly enhanced level of 
service. Customers are increasingly seeking an end to end solution with design, development and manufacture being the key 
elements to a successful partnership. Our experience with Nakamichi has shown the importance of backing up technical 
expertise with appropriate infrastructure. We intend to replicate this with other customers in the future. 
 
In addition to this combination of technical development with manufacturing capability, the Group has established a sales office in 
Singapore which is a base of many of the world's leading CEs. The Company will recruit a senior sales executive in order to 
expedite the sale process with new and existing customers.  
 
The directors are therefore excited about the prospects for the Company and would like to take the opportunity to thank the 
shareholders for their support. 
 
 
 
Greg Turnidge 
CHAIRMAN 
28 December 2007 