 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
Richard Nichols
Chief Executive
Overview
T
he year began with weak economic
conditions, exacerbated by the uncertainties
created by the Iraq conflict. However, as the
year progressed we started to see greater
stability in our markets with gross income in
the second half broadly consistent with both
the first half of this financial year and the
second half of last year. Similarly, operating
profits (before goodwill and exceptional items)
in the second half were broadly consistent with
the first half. Whilst we saw the beginning of
an improvement in the global economic
climate and increasing investor confidence 
in the second half of the year, this did not
immediately translate into increased levels 
of corporate activity and marketing spend, 
the two key drivers of our business. Indeed the
second half proved patchy with no significant
or sustained improvement in trading and we
experienced six months of unpredictable peaks
and troughs across a number of businesses,
illustrating the lack of visibility our sector is
continuing to experience.
Despite this, the market leading positions
enjoyed by our businesses and continued
management of our cost base have enabled 
us to deliver operating margins close to
double-digit as well as very strong operating
cash flows (both before goodwill and
exceptional items).
The financial year ended with signs of greater
momentum with levels of general corporate
activity increasing, albeit from a very low base,
combined with a growing level of enquiries.
Similarly, our marketing services businesses
have reported a strong pick up in enquiry 
levels since the beginning of the calendar 
year. This trend has continued into the first 
few weeks of the new financial year, although 
it is clear this momentum is still somewhat
fragile. Our key issue remains the lack of
visibility looking forward and hence any
certainty as to whether this momentum will 
be sustained. However, with the business in
good shape and given the current high level 
of operational gearing, we should see profits,
margins and cash generation improve as
market conditions improve.
Financial review
Gross income for the year ended 29 February
2004 fell 4% to  154.0 million. Operating profit
(before goodwill and exceptional items) was
 14.6 million, 25% lower than last year. 
Operating margins (before goodwill and
exceptional items) were inevitably impacted by
the weakness in gross income but at 9.5%
reflect our proactive approach to the cost base
and the success of the restructuring programmes
undertaken during the year. Profit before tax
(before goodwill and exceptional items) reduced
by just under one-third to  11.6 million.
Our financial performance has stabilised, with
gross income of  77.1 million in the second
half of the year being broadly consistent with
the  76.9 million generated in the first half of
the year and the  77.7 million in the second
half of last year. Similarly, operating profit was
 7.2 million in the second half of the year
under review, in line with the  7.4 million
recorded in the first half. 
The Group is financially strong. Our businesses
generated operating cashflows (before goodwill
and exceptional items) of  18.4 million,
interest cover (before goodwill and exceptional
items) was five times and significant headroom
exists between the level of net debt at year
end of  52.1 million and the  92 million of
committed medium term bank facilities that
we currently have in place (which now extend
to March 2007). The successful  27.7 million
capital raising in August 2003 significantly
improved our financial strength and has
enabled us to manage comfortably the earn-
out commitments from our past acquisitions.
Since February 2002, 92% of these have been
settled, with the balance scheduled over the
next three years.
Operational strength
As well as our financial strength, operationally
our businesses are also in very good shape and
are well positioned to benefit strongly when
markets finally improve. Our global, blue-chip
client base and the increasing length and
depth of relationships with them, often at
board level, demonstrates and supports
Incepta's market leading positions. We now
advise 3,500 organisations and act for 17 of
the top 20 global brands. Our client list includes
over one-quarter of the Fortune 500, over half
of the Eurotop 300, and over two-thirds of
each of the FTSE 100 and the DAX 30. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW INCEPTA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004
WITH THE BUSINESS IN GOOD SHAPE AND GIVEN 
THE CURRENT HIGH LEVEL OF OPERATIONAL
GEARING, WE SHOULD SEE PROFITS, MARGINS 
AND CASH GENERATION IMPROVE AS MARKET
CONDITIONS IMPROVE. 09
During the year our businesses have received 55
major industry awards and 29 commendations
worldwide. Our awards include UK PR Agency
of the Year from both PR Week and Marketing
magazines for The RED Consultancy, UK Market
Research Agency of the Year for Incepta
Marketing Intelligence and Incepta Online has
been ranked No.1 new media agency in the
UK by Campaign magazine. 
Marketing Services
The Marketing Services division has performed
extremely well in broadly flat markets
demonstrating its resilience and the strength 
of our brands in this sector. Gross income 
was  56.2 million, in line with the prior year.
This division accounted for over one-third of
the Group's gross income and generated just
over half of our operating profits (before
goodwill and exceptional items).
Whilst there is continuing evidence of the
trend for media spend to migrate from
traditional consumer advertising to more
focussed and targetable  below-the-line'
activities such as sales promotion, direct
marketing and sponsorship, clients' 
marketing budgets have inevitably been
impacted by the difficult economic climate
during the year. We are also seeing the
growing role of procurement departments 
in the buying decisions of our clients. 
Despite these pressures, the reduction in
Marketing Services' operating margins to
13.2% (before goodwill and exceptional 
items) partially reflects the weak first half
performance from Citigate Broad Street in 
the US. Without that impact, operating
margins would have remained very robust 
at 16.2%.
Dynamo, Finex and The RED Consultancy
performed well throughout the year with new
client projects for Marks & Spencer, the DVLA,
BAA, Hyundai and Sainsbury's Bank amongst
others. The new calendar year has started
strongly with increased levels of pitching activity
and recent client wins include Sainsbury's
promotional activity linked to the Euro 2004
football championship, Jacobs and 
Lever Faberg . 
Incepta Marketing Intelligence, recently 
formed from the merger of DVL Smith and
Hauck Research, recovered well from a difficult
first quarter and started to work successfully
with clients such as Barclaycard, Aventis, 
Tate & Lyle, ASDA and McKinsey & Co. 
Our two leading sponsorship consultancies, 
Karen Earl and Redmandarin, continue to act 
for existing clients such as, The Royal Bank 
of Scotland, Coca-Cola, Philips, Orange and
Siemens as well as winning new clients, 
Honda UK, npower and Easynet. Park Avenue,
our creative brand communications agency 
in the UK, enjoyed a strong year bringing brands
to life around the world for companies
including BT; Orange; British Airways, acting 
as lead communications agency for the global
farewell to Concorde; and a major event 
to celebrate the formation of a major new
German banking group, HSH Nordbank, 
in cooperation with Citigate SEA.
Citigate Broad Street, Incepta's New York
based specialist communications business, 
saw a significant pick up in gross income 
in the second half. It has been involved in 
a number of significant projects, including 
the JPMorganChase/Bank One merger and 
the opening of the Time Warner Centre in 
New York and achieved a break-even position
for the second half.
Incepta Online, our group of digital
communications agencies, had a strong year
with new client wins including Canon, SKY,
the BBC, Hogg Robinson, Cisco, Lords, and 
XL Capital Assurance. Over the last twelve
months we have strengthened our market
leading position whilst growing our services
and offerings to the digital communications
market. We are well placed to take advantage
of the continued and increasingly rapid
expansion of the digital sector that we foresee
over the coming twelve months driven by
corporate marketers looking to take advantage
of the strong returns businesses can experience
through the effective exploitation of digital
communications.
Financial & Corporate Communications
Gross income in the Financial & Corporate
Communications division decreased 6% 
to  77.0 million. The reduction in operating
margins in the division to 6.1% (before goodwill
and exceptional items) reflects the lower level
of corporate activity, particularly in the second
half of the year, but also the initial trading
losses at Citigate Global Intelligence (CGI).
Without the impact of CGI, operating margins
would have been just under 10%. 
Our Financial & Corporate Communications
businesses, trading globally under the Citigate
brand, continue to be underpinned by their
significant retained client base with new clients
during the year including T-Mobile, Telewest,
Iberdrola, Kwik-Fit, Halfords, Whitbread and
China Life. However, corporate activity in
world markets remained subdued during the
year with total transaction levels in the second
half lower than the first half. 
INCEPTA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004  CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW
Sector analysis of top 250 clients
Technology 9%
Transport 6%
Telecoms 6%
Utilities 2%
Banking 8%
Construction 1%
Business services 3%
Other financial 15%
Government 4%
Insurance 3%
Retail/Consumer 10%
Pharmaceutical 8%
Media 6%
Manufacturing 19%
Percentage of clients in leading indices
68%
67%
52%
28%
FTSE 100
DAX 30
Eurotop 300
Fortune 500